ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U1	And now, almost ten hours after the beginning of today's session and twelve hours after Question Time, we only reach the third item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the flag law of the ship and the ship's registers law and the Income Tax Act and related amendments to other laws and other laws, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Mr Sven Sester, President of the Economic Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We still have a clear freshness here on the floor and in the hall among all those who are still able to endure today. This important draft bears a beautiful number of 100, and it has not only a beautiful number, but it is also a bill that actually increases Estonia's competitiveness, giving the opportunity to encourage the arrival of merchant ships under the Estonian flag by means of legislative amendments. I would point out that essentially the last cargo ship left the Estonian flag in 2014. The most important amendment we made was, let's say, one stage of this at the beginning of 2019, we passed the Act at the end of the previous term of office of the Riigikogu, and today we are processing the feedback from the state aid permit procedure in connection with this adopted law. In other words, as a result of the law adopted at the beginning of last year, Estonia sent a State aid permit application to the European Commission, and at the end of last year it was found that a State aid authorisation came from the European Commission. We have passed the first reading, I will no longer go on to describe in detail everything that was requested in this application for authorisation, because it was at first reading. But we are so far away today that, with regard to obtaining the permit, we need to make certain technical improvements, and that is what we have begun to do. The draft law was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 21 October, as the Honorable Speaker said. This is the second reading of the draft law amending the law on the flag law and the ship's registers and the Income Tax Act and related amendments to other laws and other laws. And since there were several other laws here, indeed, it concerns different laws that are being amended to improve our competitiveness. To be more specific, the draft amends the flag law of the ship and the Ship Registers Act, the Income Tax Act and, as I said, it follows from the feedback received from the European Commission during the informal procedure of the application for an Estonian State aid permit, according to which Estonian laws are not yet fully in line with the Maritime State Aid Guidelines of the European Union. Our aim is to bring the laws into line with the State Aid Guidelines and with the European Commission's previous decision-making practice concerning similar applications for State aid authorisations. The tax credit for shipping provided for in the Act has been adopted, i.e. the basic conditions for the special tax regime will not be changed, only the individual conditions will be amended and the eligible activities within the meaning of State aid will be specified. Now, the first reading of this same draft 100 took place on 13 November last year. The deadline for submitting amendments was 27 November at 5.15 p.m. By this time, no members of the Riigikogu, no political group or committees came forward with separate amendments. However, they sent their opinion to the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Logistics and Transit Association and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which has also been the principal ministry in the process of handling this bill. Now, as far as the Logistics and Transit Association proposal is concerned, it specifically concerns the amendment of the Commercial Maritime Law and its inclusion in the draft. The Ministry of Economic Affairs supported the Logistics and Transit Association's proposal to amend the Commercial Shipping Act in order to solve the problem of VATing transactions. It was a question of reviewing the concept and content of the Charter Treaty, and the MKM submitted a proposal to the lead committee, which has been adjusted in the technical terms compared to the Association's own proposal, but indeed only in the terms of the norm, and this is specifically Amendment 5. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft twice in preparation for the second reading, the first on 21 January and the second on 27 January. The Commission was invited both by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications as the leading ministry and by the Ministry of Finance, whose competence is precisely the context of the State Aid Authorisation, and, of course, by the representatives of the Maritime Administration, who have always been present when matters concerning the flag law of the ship are addressed. At the meeting of the Commission on 21 January, the members of the Commission received an overview of the state of play of the process of bringing ships under the Estonian flag and of the development of the maritime economy and the amendments were discussed. At the meeting of the Commission on 21 and 27 January, the inaccuracies in the authorisation of State aid issued by the European Commission and the need to improve them were discussed. I would point out that, if the European Commission sent Estonia a State aid permit, it is possible to grant State aid because if you make a tax credit to an undertaking, it is essentially State aid, then there were certain technical inaccuracies in that permit itself, which Estonia has pointed out. During the debate in the Commission, we have come to the conclusion that these inaccuracies are technical. They do not affect our internal regulation and progress within the country, which was confirmed to us by all parties in this "intra-Estonian consortium," the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Maritime Administration, etc., but we also want everything to be correct and that the State aid permit and our law comply with their content and definitions. We gave the Commission the task of asking our institutions to ask the European Commission for more precise improvements, which would be necessary to make it correct. However, once again, all the parties stressed that these improvements did not affect the draft and amendments to be dealt with. As a result of the consultation, it was considered that the European Commission should be formally requested to improve the inaccuracies in its decisions on State aid to maritime transport. According to the information I know, MKM will send a date tomorrow, but by looking at the date, one could say that today, the European Commission is already on the way to the list of these technical inaccuracies, and the Vice Chancellor will sign it, and we hope that it will come back from Europe in the near future. But we've basically been granted permission. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to make seven amendments to the draft, all of which were submitted to the Commission by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. this time it was as I said that the political groups and the members of the Riigikogu did not give separate inputs, and these seven amendments are also on the table today. In addition, the draft passed the translation between the two readings and was subject to technical and linguistic changes, which in no case alter the content of the draft. All seven amendments, as I said, are proposals from the commission, all of which received consensus from the Commission. Finally, the Committee on Economic Affairs decided to send the draft to second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 29 January and to propose that the second reading be terminated. This decision was also consensual, regardless of the party to which one or the other member of the people belonged. Everyone was interested in getting so far that at some point the ships would come under the Estonian flag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U3	Thank you. There are also questions for the rapporteur. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U4	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! I'm gonna ask you again how it is with this further order. If the issue of State aid is still under way or the clarification in the context of State aid is still ongoing, will this draft go to the third reading in the Commission's view before any specific clarification has come from the European direction, or will the clarification be awaited and then it will come to the third reading in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U5	Yes, thank you for that question. This issue was also under discussion in the Commission, and, as the Commission sums up, we find it again several times over, that we must always take into account that, when the second reading is closed, there is, in fact, no other amendment to this particular draft. Even if there is a reason for this later, there will be no chance. The law doesn't allow that. Then the law should be reopened. The Commission had to be convinced of this, too, I am thinking of the Committee on Economic Affairs, that if it comes to second reading with the draft, as we are here today, then there will be no further possible changes. They could mainly come from the European Commission through a State aid authorisation. Indeed, this was confirmed by all the parties who have been in contact with the European Commission - the various ministries and the Maritime Administration - that these are technical inaccuracies, which the Commission is specifically advised to correct. The Commission has already given, well, I don't know, an informal signal that yes, they agree that these are technical inaccuracies. In principle, the Commission found that it was going to third reading, because there is no difference between second and third readings anyway. All parties also confirmed that today's State aid authorisation from the European Commission is already a clear basis for national legislation. So the short answer is as follows: it is very likely that the Committee on Economic Affairs will send this draft to third reading and vote on the adoption of the law at one of its subsequent meetings.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U6	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There seems to be no wish for negotiations. Let us then go to the examination of the amendments. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment is also from the Committee on Economic Affairs, and the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The third proposal is again from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the proposal of the lead committee: take full account. The fourth proposal has also been put forward by the Committee on Economic Affairs, like the rest of them, to take full account of the Commission's proposal. The fifth proposal, the lead committee, would like to take this fully into account. Amendment 6, proposal by the commission: take full account. And the seventh amendment, the proposal of the commission: take full account. We have examined the amendments and the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 100. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U7	We now come to the fourth item on today's agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on liquid fuel initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask the Minister of Economy and Infrastructure, Taavi Aasa, to serve as a waitress for the speaker. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U8	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! It is my task to report to you the draft law amending the Law on liquid fuel, which comes from the Renewable Energy Directive, which requires Member States to ensure that in the transport sector, 10% of the fuel produced from renewable sources, or bio-component, is used in 2020. Estonia has taken over this commitment by the Liquid Fuel Act and according to it, since May 2018 suppliers of liquid fuel have been obliged to include a biocomponent in the permitted motor gasoline or diesel fuel. From 2019 onwards, this obligation can also be met by statistics. The market has handled this commitment well in Estonia and the development of the market favours making the obligation more flexible. It is therefore also time to review the principles of compliance and consequently the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, in cooperation with fuel suppliers, has prepared a draft law amending the Liquid Fuel Act. The draft law amending the Law on Liquid Fuels aims to make the obligation to add a bio-component to fossil biofuels more flexible from 2020 onwards and to increase the transparency of trade in biomethane, bio-component and renewable energy statistics by creating a separate electronic database. In short, changes. First, the obligation to include a bio-component is currently to be met on a monthly basis, but starting from the second half of this year, the obligation can be fulfilled on a half-yearly basis and starting from 2021 on an annual basis. From 2022, the commitment requirement will fall to 7.5%, which is because we will reduce the share of first-generation biofuels. In 2028 the commitment will increase to 8.5%. This is because Estonia's capacity to produce biomethane is increasing. The obligation can also be fulfilled by electricity used in road transport. Fourthly, a digital trading platform will be set up to ensure the transparency of trade in biomethane, electricity and biofuel statistics. Fifthly, the share of biofuels produced from food and crops used to meet the target will be progressively reduced to a minimum from 2022. And by the sixth, the necessary regulation will be put in place to add to fossil fuel a quantity of biofuel component corresponding to consumer demand, directly in the excise warehouse. All of this makes the implementation of the directive transposed by Estonia more flexible. I ask for your support.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U9	Thank you. Any questions for the Minister? Thank you, Minister, there are no questions for you. And now I would like to ask Mikhail Korb, member of the Economic Affairs Committee, to speak here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U10	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The Commission discussed this draft at its meeting on 20 January. The debate was serious and quite a few things came from the Minister. It discussed how statistics are to be calculated on the basis of whether they can be done electronically and whether they are to take place on a yearly basis or otherwise. The Ministry explained that statistics from 2021 will be counted on an annual basis. The possibility was discussed whether fuel would be replaced or whether some companies would produce biofuels themselves. The Ministry stated that today in Estonia one company is able to produce biofuels itself. It was also discussed how the new registration system will function. It was also given competent answers and promised that the system would be operational by autumn. They were talking about fine rates, they're getting pretty high. As statistics are calculated differently, not by month, but by year, there has also been a proportional increase in the amount of the fine. The production capacity of biomethane was discussed. The Ministry said that there are two factories where it is currently being produced and that another plant should be completed by summer. The deadline for the entry into force of the Act was discussed. It turned out that, by 1 March, the law would not have come into force, i.e. the law would not enter into force on 1 March, obviously the deadline would have to be moved by a month. It was also mentioned that this draft had been negotiated with market participants. Finally, a consensual proposal was made to conclude the first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U11	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you very much. Proposal by the Governing Commission... Yes, indeed, does anyone wish to negotiate? It seems that there is no wish for negotiation either. In that case, the proposal of the commission is to close the first reading of draft 126. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 12 February at 5.15 p.m. I thank all the brave ones who have endured to the end! The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 01.01.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U12	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let's start our three-day briefing. Today's briefing will be attended by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Taavi Aas, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, and Riina Solman, Minister of Population. But first, let's do the presence check. There are 31 members of the Riigikogu and there are no 70 members. I'll show you the Question Time procedure. First, members of the registered Riigikogu can ask the question, then the questioner gets the opportunity to ask an additional question and another member of the Riigikogu from the hall. There are two minutes to ask the question, and the question has to fit into that two minutes, not go over as usual. In the previous composition and earlier, the microphone was turned off quite cruelly when the time was exceeded. We still haven't practiced it. But if it still doesn't fit in, consider that the fewer questions you can ask, so stay in two minutes. There are three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U13	I would ask you to first ask the first question in Indrek Saarel and to be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! It is no secret that, quite recently, you had a completely different view of the compulsory nature of the second pillar of the pension, contrary to what you represent as the head of the current government, supporting the dismantling of the second pillar of the pension that we have in the Chamber of the Riigikogu this afternoon in front of your vote of confidence. Yesterday, among other things, this wonderful reminder of recent history also spread on the Internet, where we together nicely on 4 October 2018, if I remember correctly, at a government press conference on this subject, we unanimously stated one after the other that a mandatory second pillar of pensions is essential for people to receive a decent pension in the future. Among other things, you said there that, without the compulsory second pillar, pensions will be lower in the future. It seems to me that, after all the long discussions that we have had in this Chamber with you, it is unlikely that I will be able to talk you out of it today, but I would like to understand, and I think, not only I, but many people in Estonia and also future generations would probably want to understand, and by looking at or listening to this verbatim, this is perhaps possible, which has been the arguments that have led you to think in contrast over the last few months about what our pension system should be. Who are the experts on whose arguments do you rely?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U15	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you for that question. Well, I saw that video on social media a lot last night, too. First of all, this fundamental dispute that was going on, you are right, in the second half of 2018, was about whether or not the second pension pillar would lose completely. And I still think I don't think it has to be abolished. That was at the heart of the argument. Now, you're bringing in that video that I said there, did I change my positions? I certainly continue to think that pension collection is necessary, it is reasonable to ensure that people can cope better in retirement. I thought so then, and I am of the same conviction here today, in Question Time. The government's position on reforming the pension pillar is that it makes the pension system more flexible, but also protects the pension collector, and which I think is very important, motivates the various funds to offer better productivity. As a result of the reform, people have greater freedom to use the money collected and to secure their retirement. I certainly also stand for the dignified old age of the Estonian people to be one of the great priorities of this government, and this has been demonstrated by our actions. It is true that, in the previous government too, we have, to some extent, changed the regulation of the second pension pillar in order to reduce fund charges and make some other changes. It certainly helped to make the funds more productive. So the answer to you is that this dispute at the time was whether the second pillar would be abolished. As a result of the formation of the coalition, a compromise has been reached, it will not be abolished, it will become voluntary. Anyone who wishes can continue in the second pension pillar, and I believe, on better terms than before. But if you want to use your money differently, that's your chance. So it becomes a volunteer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U16	Specific question, Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U17	Thank you for your answer. Dear George Ratas! If I understand correctly now, we continue to agree that pensions will be lower in the future without the second pension pillar. The experts' estimate is that they could be 30% lower, which means that it will certainly be very difficult to cope with such a pension in the future. This is the choice we may be faced with in a while. Many people who now withdraw money in good faith that they will be able to invest it may not be able to invest well, or the money will be spent before it becomes an investment. In the future, they are likely to have a problem with how they cope on a daily basis. What's your opinion? I understand we're barely in the middle of a decision in a couple of decades, but I don't know. These young people, who are on the balcony of this hall, will have to begin to make substantial choices of value. What's your recommendation? Should they tell those people who couldn't cope in the future because they took out the money and that money was spent, that it was your risk, that it was your mistake, now see for yourself how you can? Or should the state take into account that it has mechanisms to help these people? What is the cost of creating such mechanisms and how can these mechanisms be created? What is your recommendation, what choice should it be?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U18	Thank you. Well, as a skilled politician, you paint the picture you want to see. But that's not the picture. This picture is exactly such that anyone wishing to Moreover, this reform provides an opportunity for those people who did not join in 2001 because then they were not joined by the coercion, but that accession was voluntary in 1982 or earlier, to join the second pillar. So I don't understand at all this hysteria that reading about today in 30 years' time or 20 years' time, or how you said people no longer have incomes. People make, I'm absolutely convinced, rational decisions about saving and collecting money. I believe in it. I think what one person or another in particular does is his own decision. You're saying that after a certain period of time, in x years, pensions are going to be about 30% smaller because they're coming out of the second pillar. Well, that's a very speculative claim: to claim something that happens, I don't know, 15, 20 or 30 years from now. It's very difficult to predict. In fact, I think that we still have to come back to how to ensure that the first pension pillar makes a greater contribution to pensions. There's not a lot of options here. These are political choices. Yes, that largely means implementing an extraordinary pension increase. I am pleased that this year there will be an extraordinary pension increase over long and long years. Now, what you're saying is that I'm with you guys, I understand that this is what you said was in one boat, believing that pensions without the second pillar will become smaller or shrinking. As I said, point one: no one has to leave the second pillar. Very many people will have the opportunity to join the second pillar, but there will certainly be those who see other investment opportunities. And I think, as I said, people are making rational decisions in any case. So, no matter how much you want, I'm not going on the same boat as you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U19	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U20	Thank you. It seems to me here from your answers that your memory needs to be refreshed a little. 'I don't think it's right that we are currently changing the system created by the state with the second pillar, where the state is contributing two-thirds and the person one-third. " It is not a matter of whether the pillar is lost or not lost. And yes, you thought correctly, those are your words, spoken on 1 November 2018. In the same way, before the elections, you said clearly, rock-proofly, that you will not see or do government cooperation with the EKRE. You said that the average pension would remain exempt, yet your government became the first to tax the average pension in Estonia. You said that there was no need to change the pension pillars, but yet now you have made pension pillars change the most important draft of your government, so even the government's trust is at stake. You have given up, more or less, all the most important electoral promises you asked for a human mandate. And the question is simple: what happened to the George Ratas we saw before the election?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U21	Thank you very much, Mr Clothes, for these very interesting questions. First of all, the accusation you have basically sounded a little different on Indrek Island and I answered him. In the debate at the time, the focus was very strongly on whether or not to lose the second pillar. Now, this voluntary aspect you're reading out of my quote, we see that in today's state, it has changed quite a bit. In time, it has become much longer, and it was also the wish of the Chancellor of Justice, which was taken into account. However, as I replied to the previous questioner, the previous coalition has already made several changes to the regulation of the second pension pillar. The investment restrictions on pension funds were changed, the State's intervention in risk-taking was reduced, the restrictions on taking stock risk were removed, meaning that pension funds could also invest in 100% of the shares. Pension funds will also be allowed to make larger amounts of real estate investment and other non-market and less liquid investments which, taking into account the remote horizon of pension funds, are compatible with their investment portfolio. These changes will certainly also support Estonia's investments. I also said to Mr Indrek Saare that it was the decision of the previous coalition that pension fund management fees should be reduced. The new ceiling for the second pillar pension funds was set at 1.2% instead of the current 2% and therefore the average government fee fell. This is estimated at 0.62% in 2019. Now, all your accusations here before the election were allowed and all that crazy and bad. You brought in an average pension and said it would go under tax. I say this way, the pension is always subject to tax. The question is, what percentage are those pensioners who receive more than the minimum income tax-free pension. The truth is that we have raised the tax-free minimum to EUR 500. You will probably remember those times when there were big disputes, whether to raise it to 10 euros or less or more, which would give people a few euros to win. He took a pretty strong step, and I think the right one. But we have also increased the pension by adding up the amount resulting from indexation and the amount of extraordinary pension increases. The biggest pension increase in the last 12 years will happen and, of course, we are pleased about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U22	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U23	Next, Kaja Kallas asks and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U24	Good George, I have a very simple question. The question is, whose words are these? Firstly, 'In our ageing society, it is certainly necessary to collect pensions in advance, otherwise we will have to significantly increase the tax burden on future generations, even in order to maintain the current pay-to-pension ratio. Therefore, the second pension pillar must definitely be maintained as part of a public pension. " Second,'making the savings pension voluntary would mean that our people should be prepared to accept lower pensions in the future. Since old-age pensions are certainly not high enough at the moment and a large proportion of our elderly live in relative poverty, the proposals leading to this reduction are not justified. The possibility of voluntary collection in the third pillar already exists for the current working people'. Thirdly, 'I do not think it right that we are currently changing the system created by the state with the second pillar, where the state contributes two thirds and the person one third. " Fourthly,'my opinion is that the second pillar of pension must continue. The third is for those who are very willing to contribute.' The question is simple: whose words are these?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U25	Thank you very much for this question. Well, it is still here in the Riigikogu that whoever has the sequel asks his question, despite the fact that this has been asked in the past. But I'm going to answer all four episodes of these issues you've been screaming about. First of all, I don't know any bill that would separate the second pension pillar from the pension system. The second pension pillar is also, on a voluntary basis, if the Riigikogu so decides, part of the pension system No, you're not! That's completely wrong. Now, you most likely mentioned the question of old-age pension in my quote. As I replied to Mr. Clothes and Mr. Island, this is indeed the highest pension increase in the last 12 years. For no reason, neither the Centre Party nor the Government led by the Reform Party have managed to make an emergency pension increase over the last 12 years. If my memory doesn't deceive me, the last extraordinary pension increase was done when Jaak Aab held the office of Minister of Social Affairs. Looking at the rise in the average old-age pension this year, it can safely be said that it will be 540 euros per year. EUR 540 per year! Such a very heavy adjustment means that those who receive an average old-age pension will receive an additional pension per year. I think this is not a bad step, but it is certainly not a sufficient step. One of the priorities of the current government coalition is indeed to increase old-age pensions in addition to indexation. One step we have taken, and certainly these debates must continue in the coming years when discussing the state budget and the state budget strategy. Now this sentence that my quote was that the state puts two thirds and the person puts one third. I will answer you in the same way as the first point: it will not change. Anyone who wants to continue to contribute to the second pillar can do so. The foundations of the second pillar will not be changed, nor will they be changed for those who now want to join the second pillar. As we know, this limit goes from the year of birth in 1982.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U26	Echo Kallas, a more specific question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U27	Thank you. First of all, I don't need to be patronized. I've been here since the beginning, and I heard very well other people's questions. I thought I was very clear. I said twice the question to which I wanted an answer, and that was the question whose words it was. You didn't answer that, you told me your story. I will answer you: those are the words of George Ratas. And by the way, Jüri Ratas has said that I hope that you are not in any way in two persons, even though you like to talk about yourself in a third person, that the second pension pillar must continue in its current form. The story you're all saying about these changes, that it was a completely different story at the time, that's not true. The words you said then, and the words you are saying today, are radically contradictory. And if you don't remember, we can give you these quotes along with the sources, these are Jüri Ratas's words. And I'm asking why you're not standing behind your words. Why do you go ahead with the demolition if you know what it's gonna bring with it? Moreover, how has it happened that what you fought against before the elections has become such an important issue for you that you are linking your government's trust with it? This is the most important draft that your government will ever push through during its term of office and push through with force.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U28	Thank you very much for this question. I think I said two times in answer to the previous question that those are my words. The question is whether you wanted to hear it or not. I will not write questions to any honourable members of the Riigikogu. And honourable members of the Riigikogu, do not write to me how I have to respond. I certainly don't always give the kind of answer the opposition wants to hear. That makes sense. And the political debate, I think, should be in the Chamber, it is sensible and certainly constructive. Now your question: why? That is what I answered at length when I answered the previous question. You're saying this is the most important bill, so it's even linked to a matter of trust. Why is the government doing this? The coalition agreement is, I think, always a set of common goals. There are certainly some points that the partners put into the coalition agreement with greater initiative, with greater enthusiasm than other coalition partners view them, but ultimately it is a common document and common goals that the coalition wants to implement. That is the case with this point. The coalition had no intention of linking the item on the agenda of today's Riigikogu with the question of trust. Our sincere plan was to discuss it in the Riigikogu, and discuss it in three readings, as provided for by the Riigikogu's Law on Home and Rules of Procedure. It is true that if amendments had to be tabled to the commission of directors, I hope that these amendments will not be wrong in the 950, namely 957. Most of them, of course, came from the opposition. In front of it, the opposition announced that everything must be done, using all kinds of tools, so that this law could not be passed by the Riigikogu under any circumstances. They're trying to stop it. Well, I don't know the concrete fact that you would have voted on these 957 proposals in ten-minute breaks, but with a little political experience, I probably thought that this would be the case. What was that all about? This would have meant that the work of the honourable Riigikogu would have stopped for seven days because of taking these breaks alone. Seven days! And since the Riigikogu does not work around the clock every day of the week, it would have meant weeks. The work of the Riigikogu would then only be to take breaks, get out of this hall and get in here. In that case, I do not see any substantive debate, which you have, as you have raised, when you tabled your amendments. This was the reason why the government linked this matter of trust: to be able to hold a substantive debate here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U29	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Of course, the proverb doesn't say, "The man gives the floor, the man takes the floor. ' This basically illustrates my good colleague's previous question. However, while I myself have some government experience and political experience, I must say that I do not remember any debate on how our future pension could be smaller. It has always been discussed that our pensions for the future should be higher, and there has always been an attempt to talk about a minimum level of 40% of the average wage. On this draft, all experts, both international and national, have made it clear that our system is not on one foot. This system is a whole, composed of several pillars. The first and second pillars will certainly guarantee people a higher pension in the future. It is therefore completely unclear why the second pillar needs to be demolished. By dismantling, I mean that when this system was created, the people who joined had the knowledge that they, as well as everyone else who joins this pillar, would have the opportunity to use this money when they retire or leave the labour market. This is not being implemented in this way at the moment, with the total disregard being given to the extent that it worsens the situation of those who remain in the second pillar. Both mathematical calculations and world practice show that the system should not be destroyed in this way. Tell me, Prime Minister, why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U31	Thank you for your question. There were several questions on this one issue, I will of course try to answer. You said that no proposals were ever made to reduce pensions in any way. Well, I understand that political rhetoric. I remember the period before the elections of the Riigikogu in 2019. If I am not mistaken, this was an interview by Kaja Kallas, President of the Reform Party, for a national broadcasting journalist who is still working there. In this interview, I thought it was about social tax disappearing. You yourself have worked in this area and you are well aware that 20% of the social tax goes to pensions and 13% to health insurance. This is a direct proposal for a very sharp reduction in pensions. And not only does it mean that access to medical care may be reduced. True, it has not yet reached the agreement of the government coalition, but it cannot be ruled out. This Riigikogu is still three years away and this platform, or their thoughts, has come to light. You will also remember the years when the state was unable to index at the maximum rate, and also the years when it was possible to index, if I am not mistaken, by one kroon, not by one euro, but by one kroon. One crown at a time! In view of the increase in the cost of living at that time, it certainly did not increase pensions. But now, good questioner, I come back to your question and I say: yes, I really think that the EUR 45 pension increase in April this year is important. This is an important step, but it is also a very signicant step. This is a step with a very strong political sign, which signals that today's government, today's coalition, wants to make an effort to increase the pension in addition to indexation for those who have done their job. It has been ironed that it is 7 euros, some have said just that I have seen large social media campaigns, that growth is only 1 euro and 40 cents. One cent, but we have a principle: if we are able to give our state budget to those people who deserve it, there is no way to say that Estonian pensions are high, just to the base part, to that part of the first pillar, this must be done in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U32	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U33	And the third question on the same subject. Asks Heljo Pikhof and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U34	Thank you. Prime Minister! As we all know, 20% of the social tax goes to the first pillar if a person has not joined the second pillar. Once he joins the second pillar, the first pillar will be 16% and the second pillar will be 4% plus 2% of the person's salary. If we now follow the principle of equal treatment, it can be said that there will certainly be a problematic situation, because people who do not join the second pillar cannot withdraw at the same time that part of the pension corresponding to 4% paid monthly salary for social tax. That's what they didn't know when they decided not to join the second pillar. If they had known this, maybe they would have joined the second pillar, and they would also have the opportunity, if your bill were adopted as a law, to start using 4% before the retirement age. How many people might be affected? I mean, those who haven't joined the second pillar and who don't have the chance to withdraw 4% of their social security contributions before retirement age? If people were allowed to withdraw only 2% paid as an additional contribution, the issue of equal treatment would of course not arise. So it could be possible to withdraw only the 2% of money, not the 4% that the country has placed in the second pillar.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U35	Yes, thank you very much for this very constructive question. It is true that there has been quite a debate about this, let's say, unequal treatment and there are very different opinions. To predict today how it will be tomorrow or in the distant future is very difficult, practically impossible. In fact, the question is how much can be taken out. There is just such data that if you take out so many percent of people, then what does that mean? If the money takes out 20% or 30%, etc. There have also been some surveys and we can rely on them in our assessments. Now, this unequal treatment. I think this is exactly where we want to look at it. There are those who say that when this law becomes a force, unequal treatment begins. And there are a lot of people who say that in fact unequal treatment with regard to the first, second and third pension pillars began 19 years ago, or in 2001. They say the reason is that people had three options, or alternatives, at the time. There were people who had to join in any case, people who were given the opportunity to join, and there were people who were not given the opportunity, whose year of birth was so early that they were told that they could not join. So even then, you can say, unequal treatment began. If we look at the current system, we also see that if a person has a second pillar contract and dies before he retires, the part he has collected will be inherited. If a person only has the first pillar, has not joined the second pillar and dies before retirement, then nothing is inherited. So I can see that this inequality has actually existed since the creation of this system. And I will also tell you once again, Mrs Pikhof, that we do not want to change the system in any way in order to create a mandatory position for people. People will have a voluntary position. Anyone who wishes can always continue to gather in the second pillar, who wishes, can leave.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U36	Heljo Pikhof, the question to be specified. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U37	Soon, perhaps, with regard to today's government, the question will be that perhaps we should also review the regulations on motor insurance and health insurance in order to make them voluntary. After all, young people are not, as a rule, sick, and perhaps only older people join health insurance and those who are traffic hooligans, with motor insurance. But when we talk about whether or not this is inequality, I sense, as a member of the second pillar, that my situation, as well as the situation of others who have joined the second pillar and continue to be in the second pillar, will deteriorate. This voluntaryisation of the second pillar will lead to a reduction in the accumulated assets or a slower increase. It's been pointed out by all the analysts. You also said that people need to be given a free chance to invest themselves, let's say, in different pension funds or wherever. But investing together is always cheaper. And if we look at how many people are now investing in funds, we can see that there are only two to three percent of them. If, for example, we look at Britain's experience, people have already been warned that they have been deceived, and the government has intervened so that people do not invest wherever they are called to invest. My question is, perhaps I repeat this: to what extent does making the second pillar optional lead to a decrease in the value of the assets collected or to a slower increase? Have you thought about that? Analysts have said it does. Are you saying otherwise?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U38	Thank you. First of all, this parallel at the beginning of the question, so that you can then make health insurance voluntary and what else you have brought. You are well aware that our pension system is not just a second pillar. No draft has been brought to your tables and to the hall of the honourable Riigikogu in order to make the entire Estonian pension voluntary. After all, the first pillar is always human. Whoever wishes, as we have confirmed today, can continue to gather into the second pillar. You said, for example, that if you continue to gather in the second pillar, you will lose. I think that in the case of different incomes, the losses and winnings may be different. But I think it is very important how we also guarantee a more dignified pension for current pensioners, a higher pension. These steps need to be taken today. And I think it's very important. Now that we are talking about this reform, it is clear that when the reform starts and some people want to step out of the second pillar, it is the duty of the state to think seriously about what to do with the extraordinary rise in pensions. And I think that's where public funds need to be invested. I told you here before that we wouldn't get our little pensions higher. If we rely only on indexation, pensions will continue to be very much within the limits of the level of subsistence. In fact, I think it is our duty to do our utmost to raise as much pensions as possible from the level of income or relative poverty.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U39	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U40	Thank you. The argument that Kaja Kallas has proposed a'very sharp' reduction in pensions is a rude lie! And even though I'm sure Kaja Kallas will not go along with this current for several weeks now, it would be polite to apologize for it. I repeat, this statement is a rude lie, nothing like that he has said. Secondly, you like to talk about the first pillar, the current old-age pensioners and the exceptional pension increase of EUR 1.40. But you do not say that your government is the first in Estonia's history to tax the average old-age pension, and from next year it will be your pension increase, this extraordinary pension increase, with a negative sign, because when pensions grow again because of the index, people will start paying income tax even more. This is the first government in the history of Estonia to do such a thing, to tax the average pension. There are a lot of pensioners already this year who pay more taxes than this extraordinary pension increase because of your decision. So actually, for a lot of people, it's a big negative sign. I also have a friendly suggestion. So far, by the way, no Prime Minister has been so brazen that he has taken up a statutory pension increase from the index. It's, you know, decorating yourself with strange feathers. The index has not been made by any Prime Minister himself or by his own hands to grow the economy. When you answered my first question, you recalled the draft, which I myself was the leading judge, and that is why I know very well that this draft is...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U41	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U42	...in conflict with this cross. And my question is: what has changed with the pre-election period, when you said exactly the opposite to the present one?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U43	Thank you. First of all, the first part of the question. I don't know, I read the Estonian media. It is based on the business news of 15 October 2018, which states that Kallas explicitly acknowledges that it does not yet have concrete ideas on the sources of cover for the abolition of social tax. But what are we gonna do with this argument? Mr Kruuse asked if there had been such a thing in the past that there had been a reduction in pensions. I replied directly that before the Riigikogu elections, it was a great idea to abolish social tax. Well, luckily that didn't happen. Your accusation at my address is that average pensions will be taxed for the first time. My argument is that pensions have always been subject to tax. In my opinion, it is true that the percentage of people receiving pensions and having to pay income tax on it has, of course, been lower than it is today. And the reason is very simple: pensions have started to grow faster. Now your second claim that I'm decorating myself with foreign feathers. Pensions have started to grow faster, mainly because the Estonian economy is doing well, it is doing well. In my opinion, I have always said in this Chamber of Riigikogu and in meetings with entrepreneurs that their contribution is great. Only yesterday, when they met Estonian major entrepreneurs, they were also thanked for their contribution to the Estonian economy. There's no way I wanted to earn a political point. I never wanted to say that you see, the economy is growing and how well today's government is, let alone the members of the government. No, I have always wanted to emphasise that the tulips have been Estonian entrepreneurs whose risks have succeeded, who are able to ensure record-high employment throughout the ages and, thanks to this, to employ people. It's very important. But I think, Mr. Rõivas, that the government has a certain role to play in supporting the economic environment and, in some places, in activating it. That is what I want to say, and it has been done by both the previous and the current government. Let's take one example: the organization of the same IPOs, which stood for almost 20 years. Almost 20 years! Then it was decided that the Port of Tallinn would go to the stock market, and now it is working for Enefit Green to go to the stock market. This is one example of the desire to activate Estonia's economic life and environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U44	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U45	Question 4, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U46	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! Last week, Mart Helme was the prime minister in charge of the Riigikogu in your place and, among other things, he took the floor to the parliament to comment on the tolerance campaign organised by the Ministry of Social Affairs. It is a campaign that depicts different people, including blind people, whose joy and stamina I personally admire. But before us, Mart Helme said that it was insulting for religious people to be placed in some sort of category of freaks. It was something so disgusting that, frankly, I do not know that I would have heard something like this from a representative of the government here in the Riigikogu before. Worse still, this statement was followed by total silence by other members of the government. No one took the trouble to apologize to the category that is now, of course, devalued by itself, but it was as if it hadn't been, all of a sudden, it was as if everyone had swallowed the sword, no reaction. I guess you can't just let something like this go by in a quiet way. How are you, as Prime Minister, going to make Mart Helme make up for the morally hurt he caused to a lot of people with disabilities by saying last week?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U47	Thank you very much for this question. Members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to ask each member of the government in different ways specifically what one person or another person has said or thought about. I want to say about this campaign that I'm in agreement with the attitude of life that we have to notice. We need to notice the weaker, we need to notice those people who, for some reason, cannot keep up with many. We must support them and we must help them. We must notice all the people of Estonia, no matter what county they live in, or any minority they represent. And I think the point must be that they're all really our people. The country's doing different campaigns. The state calls for a wide range of campaigns to show or notice different people in different areas. The Ministry of Social Affairs campaign you are talking about is entitled 'Everyone is different, but just as many people'. There are a lot of other campaigns that are being carried out, I do not know, by the Rescue Board in the field of food safety, police and border control, etc. I think the country is supposed to be campaigning. The specific question is about this campaign. I think that its assessment must remain in this area, how to say, to decide, to do in this area, because there is, in fact, the highest level of competence. In this case, it is the Ministry or its sub-offices. Public authorities, as I said, are constantly organising various social campaigns to raise awareness of society on important issues and, in the public interest, to influence our people's attitudes and behaviours in such a way that they become more tolerant, tolerant, cohesive. I think these are the important keywords. We've had, I think, quite successful campaigns like this all over Estonia. They have reached the recipients very well, whether they are water-related safety campaigns, more use of seat belt and smoke detectors or improving human health behaviour, as well as the fight against envelope wages.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U48	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, a specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U49	Thank you. Good Prime Minister, I didn't get an answer to my previous question. My question was, how are you going to make Mart Helme make up for the damage he did, the pain or hurt he caused people with disabilities when he called them retards in front of Parliament? That was my question. But my second question, which I now have the opportunity to ask, is actually because I am also the chairman of the Estonian-Israeli parliamentary group. It concerns a subject that I also have very much to live on in recent weeks. The horrors committed against the Jewish people in the last century are likely to be one of the most painful things in history and can never be forgotten. It is remembered, it is remembered, and it is done, among other things, for the reason that we are able to recognize what is bad at the right time. A week ago, on January 23, at the Holocaust Memorial Center in Yad Vashem, Jerusalem, the leaders of many countries gathered. Gathered to confirm with their presence that these countries understood this injustice and recall what happened in the last century. Among the people who represented their country, there was no representative of the Estonian state. We in the Committee on Foreign Affairs will certainly deal with this issue separately. But my question now is how to rule out that Estonia will not be represented at an event of this weight. This must not happen again in 2020. This is not a mistake one country can afford.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U50	Thank you for this question. Of course, I fully agree with you that no one ever has the right to forget these atrocities. As you rightly said, we must remember them, we must always remember these very terrible events, and also because nothing like this will ever happen again. As for the heart of your question, why there was no representative of Estonia at the Memorial Forum in Jerusalem on 23 January, I think that, of course, there could have been our representative. Well, if you ask me, why wasn't there, I don't know how different people were involved with other responsibilities. I was involved in an undertaking in Davos, Switzerland, where the 50th World Economic Forum was held. Estonia has not been there very long, and now it was a great honour for me to be there. That was pretty early last year. I also examined when the State Chancellery found out that there might be a problem that Estonia was not represented in Jerusalem. This invitation came to my knowledge last February to the President of the Republic of Estonia, Kadriorgu. I do not know exactly, but I do know that the Office of the President announced somewhere in the middle of the summer that the President would not be able to participate, and the State Chancellery was approached with this question in the autumn of last year. And then the Davos Economic Forum was already on the calendar, there was an appointment and other preparatory work. Now your question, what do you do to avoid these things in the future? There is no other recipe here, except that simply better and more active information exchange must be between different offices and offices, of course, between people. I am pleased that Riina Solman, Minister of Population, for example, was at a memorial event in Poland on Monday this week, while our Minister of Education and Science participated in a memorial event in the cemetery of Rahumäe in Tallinn. But yes, in answering your questions, I will mention these two points.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U51	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U52	Thank you. Note so much that Davos will reach Israel in about four hours. But your answer began with the sentence that you agree with Keit Pentus regarding World War II. But with his first assessment of the question, you did not agree. Please try again! He asked about the atrocities that happened, not during World War II, but in this Chamber on Wednesday, when the prime minister was on the board. The acting Prime Minister, your closest fellow fighter, placed all minorities not only disabled people, but all minorities, but, as a general rule, people with disabilities here are the most acute issue of freaks. He defended the believers by removing them from that category. Do you agree with Keit Pentus that this was a disgusting statement that is not appropriate for a member of the government, and that this statement must not be forgotten, you must respond to it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U53	Thank you. Well, it's always Jürgen, so either there's a desire to listen to an answer or there's no wish. I gave the answer to Keit Pentus-Rosimethus, but if there's a wish, I can give that answer again. I say once again that no person in Estonian society can be set aside, left behind. We have to support all people. As I said in the answer to the first question, whether people represent any minority or not. You brought in disabled people separately. Of course, these are also what I mean when I say that. And under no circumstances can I agree with such, I do not know, illustrative words about any Estonian people, about any Estonian minority or majority, as you referred to in your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U54	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U55	The next question, in order number five, is Jüri Jaanson and will be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U56	Thank you very much. Prime Minister! I must start by asking for your very clear position on the 'Same People' campaign launched by the Ministry of Social Affairs. Its message is that people of different backgrounds, different needs and different convictions, including those belonging to minority groups, are all full members of society. It is a question of shaping attitudes; it is perhaps not a question of not being so noticeable that it is not possible to see everything. For example, you do not notice people with mental disabilities. It is about shaping attitudes to assess and value differences. Two members of your government have estimated that putting together with others is offensive to the believers. The rest of this group are freaks, including people with disabilities. Interesting is the change in your behavior. In the past, you apologized for your ministerial statements, you did not do so this time, perhaps you did not consider it necessary. I hope I don't misperceive things or the government's attitude towards people with disabilities as full members of society has fundamentally changed, has it? Please state your position on both the campaign of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the statements made by members of your government concerning people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U57	Thank you. If you ask me about this campaign, I think it was a good campaign for the Ministry of Social Affairs. Point one. Point two, if you ask whether any attitudes have changed, then, I don't know, my attitude has always been that Estonia is as strong as the connected Estonian society is, how well Estonian society is united, how well we notice different people. And that's what I want to work on every day. It bothers me a little at this point, I understand, Mr Jaanson, that it does not come directly from your question of wanting to amplify it, that there is some way they want to confront religious people and other minorities. There's no way I can agree with that. Like I said, we have to support all people. When you talk about people with disabilities or other minorities who live here, they are our people. But so are our people religious people. There are many different religions in Estonia and it is good, it is positive when people turn to God, they believe it. I understand what may now occur here: there is perhaps this contrast that we are keeling between believers and other minorities. Under no circumstances should I allow this to be done. Once again, I understand that this is not your idea. You're asking for it because of what's been happening. Now, what else do I want to say about this campaign at the Ministry of Social Affairs? You are asking whether I have changed my views or not. I think that every politician must be responsible for what he says. When it comes to a member of the government, it is always possible for a member of the Riigikogu to question him and, of course, a member of the government must respond. You're asking me specifically what I think of this campaign. Like I said, I think so. At the same time, I also think that we need to make other successful campaigns in the country. I gave your groupmate an example of what the country has done in the area of pretty good targeted campaigns, the message of which has come to people's attention. I also think that we must fight more and more in society to support strong families, families with many children. This is actually a very big problem when we look at our demographic situation. There is nothing to do, it has continued to be negative for years to years, and that is what we need to think about in any case. I understand that the state cannot do anything directly to have three or four or five children in families, but this environment, this attitude can in any case be developed in a positive direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U58	Thank you. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U59	Thank you. I listened very carefully to what was asked of you. I understand that you were not so much asked for an opinion on this campaign as to the position of a member of your government, a member of your government, who replaced you in the Prime Minister's office in this Question Time, on the behaviour of Mart Helme, on his words. You say very nicely that no human can be set aside. However, you know very well that the person who often replaces you here and who plays a very important role in your government says that people with disabilities and other minorities are freaks. From here on he said it in Riigikogu Question Time and has also said it at the Press Conference of the Government of the Republic. The question is very simple: why is Mart Helme still in the position of minister of your government?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U60	Thank you. Now you're going very political. You will first appreciate the way I respond to your co-worker. I think he has the right to judge. When I answered completely along the lines of what Mr. Jaanson asked, I answered completely wrong, after all, Mr. Jaanson says so. Point one. Point two is that I have repeatedly expressed the view that this campaign was important, but I have also stated that I do not believe that we must in any way begin to wedge the religious people and minorities. We can't do that. The end of your reply was a total policy: when the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme will leave the government. The answer to you is very simple: it is very likely that this government will fall if the Reform Party succeeds in coming to the government. Today I see that the government is working, the working climate of the government is good, the government is capable of making important and important decisions. Of course, what could happen is that I'm reading politics wrong. It could happen. But I have a feeling this government isn't going down right now. But yes, today there is a vote of confidence, so theoretically, theoretically! This government may fall today too.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U61	Specific question, Jüri Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U62	Thank you. Prime Minister, thank you for the answer you gave me earlier. But I think a lot of what you told me should actually be addressed to your colleague, a member of the government. I continue to believe that either they themselves or the government must clearly apologise for these statements and explain why they are constantly being spoken of. But I'd like to use the time now for the second question. At its recent session, your government decided not to support the amendment to the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act, which would have highlighted the needs of deaf people to access information in addition to those who have not heard the National Broadcasting Act. I am thinking of the need for a sign language translation in national broadcasting programmes. Despite the fact that the national broadcasting itself does not oppose such a legislative amendment, the government decided not to support the draft. The Ministry of Culture explained very high investment needs. In any event, the Ministry of Social Affairs was not able to justify a negative view at all. I also sent them a separate written question about that. My question is, why does the government refuse to write into the law the need to ensure that deaf people have access to information, even though the need for hearing impaired is highlighted? Why should we hit people with hearing disabilities like two leaves, so that the needs of one group are covered, the other not. Please comment on this a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U63	Thank you for this question and for the opportunity to comment. The way this decision was made certainly does not in any way express the fact that the government does not see the problem of making it available to deaf people who want to watch national broadcasting programmes comfortable. As regards the introduction of sign language services, I would like to say that there was quite a serious debate about this in the government. It became quite technical: how could it be introduced, whether there are enough people who can provide this service? That's what I mean. And at first there was such an agreement that, by spring of this year at the latest, both the Minister of Education and Research and the Minister of Culture in the national broadcasting were primarily talking about subtitles, but I know that for many people subtitles are not really a solution and the desire to receive the service of sign language would be the best way to use subtitles in national broadcasting. I certainly do not rule out that we can come back to the possibility of using sign language in national broadcasting. But yes, I have asked the Minister of Education and Science and the Minister of Culture to give an overview in the spring months of this year, and that is what we will really be discussing again. It is also true what you say that, of course, it is also linked to the financial aspect, i.e. the investment. And if ministers are able to give an overview of this by the beginning of March or April, then we will have discussions on the country's budgetary strategy and this is one way of offering deaf people a better service by monitoring national broadcasting programmes. So we will certainly take this issue seriously and come back to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U64	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U65	The next question, No 6, will be asked by Ivari Padar and answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U66	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! The vote on the government's trust is undoubtedly an option. It is recalled that the situation was 11 years ago, 2009 more or less at the same time as the 2009 supplementary budget vote was held in this Chamber, which was linked to trust. Then there was an analogous situation, as today is: the Minister of Finance was on the board and the Prime Minister was in the box. Andrus Ansip was in the box listening to it. Then there was a debate, there was a vote. And then there was a very clear reason why all of this had to be done quickly. The economy crashed, all forecasts went up, the state had to act quickly to maintain the credibility of the state budget. And today, 11 years later, we can say that all these were the right decisions. All these were the right decisions, and at that time there was a very clear reason why urgent action had to be taken. Today we have a bill with a huge number of open questions. What is the justification for this bill, which concerns 740000 people, concerning the future of the Estonian economy, the future of taxes in the long term, has come out in such a hurry? Sober mind tells us to take time off here and take it easy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U67	Thank you very much. As you rightly said, indeed on 18 February 2009, the government bound the draft on the additional budget of the country for 2009 and the amendment of the laws relating thereto to a matter of trust. In the way you explained this, I agree with you. Your assessment was that it was the right decision. Looking back at it today, I was myself in this Chamber at the opposition, I think it really was necessary to make quick decisions. And, in fact, there has been such a handwriting after that, you can't just pick out this one vote of confidence. For example, on the 28th day of June 2014, the government bound the law on the amendment of the law on funded pensions and the law on state pension insurance and the related amendment of other laws and the law on the amendment of the Income Tax Act, which was numbered 685, with the issue of acceptance before the second reading of the bill. True, the Prime Minister was not Andrus Ansip then, but in Taavi's garment. On the 10th of June, a little less than a year later, in 2015, the government bound the next drafts it initiated to the issue of trust before the second reading of these drafts in the Riigikogu. And now it's very interesting that there were a lot of drafts. First, the draft law amending the Social Tax Act, the Income Tax Act and other laws. Secondly, the draft law amending labour market services and benefits and other laws. And thirdly, the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act and related amendments to other laws. This was a cluster bill for tax changes, which is not a good treatment practice, aimed, among other things, at increasing excise duties on fuel and VAT on accommodation. And the reason for the government was that the opposition made a motion of distrust against Prime Minister Rõvas and used 192 amendments as a staggering tactic. This really was the Government of Taavi Rõivas, no 192 amendments. So you're asking why we're now linking this to a matter of trust. I have already said before that there was no plan to link it, we wanted to discuss it in the way that the home and operating procedures provide for it as a normal procedure. And I completely agree with you on this point that he is not such an extreme or final solution. But that is the reason: 957 amendments. So, who are we? When the garment bound a draft with a question of trust, which had 192 proposals, no 957 is many times more. So in order not to paralyse the work of the Riigikogu, it was reasonable to have a substantive debate today and to link it to a matter of trust.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U68	Ivari Padar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U69	I do not quite agree that you are justifying today's actions on the basis of what has ever happened. It's not very constructive. But let's go to some details. There are a large number of details to which we have not received any answers today. Is it the case with regard to social tax: what, in your opinion, justifies the violation of the principles of the Social Tax Act and the distribution of money collected as social tax to the part of the population for purposes which are incompatible with the objective of tax collection? How do you explain this? What is the justification for allowing social tax not to be used for the purposes originally assigned?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U70	Thank you. First of all, you let the genie out of the bottle. You gave an example of 18 February 2009 and said that it was the right decision. I said that afterwards I would also admit that it was very likely that it would then have to be dealt with quickly, that it was the right decision. And I made two more small decisions. Why, then, shouldn't you take such a look back? Now answer your question. I understand that, of course, with your question, you did not mean that the government is going to use social tax differently than planned. Your question relates to the fact that if this money is taken out, if a person takes it out and does not continue in the second pillar, and whether he invests it in any other way, or whether he makes some of the costs he needs to spend, so how does it go together with the principle of social tax? I understand that this is the content of your question. Okay, so let's say that a person doesn't continue in the second pillar and invests that money, but uses it, well, I don't know, in the free market, buys any services or goods. I'm sure there could be people like that. But it cannot be said that the services that it will then consume are not health-related, for example. Honestly, maybe some people are saying that this decision needs to be made now. The very serious problem of Estonian society is poor oral hygiene. And if a person has not been able, say, to invest in it, there have been no such opportunities, then there is no way to say that the money taken out is being used for completely wrong purposes. This decision relates to one part of the social tax, which is definitely health insurance. But, of course, I can't predict today, (a) how many people are taking out this money, and (b) if the money is being taken out, what it's being spent on. And, of course, I also assure you that no one is going to change our social system. In the case of social tax, the principle that he has had remains in force: for the most part, it goes to pensions and 13% to sickness insurance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U71	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U72	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! I will continue my question about today's pension bill. When you volunteer the second pillar, it becomes similar to the third pillar. It becomes similar to the third pillar and, in any case, a certain number of people leave the second pillar with money. The pension system consists of three pillars and, as a result of this change, listen to the whole system! The money will be reduced. The entire pension system will reduce money. If we go to change the system of funded pensions, the goal should be that in the future our pensions will be bigger, not smaller, but if the money goes out of the system, we will have smaller pensions in the future. I have heard the claim that this major reform is creating a situation in which pension funds are starting to increase productivity. The average rate of return last year was 9,5%. I don't know if you have invested yourself in shares, I have, and I know that such a return is very difficult to achieve on your own. And secondly, if, as a result of this change from the second pillar, money moves to the first pillar, then the amount of money in the system does not change. So I'm going to ask my question like this. Please state three assumptions as to how this draft concerning the vote of confidence will increase pensions in the future. Three reasons, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U73	Thank you very much. I think one of the things you've just pointed out is very correct. You said you heard something. I have also heard that the funds have started to work seriously to a) provide better services and b) just start increasing productivity. According to the pension centre, the average return on the second pillar was 2.8% in 2018 and 3.7% in 2017. The average rate of return on the second pillar since 2002 has always taught me to look at the long term, and let's not just bring out one or two years of history here, we will bring out the whole time, according to the pension centre, when we talk about real productivity, just positive: 0.3%. Nearly positive, 0.3%! And I really think, Mr Sõerd, that it is important to urge funds to work with their customers, to provide better services, to offer higher returns. Let's be honest, this phone has been pretty quiet for the people who've been there in the second pillar. During this 18 to 19 year, there have been no speeches that if you do so or so, your rate of return could rise. It has been a good safe income for the funds, and they have not thought about what we will do then. I think the reform will definitely activate the market. And I'm sure some new products will come to the market, so people can save in a good way. What you pointed out in relation to the third pillar, I agree that this should really be considered now. If the second pillar becomes voluntary, then in the future the idea of the third pillar should in any case come back. You ask what happens to pensions in the future. Once again, no one will take this second pillar away from anyone. If anyone wants to continue there, they can. He can bet there, and on exactly the same terms. Nothing will be changed retroactively, 2% or 4% will not be changed in any direction. This is not the content of this bill. So a man can continue. Point one. Here's one of your co-workers said very few people are investing. I agree. Perhaps very few people use an investment account or investment, but if some people want to use it, it gives an opportunity. But I heard a blowout from the Group of the Reform Party when I said before that we must also think about today's pensioners. We need to think about how we can raise our pension more. Just as Taavi Kõivas said very nicely, indexing is not a service of the government, but we need to think about how we can exceptionally raise our pension.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U74	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U75	Now the Prime Minister can take a moment to catch his breath. Question No 7 will be asked by Signe Riisalo and answer by Riina Solman, Minister of Population. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U76	Thank you, good manager. Madam Secretary! In Question Time on 4 December last year, you answered my question about family mediation funding that the funds are currently planned as follows: 1.5 million from 2022. From this year on, the funding will continue over the years. In the meantime, the issue of family mediation was also discussed by the government and at the 9 January press conference you said that the Cabinet of Government gave the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Social Affairs permission to further develop this system and to submit a financial application of EUR 1.5 million by 2022 in view of the budgetary strategy. As far as I am aware, the materials submitted to the Government of the Republic included a proposal for the three ministries to renew the additional application submitted in 2019 in the framework of the country's budgetary strategy by submitting a renewed application for 2021 to 2024. So how's the funding for this family mediation really? We would like to understand the government's position once and for all. Is it planned to renew the call for funding for this 1.5 million? How has it developed and whether it is a permanent expense over the years or a one-off expense? As regards parental benefit, you have said that this is the other half of the question that you intend to focus in the future on those family policy measures that will help families to have more children. It was July. And six months later, you have said: "The birth of the next child is postponed, and there is a danger that under different circumstances he will not be born later. It is important that regulations do not affect families' desired successive births...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U77	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U78	... to postpone for economic reasons. I would therefore like to extend the same amount of parental benefit for children born successively from 2.5 years to 3 years of birth. ' My question is how, with what measures you then want to increase the birth rate and achieve that...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U79	It's been a long time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U80	... families have more children.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U81	Thanks for asking. Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Signe Riisalo! You really have very precisely recorded my sayings and also the years. I don't have the number of years in my head, but the government really gave the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Social Affairs the authority to further develop family mediation services and propose a financing model. We touched on the same subject last time in this Chamber. Then it was open whether we would also use the ESF, i.e. external financing. You wanted this not to happen because there is a risk that funding will remain project-based and one-off. I don't think that's the way it's supposed to be. By way of funding for 2022, I actually meant the start of funding for this period, not that the money will only be allocated on a one-off basis and on a project basis. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This service is important, this service has long been expected, and here we will certainly look in the same direction. As regards parental benefits and then birth rates, this is indeed a complex and comprehensive problem. One or two measures will not do anything. But let's look at the wider picture, let's see that in fact, Estonian families want at least three children. 50% of women admit it. Very many have admitted at a meeting with me that they have wished to receive these children in succession, but with a 2.5-year range, this has not succeeded in ensuring that they receive parental benefit on average in full. Women have proposed that it be increased to three years. I very much support this and will go to the Minister for Social Affairs with such a proposal. I hope that the government will approve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U82	Signe Riisalo, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U83	Thank you. With regard to parental benefit, is this the only measure you are planning, or do you see any overall picture? But I am also interested in the fact that, as Minister for Population, you certainly have a position on making the second pillar of pension optional. How will it help an ageing society to cope in the future if we know that in 2040 there will be 47 people of retirement age for 100 people of working age and 70 people of working age will be dependent with children? Do you support solving this problem by means of a tax increase or perhaps you see the problem as a solution to this situation by drastically increasing immigration or increasing the retirement age? What are these solutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U84	Thank you very much for the additional question. I will certainly look at the whole picture, at other measures concerning our demography and birth rate. We are conducting this analysis, we are doing this now, and by the end of 2020, we will also present our whole vision of what measures can and will be taken by the country to improve our demographic situation. As regards the funded pension, i.e. the second pillar, having experienced an expert on poverty, it is my firm belief that the second pillar of poverty will not save anyone. Never saved since the Estonian standard of living... [[They say something loud in the hall.]] Please, don't interrupt, I'd like to respond. Personally, I will certainly continue to collect into the second pillar, but if the return on these funds does not improve and I am paying higher mortgage interest rates at the same time, I will definitely pay for my mortgage loan at the appropriate moment with the amount to be withdrawn from the second pillar. These things are relative. But the government really wants people to have the freedom to choose their own money.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U85	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U86	Thank you. Anyone who can calculate a little bit of your work might question your work. There is no pension fund in Estonia that is funny, with a lower rate of return than the interest on housing loans in Estonia. Therefore, the advice given as your minister to repay a mortgage or interest on a mortgage from a future pension is at least not economically sound. But my question is completely different. My question is what the Prime Minister sitting next to you left basically unanswered. I ask you this: do you clearly condemn the designation of disabled people and ethnic minorities as a retard by a member of the Government of the Republic? And if you condemn it unambiguously, what would you do instead of the Prime Minister Mart Helme, who in front of the Estonian people has called ethnic minorities and people with disabilities that way?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U87	Thank you very much, member of the Riigikogu Taavi Rõivas, for evaluating my knowledge of what to do with second pillar money! I think you are actually insulting many of those who want to invest or otherwise use this money themselves through an investment account. So it was an assessment not only of me, but of everyone else who wants to take that money out of the second pillar and put it in motion. Now the second question: you asked for my assessment of the statements made by the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme last week at Riigikogu Question Time. Mart Helme said a failed sentence, that is absolutely clear. But Mart Helme didn't say what you were saying. He didn't say they were freaks about any of the minorities. I'm not trying to soften somebody's failed sentences, but you have to understand that if he went to defend a minority, that minority needed protection. But it was a failed sentence design.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U88	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U89	Question 8, Helmen Küttt, answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U90	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! The National Audit Office has asked a number of questions and explained its views on the draft of mistrust that is to be discussed in this large hall today. In particular, pensions, including the second pillar, have been taken into account. I have a few questions, too. Since, unfortunately, these questions cannot be put to you at the sitting of the Riigikogu, I will take this opportunity to present them now. Have you considered the possibility of giving people more freedom of choice in managing their pension funds without allowing them to withdraw the money collected for old age from the pension system at the time of their retirement? Have the drafters considered the possibility of allowing partial withdrawals and continued collection on a smaller scale or, if they so wish, increasing their contributions to the pensionable part of their salary?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U91	Thank you very much, Mrs Helmen Kütt, for this question. The truth is that on Monday, before the government meeting, there was a very busy meeting, and this was also discussed at the government meeting. The focus of the meeting was, if I'm not mistaken, the suggestion of the Chancellor of Justice 39 that he presented there. The truth is that we went through all of these points on a point-by-point basis, and some of the proposals were also supported. I've already mentioned one here, but I'm going to say it again. The Chancellor of Justice was just concerned about the timetable for implementation. As far as I know in the Riigikogu commission, it was said earlier that, for various reasons, IT systems will not be completed in time and we would need more time to implement the law. The Chancellor of Justice pointed out up to 18 months. One could say that we do not know how this vote is going today, but if it goes well and the law is passed, then the question is whether there will be disputes or whether there will be no disputes afterwards. It is currently planned that the payment will take place on 1 September 2021 and then it can be safely said that this 18-month request or requirement has been met. Now the questions that you asked me, the answer is that we discussed them all. But that was one of the main proposals the Chancellor of Justice made to this bill. We also took into account that the Chancellor of Justice said that he felt that a little more or more justification should be given for the possible retroactive nature. This recital is also included in the explanatory statement, as far as I know.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U92	Helmen Hunter, a question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U93	Thank you very much for your comprehensive answer, but my question concerned the proposals of the Auditor General. I understand that you replied with one sentence on this, that you also discussed these proposals, but I did not hear anything about what I was asking, i.e. on the consideration of the proposals of the Auditor General. After all, Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik, who is a member of your own government office, has also come with a proposal that people can withdraw 2% and 4% remain in the pension system. In fact, the Auditor General has offered something similar. Perhaps, however, you will also respond a little to what I actually asked on the first question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U94	Thank you. Of course I will. This is not only the proposal of the Auditor General, but it is the idea put forward by very many or, well, very different groups to make a payment of only 2%, not also 4%. Of course, I cannot say in any way that the government has not discussed this. Yes, they have discussed it, but it has not found support. This has not been the goal that the government has in carrying out this reform. The principle has been different: giving people the freedom to decide for themselves what they want to do with the second pension pillar. And, as I said before, I am absolutely sure of this, or I will in any case take a positive view of the prospect that people will make rational and thoughtful decisions about their savings.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U95	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U96	Thank you. When you answered Ivar Padari's question, the classic sounded again, but look at what he did in the garment, he also arranged for a connection to the question of trust. You know, I could start to explain the situation at the time and say that the opposition had actually filed a motion of mistrust at that point, and maybe there was no other way. But I'm not gonna do that, I'd rather say that I'm not proud that we had to tie in on the matter of trust. At that point, it seemed to us that this was the only choice, but I'm not sure afterwards that it was a good idea. This certainly does not seem to be a good idea for the current draft, which many feel is contrary to the Constitution and changes the future of people for tens of years. At the time, I recall, there was a question of a reduction in social tax, which would actually have had a positive effect on all of us if it had not been turned back later. Interestingly, you tend to follow the example of previous governments in their most negative decisions. Earlier governments also did a lot of important things: labour taxes were lowered and the percentage of defence costs was higher than today, reforms were substantive and increased the sustainability of Estonia, not vice versa. Right now we're going in the exact opposite direction. Here's my question. All experts, starting with Estonian experts and ending with international experts, have condemned the specific draft that is to be discussed today, both in substance and in terms of constitutional compliance. There has been a paid lawyer and an expert who, ten years ago, thought that Estonia would definitely not go to the euro...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U97	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U98	I'm sorry, but my watch isn't over, Mr. President. Your watch must be pointing at the wrong time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U99	The question has to fit in two minutes. You're already gone.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U100	Manager, you interrupted me when I had five seconds left of the clock.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U101	I reminded you that it is time for you to ask a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U102	Mr President, I ask you to speak when the time for that is up. Thank you. My question, which you have interrupted, is: why do you want to roll over all your expertise and risk adopting an anti-constitutional bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U103	Before the Prime Minister answers, I want to remind you that the question has to fit in two minutes. And if you can see that your question does not fit in, then I have the right to remind you that it is now time to ask a question. Taavi Clothes, please, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U104	Good manager! You've gone completely fucked up with your explanation. I had five seconds until the end of my speech when you interrupted me. I can give you an experience of how to ask a question in less than one second. Why did you interrupt me? Please explain why you interrupted me before my speaking time had run out. Which item of the Rules of Procedure gives you the right to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U105	I didn't interrupt you, I reminded you that now is the time to ask a question, but you didn't. Please, Mr. Kruuse!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U106	President of the sitting, as a member of the Riigikogu, I would now like to point out that your recent practice has been that, in the case of some members, you will be drawing attention to it 10 to 15 seconds after the end of time. Now you actually did it not five seconds before the end of time, but more. We would like to know whether you will change this logic of your behaviour or whether you will accept the Rules of Procedure and still have the question put in such a way that you will not interrupt the honourable questioner in this Chamber before you are two minutes full.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U107	Thank you. I have not reminded any questioners, either 15 or 10 seconds earlier, that it is time to ask a question, but about five seconds before I have reminded you. But not for everyone, even if you can see that the question is already coming. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U108	Thank you. Your activities as chair of the sitting are governed by the Rules of Procedure Act. What point in the law gives you the right to interrupt and interrupt a member of the Riigikogu within the time allowed to speak before him?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U109	The Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu states that a member of the Riigikogu has two minutes to ask a question. Two minutes! If it appears that the time has passed, the President of the sitting shall have the right to have the microphone turned off. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U110	Just for the sake of the verbatim, I feel obliged to say that there were at least five seconds left of my time. And I would like to point out that the President of the sitting has no reason or right to assume when the questioner reaches his question. He should not be interrupted when the question is asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U111	Thank you. It is perfectly clear whether the questioner is asking a question or whether he or she is just doing other things, expressing his or her views and opinions. And five seconds before the end of time, it is quite appropriate to remind him that it is now high time to ask a question. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U112	Good President! Can we agree on two minutes for the ambassadors to speak and then you interrupt and say that there is no question? But speaking at once, so that you intervene five seconds before and, for example, I ask a question, believe, the respondent doesn't hear the question, and there's a lot of confusion in the verbatim. Maybe we could give it two minutes to the questioners, and then you can decide what you're gonna do.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U113	If I understand correctly, you have a suggestion that after two minutes we turn off the microphone, just as the previous formations have done, just as the previous speaker did. I agree with this proposal. Yeah, we can do that in the future. Does Jürgen Ligi have a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U114	Thank you, Mr President. However, would we not agree to communicate friendlyly? You're not gonna talk first, but you're not gonna break off the line, you're gonna be reasonable. It's still a matter of feeling, and we're not in a real prison. If a few seconds pass, there's no point in picking a fight, there's no point in interrupting. We've done it this way so far, and we'll keep doing it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U115	Neither do I like to comment on the members of the Riigikogu, but unfortunately we have seen in the briefings so far that it has often happened that even most of the questions have gone over time and quite largely. If we respect each other, including your own colleagues, we should still adhere to the agreed rules, which are two minutes, which must include, among other things, a question. But let's get on with the registered questions. Mr Kõivas has already asked a question, and now the Prime Minister has the opportunity to answer it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U116	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Thank you very much for allowing me to answer Mr. Clothes. And I thank the President of the Riigikogu for his very good leadership that I am now getting the floor. Taavi Kõivas asked a very interesting and substantive question, and I was anxious to give an answer. You started your question, Mr Clothes, by not being proud of the fact that twice when you were Prime Minister, the various drafts were linked to a vote of confidence. One of them was a cluster bill. I'm saying I'm not proud either. So we're just like you, I don't know if you're a bunch of misfortunes or just not proud. But what are you doing? These 957 amendments are like a nigga on the table, and you actually understand that we cannot sit here for the next three weeks and walk in and out of the door every ten minutes. Who's gonna win this? Nobody wins, maybe the Riigikogu cafe wins the most. In fact, no one wins this. A substantive debate is needed here, and today there will be a substantive debate. Members of the Riigikogu have two excellent opportunities to ask the rapporteurs, everyone can negotiate. In fact, it is the idea of the Riigikogu's house and rules of procedure that there is a political debate in this Chamber that you can say in this Chamber how things should or should not be done. Now, on your question, you have pointed out that this draft could be contrary to the Constitution. As far as I know, this is in accordance with the Constitution. But of course, I have always emphasised that we must ensure that Estonia is the rule of law and Estonia remains the rule of law. And there's a chance. If a constitutional institution wishes to refer to the Supreme Court, for example, then this possibility exists. Finally, the Supreme Court will assess if this dispute goes as far as the draft is compatible with the Constitution or not. Now on, you said a lot of good things were done in your time. Well, I've told you that many times, Mr. Clothes, they did a lot of good. I have personally praised you for many things. You know that very well. But with this percentage of defense costs, I don't think it's worth anyone to play and show off. You know that this percentage of GDP will change maybe five times during the budget period of defence expenditure, and this figure will do nothing. It is important that we keep our promises, keep them above 2%. And it's been done for five or six years, it's a really important, very important achievement, and it has to go on. It is a pleasure that the current government, too, is maintaining this good principle of the previous government that money should be added to the fund for defence investments. I'm sure I'm looking forward to your interesting second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U117	Thank you. Let us stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U118	Question 9: asks Aivar Sõerd and answers the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U119	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, The government recently approved a road plan. However, this road safety plan is strikingly marked by large gaps and gaps. This year, a total of EUR 280 million has been earmarked for public roads, most of which goes to maintain the existing road network and to develop 100 million. By 2023, this amount will dry to a total of EUR 209 million and the development cost to EUR 25 million. To maintain road savings at today's level, an additional 70 million will be needed in 2023. But in addition to that, you have come up with a grand and relatively empty PPP scheme. After all, this PPP scheme means that these PPP sections will be built in pieces and must be bought out from the private sector. The first section of the road, 21 kilometres of Libatse-Are, according to you, is expected to be completed in 2021 or 2022. This means that after that, PPP repayments will have to be made. Do you have any calculations of the amount of these repayments? As far as I know, this size could be 150 million euros a year. The question is how this gap will be filled, because there is no money in the budget strategy. Where does the missing money from the existing development come from? Where does the PPP refund money come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U120	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioner! I start with the fact that, for the first time, this road maintenance plan deals thoroughly with the construction of 2 + 2 roads. Since the money has also been earmarked to design these roads in order to carry out preparatory work. The Reform Party has been in power for a very long time and, unfortunately, during this long period of power, it would have been possible at least to design these roads, if not to build them. Today we are dealing with the consequences: it has not been done. Now the question is, why in 2023 will tea money decrease. I believe you know as well as I do the reason. But I'll go over it. Neither the funds for the future period nor the performance reserve for that period have been taken into account in this road plan. If these amounts are known, they can also be reflected in this road-saving plan. These are the exact numbers that exist in the budget strategy. If the amounts are known, if we find out what future funds are, how much the reserve will be used, then they will be included in the national budget strategy and can be further reflected in the road management plan. By the way, I think it is very right to reflect the plans in the road map as well as the possibilities of a national budget strategy. As far as PPPs are concerned, I also believe that you have read it and know it as well as I have stated that if the government decides to use a PPP option to build 2 + 2 roads, the road safety plan will be amended accordingly. These are certainly very big decisions, and this will certainly have a very significant impact on the timetable that will be built over time for these 2+2 roads. Of course, this must also be reflected in the road map. As far as 150 million is concerned, I think this is the estimated amount. It is possible that these payments are between 100 and 150 million, but this is when all 2 + 2 roads are constructed. And when I get back to the beginning of my story, I say that if, in the very long period of power of the Reform Party, these roads had been constructed, these figures would certainly be much smaller.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U121	Thank you. Two sentences of question and answer. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U122	Mr Aas, it is vulgar to blame for things that have not been done in the past in response to what you do yourself. It's vulgar. But my question is for the minister of tea. The Constitution forbids the Minister of Road Maintenance from being in several positions, and now you have received a case in one of your positions of jurisdiction. Tell me how you've been able to run these many jobs and what conclusions you're drawing from yourself. I am referring to a criminal case related to the Tallinn Central Hospital.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U123	Thank you for your question, although I do not understand how this relates to the road map. However, as far as the Chairman of the Council is concerned, I have consulted the Secretary of State on this matter, asking if it is legitimate for me to continue to fill this place, and I have received the answer that this is the case. As far as the criminal case is concerned, I think that you, like I, have been able to read a statement from the prosecutor's office that the initiation or non-initiation of a criminal case will be decided after the actions have been carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U124	Thank you. I thank the questioners! I thank the ministers for their answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U125	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 3rd working week session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to pass on drafts and enquiries? The members of the Riigikogu do not have the wish to transfer drafts and enquiries. Requesting presence check! 93 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 8.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U126	Let's go to today's agenda. Today's first item is the second reading of the Act on funded pensions initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, the draft law amending other laws. Before we go to this item on the agenda, I will briefly present the procedure for this procedure. First of all, the representative of the Government of the Republic will be present for up to 20 minutes. The members of the Riigikogu can then ask questions. Any member of the Riigikogu may submit to the rapporteur up to two oral questions, followed by negotiations where members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups can speak. Amendments pursuant to § 137 (6) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu shall not be put to the vote. The final vote on the draft law will take place. If the Riigikogu does not adopt a draft relating to a matter of trust, the President of the Riigikogu shall immediately inform the President of the Republic. That is the procedure for dealing with this item. I now ask for a waitress, Minister of Finance Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U127	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'm in front of you with the pension reform bill. Today, the draft reform of the second pillar is before us at second reading and at the same time in the final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U128	Dear waitress, I'm sorry. I'll cut you off for a second. [[???Opositsioonierakondade esindajate laudadel on plakatid kirjaga 'Lõpetage Eesti lõhkumine'.???]] Members of the Riigikogu who have come to this hall with slogans! The good practice of Riigikogu's work through different formations has been such that we do not enter this hall with slogans. This has also been observed during different formations. I have a request that you put these slogans in your drawers or take them out of here. With this we will continue the good tradition we have had so far, which, I repeat, has been followed during the various formations. So please, members of the Riigikogu, who have come here with their slogans, you can walk around the Riigikogu building with them, in Riigikogu costars, but let us leave this hall free of slogans. You don't want any? You don't want to take off the slogans? Director's break is ten minutes. I'm asking the board to gather!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U129	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's get back to today's trial. During the break taken by the President, a meeting of the Riigikogu Board took place, where it was decided by consensus that slogans and posters will not be displayed in the Chamber of Riigikogu sittings. In this regard, I would like to ask that we put these slogans on the tables here today, put them away nicely in the drawers, and in the future we will all be guided by this consensual decision of the board. [[I'm moving table valves.]] Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Is it a procedural question? Kalvi Tough, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U130	Yeah, thanks! I accept this decision of the board, but for the future, so that it is clear: if I go to my room now and put on a T-shirt with the same text and I want to come here, what do I have to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U131	Well, I also interpret slogans on clothes as slogans. So we're gonna stay dressed and not enter this hall with the slogan on it. What you are doing outside this hall, in your room or elsewhere, it is, of course, completely free. Then let's move on to today's sitting. Minister, please continue your report.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U132	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U133	I'm sorry! Another procedural question. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U134	Thank you, Mr President. Continuing what you said: does this question of clothing and slogans also concern those on the balcony? There was at least one person up there half an hour ago who was wearing a sweatshirt saying, "Money is free," and I've seen a few other people wearing that sweater. Can you tell me how the board feels about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U135	The board must also shape its position on the balcony. So far, we've been talking about the big hall. Yes, please, Peter Ernits, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U136	Dear Vice-Chairman, You said you shouldn't come to the hall with a certain note in your shirt. Is that true of the president?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U137	I hope that this will apply to all persons in the future. Yes, please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U138	Thank you. I have a proposal to stop dealing with this issue. If necessary, the Bureau may discuss this subject further, but it would not be worth spending time in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U139	Thank you. A very constructive proposal, I hope everyone agrees, and we can move on to the agenda. Now, indeed, please, Minister, continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U140	Thank you. Then I will start again with my speech. The draft reform of the second pillar is before you today at second reading and also at the final vote. This is because the Government of the Republic decided at its meeting on 24 January to link the adoption of the draft to a matter of trust and according to § 173 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, the third reading of the draft will not take place in this case. This decision ended the obligations of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which was the lead committee, and the Government of the Republic took over the preparation of the draft for the second reading. At its meeting on 27 January, the Government decided to approve a new text with amendments. The amendments submitted during the procedure of the Riigikogu were also examined and an explanatory memorandum was drawn up which opens the amendments made to the draft. I would like to begin by thanking the Chairman of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu, Aivar Kokka, who, in the mid-term between the first and second reading of the draft, met with a large number of stakeholders, partners and other interested parties on the subject, and worked actively to ensure that the whole reform would be even better and its implementation smoother. On 16 January the Riigikogu also held an open meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, where stakeholders and politicians could express their views and make proposals for changes. From this period of consultation, some of the more fundamental issues on which the government decided to amend the draft remained open. I will also highlight these changes as follows. Firstly, amendments to the regulation concerning the departure from the second pillar at the time of collection. According to the original version of the draft law, applications to leave the second pillar were executed three times a year and had to be submitted at least one month before the month of disbursement. The money would have been paid out in instalments, depending on how much money has been collected into the account. Those rules were decided to be changed. Applications will be executed, i.e. the money will continue to be paid out three times a year, then in January, May and September, but the corresponding application must be submitted at least five months before the month of disbursement. For example, if a person wants to withdraw money from the second pillar and get his or her money in September, he or she must apply by the end of March at the latest. Such a higher buffer between the submission of the application and its realisation will give management companies more time than in the earlier version of the draft in order to release the necessary amount of money from investments. Thus, it also somewhat mitigates the risk that those leaving the second pillar might reduce the value of money collectors' assets in the pension fund. The rule that money is paid out in instalments has also been changed. According to the draft submitted to you for discussion, the money will be paid out in one payment. Continuing with the example already given: By the end of March, the person who applied will receive all the money in his pension account in September, regardless of how much money he has collected in the second pillar. The initial regulation in the draft, according to which people who have accumulated up to EUR 10000 would have received the money at the same time, and people who have accumulated more than EUR 10000 would have received it in several instalments, according to lawyers, led to unequal treatment of people. It was therefore decided to amend this provision in the draft. Secondly, the amendment that I would now like to highlight is partly linked to the amendments that have been mentioned. This gives management companies the right to borrow up to 25% of the value of the fund's assets instead of 10%. In particular, the amendment is based on the same objective of mitigating potential risks in a situation where a large number of people leave the pension fund at the same time and the management company should start selling its illiquid assets earlier than planned. A higher credit limit will provide an additional tool for managing investments and reduce the need for quick selling of illiquid assets. The third major change concerns the calculation of tax-free income. The draft before you has waived the inclusion of the second pillar payments in the tax-free income. Thus, if a person withdraws his or her money from the second pillar, he or she will have to pay income tax, but this payment will not affect the calculation of his or her tax-free income or increase his or her tax burden along with the other income he or she receives in the same year. The fourth and also the last major substantive change that I would like to introduce to you relates to the implementation and entry into force of the draft. It is clear from the Government that the proposed reform will enter into force as soon as possible, which will be done in the light of the necessary preparatory work. There have been a number of consultations between the two readings on this subject with the various implementing bodies, and it has also been taken into account that some elements of the reform have changed during the procedure, as I have already mentioned. The main difficulty of IT developments related to the reform is the Pension Centre managing the pension register, but the Tax and Customs Board, the Social Welfare Board, banks and insurance companies also need to develop. When considering the different operational programmes, the practical recommendations of many stakeholders were also taken into account to ensure that the reform enters into force as far as possible with the same aim of ensuring that no number of different dates for the implementation of the law are foreseen. We will not succeed in enforcing the whole reform at the very same time, but different stages have been reduced compared to the current one. In view of all this, the plan for the entry into force and implementation of the draft submitted to you today for discussion and adoption is as follows. The Act enters into force in general terms, i.e. on the tenth day following its publication in the Official Journal of the State. However, there are a number of important elements of the reform that will be implemented at later dates due to IT developments. All three types of statements, i.e. statements with which people who have not yet joined the second pillar can join, statements that will end the person's contributions to the second pillar, and statements that a person can withdraw his or her money from the second pillar will be accepted from 1 January 2021. It is the earliest date in which such new statements can be made, but because of the nature of the reform, it is a personal free choice for every person when he does it and whether he does it at all. The right to make these statements is an additional possibility for the new system. All declarations submitted by 31 March 2021 shall be implemented in September 2021. Thus, for example, people who wish to receive money from the second pillar and have submitted their applications during the first quarter of 2021 will be paid out of the second pillar in September 2021. From the same time, they will have the opportunity to return to the second pillar for the next ten years, as the reform already envisaged. The same applies to people who applied for suspension of their second pillar contributions in the first quarter of 2021 or to join the second pillar. For them, too, the desired change will be activated in September 2021. The request of those persons who submit one of these three applications between April and July next year shall be completed in January 2022, when the application is submitted between August and November, it shall be completed in May 2022. This will be the customary rhythm of these statements in all years to come. In order to transfer the funds collected from them to the investment account, patience must be mobilised until April 2021, when such a statement becomes possible. This is a well-known swap transaction, just as an additional option, the application will be accompanied by an investment account in which to transfer your money. The swap transaction shall also be executed in September 2021 when the application is submitted by the end of July 2021. In other words, the usual second pillar swap logic will apply here. From September 2021, all applicants will be able to redirect their new contributions to the second pillar to the pension investment account. This statement will be realized in substance immediately. Until September, new funds can only be channelled between different funds. The proposed tax changes will also enter into force in January 2021. This was also the case in the earlier version of the bill. These provisions are particularly important for those in the second pillar who have reached retirement age. Therefore, all those people who want to use the second pillar pension money on tax-enhanced terms should not rush to withdraw their money before January 2021. In summary, all the fundamental changes made to the draft are aimed at ensuring that the major and important reform can be implemented smoothly and thus provide people with additional opportunities for personal planning of their retirement. The amendments made to the draft act are not limited to what I have now highlighted. The interim period has also been used to clarify all the technical details relating to the pension investment account. The excellent work of the draft has also been done by the editors of language and regulation, whose recommendations have been taken into account, and so the draft as a whole has become both linguistically and essentially more understandable and thus better implemented. There is also concern about this reform that not all its components may be compatible with the Constitution. I don't agree with that. We have proposed a balanced solution during this six-month period when we are working on the reform, which will make the current rigid system considerably more flexible for people, but at the same time maintains the necessary constraints in the light of social objectives. These restrictions are, in my opinion, proportionate and necessary, and also in the eyes of the Constitution. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! That's all for me. There is no doubt that we can be more specific in the round of questions. Thank you. And, of course, I call on you all to support this draft in the final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U141	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U142	Thank you. It's kind of comicic that you call it a bill reform. Everyone knows that every big change may not be a reform. Breaking up is not a reform, building is a reform. You are currently breaking something that was built 20 years ago, and you are taking Estonia back two decades in time. But I ask you that a lot has been said about those who are tempted to receive money quickly, most likely to spend their old age in distress. Less has been said about the fact that pension funds are significantly less able to invest in the Estonian economy, which in turn means that the Estonian economy already has fewer opportunities to grow in the medium term. Do you understand this macro-impact and do you realise the responsibility you have for this change?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U143	Thank you. I would first like to comment on this high probability. We can say from this 17-year experience that the predicted probabilities have not realised at all. After all, this is what we said several times during the first reading. If anyone today makes a prediction about what's going on in the next 17 years and says it's a high probability, we have no empirical reason to believe it. As regards the impact on macroeconomics, investment in Estonia, we know that investments in the Estonian economy have also increased since the last major changes in the funded pension system. A little more than 10% of the money available has been put into investments in the Estonian economy. On the other hand, in the last 17 years more than 3 billion euros of tax money collected from the Estonian economy has been taken out of Estonia. One part of the pension system that is operating today was to collect money from the Estonian economy with taxes and to withdraw money from Estonia. So I don't take these crocodile tears seriously, that now we are doing terrible damage to the Estonian economy, that damage has already been done with the current pension system.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U144	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U145	Thank you. Mr. Helme, study the economy! Gross national product should be even more important to you as a nationalist than gross domestic product. No macroeconomic man is saying that we are lacking liquidity in the economy. But you said a nice sentence about how you're somewhat reducing the risk of damage. Risk management or crisis management has been the essence of this procedure. But please tell me how you imagine the future in 20 to 30 years. In the 17 years you're talking about, we had a crisis of the century. You are threatening that there will be many more of these crises in this century. How, then, do you imagine the situation of pensioners whose pension decreases by 30% in the middle according to the explanatory statement of your bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U146	Thank you. Economic lessons, I guess, we're not going through here today. But how do I imagine their situation? With regard to risk reduction, I would say that I have been amazed at the debate that took place during the process and preparation of this draft. From the beginning, as soon as we started this reform, I have told all those affected that if you have proposals that will make this reform better, we will listen to them. As I have just told you, we have taken on board a number of these proposals. But if you talk about not reforming, or if you come with suggestions that we do so by delaying or not going to work, then we will not discuss it. In this sense, I am very sad to note that here in the Riigikogu, too, the actual debate opposition has very much not wanted to launch, but has come up with 950 completely empty proposals for improvement. It is not possible to discuss them very much there is no content to discuss. Now from the future. I don't think any of us have crystal balls to say what's 20 or 40 years from now. But we can tell you what's been going on for the last 17 years. We can also say that if we take away one fifth of people's social security contributions for decades, and by this fifth their first pillar does not actually decrease in the same proportion, then in fact we have already cheated on pensioners today. No one wants to admit it. But how do I imagine the future? If the Conservatives are in power, they're light blue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U147	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U148	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, If the second pillar becomes voluntary, as you wish, then in any case a very large amount of money, either a billion or two billion, depending on the number of departures, will leave the system. Let's look at the pension system as three pillars, as a whole. If the pension system reduces money, there will also be less money to pay pensions in the future. You have said that, according to this draft, it is possible to squeeze even higher returns from the funds. Last year, an overall return of 9.5% was already achieved. I don't know if you've invested in the stock yourself, but I have, in addition to the second pillar. It is very difficult to achieve an even higher rate of return than this. If money simply moves from the second pillar to the first pillar, then as a whole...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U149	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U150	...the system does not increase the amount of money. I ask you: say three of the most important reasons, in your opinion, how, in a situation where money is reduced in the pension system, pensions can grow under this bill. I say that they will decrease in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U151	Thank you. But I disagree: money does not leave the system. Yeah, money leaves one system, but that money has already actually left the pension system, and it's a public pension system. For the last 17 years, the national pension system has been raised in hoods, and by this the last 17 years have been smaller in public pensions. And if we now leave a considerable amount of the second pillar, their social tax payers will be fully returning to the national pension system and the public pension system will be more sustainable by that. So I don't agree with the starting point.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U152	Ladies and gentlemen, Let's try to fit our question in one minute! If this doesn't work out, we'll shorten the introductory part and start with the question right now. Please, Minister, come in!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U153	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U154	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. When the second pillar was legalised in 2001, the long-term perspective was taken into account. During the financial crisis, a thought moved somewhere to stop collecting into the pension pillar, but common sense won, and with a slight intermediate variation, the collection continued as originally planned. The compulsory accession of those born in 1983 meant that young people retired in the middle of the 21st century. All demographic and socio-economic reasons gave society the message that the Estonian state wants to provide people with a better livelihood at a mature age, despite the fact that the number of future generations is decreasing and the maintenance of joint and several pension insurance is becoming increasingly strained by working age taxes. The fact that saving is smart became a positive resonance in society and the funded pension was joined voluntarily. According to a legal assessment commissioned by your Ministry, the draft is currently in conflict with the Constitution in 11 points. Have all these doubts been rejected by today? You said here before that there is no contradiction with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U155	Thank you. I will start at the back: the draft is not in conflict with the Constitution, but there is some degree of constitutional breach. This is not the same as being contrary to the Constitution. We are dealing with a violation of the Constitution on a very large number of laws, starting with tax laws and continuing, I don't know, with the duty of the Defence Forces and ending with, I'm not going to conjure up a ghost here, but with the reform of the pharmacy. In this sense, there is nothing unprecedented or unusual about the violation of the Constitution, the question is whether it is justified and proportionate. And our analysis says that these latches are all reasonable and proportionate. Also, the legal analysis of the Ministry of Justice, which is not written up by officials, but ordered from outside the house, so we are all convinced that it is impartial and balanced, says that there is no conflict with the Constitution. Now, did common sense win in 2009 or 2010? I think he won the bank lobby, not common sense. And when we talk about the long term here, I think that 17 years is such a long perspective that we can say whether or not this system works. The clear assessment of pension reformers is that they do not work as promised or as we would like. In the course of this debate, too, which we have had in recent months or in the last six months, practically everyone has admitted that the system that we have today is not working. This is not what was promised or what expectations are. And now the question is, how do we change it? It is quite clear that there are different solutions, there are different visions. This vision or this solution, which the coalition has chosen and which we are enforcing, is not suitable for many opposition ambassadors and market participants. It's understandable. They either have their own interests in the game, or they have some kind of world-view position, or they are involved, say, in earlier political activities, which is why they find that the direction we have chosen, they don't like or they don't like it. Understood! But like it or not, the current coalition thinks it's the best way forward. But it is quite understandable that world - sighted choices may not please everyone. Now, the collection of positive resonance. I believe, or at least hope, that you have all read Indrek Neivelt's few articles on the ERR opinion portal. He proves to us very nicely mathematically that in this collection scheme, the winners are 20% of the people with the highest income. And the losers are those who have low incomes, either medium or below average. This is clearly the result of a political choice and it is understandable that from the point of view of the Reform Party, this is a sensible solution. But, for example, from our point of view, this is not a sensible solution. This collection, where we collect money from the poorer people for the success of the richer people, is not, in our view, a sensible pension system.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U156	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U157	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Like my penguin, I am actually very concerned about the very negative impact of this future law on the development of the Estonian capital market and also on the wider economy. This was mainly because in 2017, for example, pension funds had invested about 5% of their money in the Estonian economy, then in the second quarter of 2019 it was already around 15%. Of course, this, too, seems to be a small amount of money you mentioned that 3 billion have been removed, but in fact, the state itself had put head on investment funds. They were not allowed to invest in shares and so on. For the same reason, at the end of 2018, the Riigikogu significantly liberalised the possibilities for pension funds to invest in shares. As a result, I think it would have been only a matter of time before investment funds, given their current volume, had invested in the Estonian economy in the order of a billion or two. And now they're gonna have to start looking for that money from the outside. How do you justify that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U158	Thank you. I voted in favour of the same amendment that made investment more flexible, and it has clearly had a positive effect. Perhaps the tragedy is that the effect came too late. Now, having talked to investment fund managers or to banking people, we are creating a situation where we are creating a clear need to offer better returns to payers in the second pillar. This is the only way to keep people in this second pension system. I want to stress that the slogans that were here before that we were breaking something are actually misleading or lying. We're not breaking anything. We create more opportunities and we create more flexibility. The second pension pillar remains. Nobody gets moved out of there, unless he takes steps, doesn't make a statement. The second pension pillar remains, nothing will be broken. But there is a need for fund managers in the second pillar to provide better productivity. I've been talking to different investors, different fund managers. They say that the real economy is the only place where productivity can be achieved, which is to some extent attractive. There is nothing to do with some index funds in this period of negative interest rates, and this means that they are looking for investment opportunities further and investments in the real economy will not disappear from Estonia. It's true, they have to redefine their portfolios, that's clear. And for this we have extended both the time of disbursements and the time of implementation of the law so that they can change their investment strategies, create new products and, if necessary, provide liquidity. I can quite put my hand to heart that the fund managers very much agree with the changes we have made. They will no longer protest against our reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U159	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U160	In general, I am of the opinion that if the accumulation is slow or the productivity is low, the solution cannot be to complete the collection. And although I am sometimes laughed at in my group, I also believe in Jüri Ratas, who says that making the second pillar optional and distributing this money in substance will probably lead to an increase in the tax burden in order to maintain the ratio between wages and pensions. Tell me if Jüri Ratas and I are wrong. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U161	What a wonderful tandem! [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I would like to start from the end where the introduction to the question was. If the collection is unreasonable and if it burns using the words of the slogan, if the return on investment is lower than inflation, then it really does not make sense and then it must be stopped. It is absolutely scandalous that people are being forced to collect and, at the same time, they say that this is all pointless, because you will need this money in a long time. The purchasing power of this amount, when you finally get it, is ridiculous, but you must not stop this collection because ideology does not allow it. I absolutely do not agree with the argument that if collection does not quickly show that this collection makes sense, then we must continue. It was supposed to be the mark of a stupid person doing the same thing in a row, but hopes the result is different. As far as tax increases are concerned, it is no news that the Centre Party wants to initiate a political debate on taxes. Nor should it surprise anyone that their preference in the tax debate is to discuss what new taxes will be created and what existing taxes will be raised. If they have the opportunity to say that taxes are rising, then I have not yet seen any tax on which the members of the Centre Party will not have their eyes shining. I'm not saying it hostilely or with irony, it's because of their worldview. If you guys are gonna hit each other like this together, let him be like this. But that doesn't mean we really have to raise taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U162	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U163	Thank you. Good minister! First of all, a few facts to make sure that you don't see a curved mirror in front of your eyes. On 8 October, together with the Social Democrats, we tabled a draft that would really have improved the pension system. The government didn't think it was worth discussing. The first pillar pension does not depend on the second pillar. Read the Blog of the Ministry of Finance, it's perfectly explained what the amount of the first pillar pension depends on. Thirdly, I hope that you have seen not only the views of Indrek Neivelt but also the analyses of Eesti Pank, the National Audit Office, Praxis, the Ministry of Finance itself and many other analysts and organisations, in which everyone finds it a bad idea to volunteer the second pillar. My question: have you also made a fresh start on the size of the pension for those who withdraw money from the second pillar and spend it, and is this pension sufficient to achieve a standard of living that does not require additional state support?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U164	Thank you. So let's start with you putting forward a nice bill that the government didn't support. It is quite common for drafts from the opposition to be left without the support of the government, which should not be surprising. And the reasoning was also very clear: we have a better bill of our own. But let's get to the bottom of it. Your bill was a fine-tuning bill, but we want to reform. Some here claim that reform is only if it happens the way they like it, everything else is destruction. But yes, its content did not suit us; it was not in line with what the coalition had agreed. The political choice is clear in this. There is a statement that the size of the first pillar or, let's say, the pension does not depend on the second pillar. This may be true on a non-discriminatory basis, but the absolute lion's share of the pension is paid out of the social tax, plus 140.150 million from the "over-the-counter" Treasury. And we know that the amount to be assigned to the second pillar, which is also due to social tax, is about twice as much as this missing part, that is to say, 140.150 million. So we can say yes, formally Estonian pension depends on indexation. The current pension for the first pillar depends on indexation and social tax is not enough to pay the amount resulting from this indexation, but it would be practically enough if we did not pay 250 million per year in the second pillar, this amount increases every year, a few years ago, it was less than the promise that we would receive a 25-euro pension after 30 years. This is a discussion point that we will see, either formally, or we will see in essence, but the very existence of today's second-pillar pension system will lead to the funding of the first pillar and will have to be put into it from the state budget elsewhere. But now for the second part of the question, perhaps the opinion of experts. Well, I should say that the criticism of this draft, or of this whole reform, is rather shablo. I must say, I was very unhappy reading the Chancellor of Justice's assessments. It was precisely the fact that he used the same template that made me unhappy: he did not deal with legal arguments as much as political arguments. He even proposed different policy options for the government, which I think are completely unjustified or unnecessary. But, well, that's that. What's it about? It tells us that the opponents of the pillar reform, or those who live on this pillar, those who live very well on it, have been very capable of spreading their points of view. But critics have their points.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U165	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U166	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The purpose of the Estonian pension system is, and I quote now: 'help people to maintain their standard of living and monthly income when they go on retirement pension'. Will the dismantling of pension pillars lead us to this goal?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U167	Thank you. But we're not gonna tear it down. I still don't understand where this statement comes from that we're tearing something down. We'll make it more flexible, we'll make it free. We're not tearing down anything, we're creating more opportunities. Whether people start collecting into the second pillar or not is their choice, just as this part so far had their choice. And whether or not they receive more or less money there is also partly the result of people's own choice, but partly the result of unpredictable market behaviour. It is important that, even with the current system, it is not predictable that we will be able to achieve the objective that you have quoted. For the current system, the "replacement rate" is not guaranteed. We can argue whether the changes we have made will make things better or worse. We firmly believe that they will certainly improve the situation, but the starting point is to understand that the current system also fails to fulfil the desired objective. So something has to be done and here is our solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U168	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U169	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I quote Jüri Ratas on 1 November 2018, a year ago. 'I don't think it's right that we are currently changing the system created by the state with the second pillar, where the state is contributing two-thirds and the person one-third. What the state has deepened, what guarantee it has given, what confidence it has given, it will certainly continue,' he added. Today, the Prime Minister has tied the vote on the draft to a matter of trust. But the bill will be protected by the Minister of Finance, and you will protect it. How do we know the Prime Minister has given up his promise a year earlier? And it's really interesting how you managed to reverse Jüri Ratas' conviction at 360 degrees.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U170	360 degrees is on the circle. The bike goes around, it's 360 degrees. I'd say that he's a good trick, and I guess we've all used it to punch politicians in the head with their own words. Politics is dynamic. Then the other government was in a different composition, with other plans. Political parties with different world views were in this particular composition, and then this topic was not raised as a debate in this way either. And I would also add what has been said here by so many others that people's views may develop over time, and arguments may work. I hope that maybe some reform party will come to our side today, maybe the arguments will work. I draw attention to what is very important. We will certainly arrive here, or at least I hope that we will reach these issues in this debate, too, that we will come to the question of whether this reform can be prevented or should be prevented through the courts. But in the meantime, there were elections and there were two political parties in the government today who said that they wanted to reform the second pension pillar more or less exactly as this bill says. For the Fatherland, this was the main, or central, electoral promise, but we also had it clearly stated on the electoral platform. So in the elections, the voters gave a new guideline. And I think it is very reasonable that politicians listen to the guidelines that voters give.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U171	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U172	Good President! Mr. Minister! I am somewhat concerned about the communication on this reform. In Russian social media, for example, news is now spreading that my friend works at Swedbank, let me know who you are, I'll put you in line, you'll get the money first. Does the government have a clear information plan on how to inform people of this reform in both Estonian and Russian? So far, we are basically emphasising freedom of choice, but it is clear that there will also be a responsibility to withdraw money. The basic question for people right now is how big my pension is when I join the second pillar, and how much my pension is when I take the money out. Perhaps once again: my question specifically concerns the communication plan that the government either has or does not have.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U173	Thank you. First of all, I think that the most important information is that people are watching this social debate, which has been going on for a year now. During the election campaign, this topic has already been raised and the year will soon be over. Whoever has taken any interest in this matter has certainly received very important information. It is also important to note that various surveys and other studies have been commissioned, which tell us very clear language that people did not know anything about where they had the money before the social debate, what the money was doing there, what the return is, what the difference is between the first and second pillars, how the money will be received. I think this awareness has increased a great deal in Estonia over the last year. Of course, there has also been talk of notification by the state, which must be done by all the institutions through which these different movements will take place, such as the Pension Centre, the Tax Administration and the Social Insurance Board. Their websites have different information pages, such as frequently asked questions. We have even agreed to have a hot phone line: people can call this number and ask their questions for answers. It's meant to be, it's a plan. And there is a third measure that works regardless of what the government plans or doesn't plan. It is clear that the current pension fund managers are campaigning to convince people to continue, or to offer them some alternative, new investment products, to keep people with themselves and achieve what has been the cause of concern here several times: that people are still saving for their old age. So I think communication is an important issue. The important question is whether it is being dealt with, and the answer is: yes, it is being dealt with. There's a lot of people working on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U174	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U175	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, You mentioned earlier that you have spoken to experts who say that the real economy is the best place to get the best economic results. On this basis, I understand you're assuming that if an ordinary person invests, he'll deal with the market risks the same way as fund managers do. But here's the other side. 2007 was the last major economic crisis and in 2008 the number of suicides in North America and Europe increased by 10000. This figure did not increase in those countries where there was a multi-layer pension system. How do you comment on that now? Have you analyzed these risks for people? Please comment!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U176	Thank you. First of all, as regards my earlier response, to which you referred, either the ordinary person invests better or worse, it depends on the ordinary person. But I didn't talk about it. I was talking about pension funds, wishing to offer a better product to a person, rethinking their investment policy. And they will certainly be professionals and will find ways to take account of this new system and pursue better returns. Now, with regard to suicides, I know this statistics, although I do not currently have it, that in 2009, or during the previous economic crisis, the number of suicides in Estonia decreased. I don't have anything to say, but as far as I'm concerned, the number was down. And if you ask me why, the answer is not that we have had, I do not know what kind of multi-layer pension or multi-pillar pension system, but it decreased because society held the stance that we are all having a difficult time together and no one is being a loser here. Everyone had a hard time, everybody had a hard time. And when you personally had a hard time, it wasn't your personal failure. I cannot answer about statistics in other countries, I must admit that I am not familiar with these statistics. But I dare to think that the attempt to give the impression that pension reform will lead to a wave of suicides in Estonia is not convincing in my view.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U177	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U178	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, If I understand correctly, the money taken out of the second pillar can also be paid back by a person for his short-term debt. I understand that, according to this bill, it is not prohibited at all. How do you feel that the repayment of a quick loan for the money of the second pension pillar is an investment and do you have any information on how many people we have in Estonia who are in debt slavery to a fast loan?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U179	Thank you. Yeah, you got it right. If a person withdraws his or her money from another pension, he or she can do whatever he or she wants with it. He can do what he wants with it: he can pay his loans with it; he can give it to his children or siblings, or to a sympathetic politician if he wants. That's his money, and he does what he wants. I would question the claim that you should continue to be in a difficult situation because of a high-speed debt if you actually have a financial asset somewhere. If you may be moving towards personal bankruptcy, I'm, like, questioning the rationality of such a solution. If you are experiencing serious financial difficulties in the present, I do not think we should say a priori that they should not be solved with this money. The value of your assets may then suffer much more. But I have to add here that we have a law that regulates it about five years ago to solve the issue of fast loans. This problem is not pandemic in Estonia, as far as I know.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U180	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U181	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Paragraph 1 of the Social Tax Act states that social tax is a financial liability imposed on the taxpayer in order to obtain the income necessary for pension insurance and state health insurance. In order not to comply with the law in force, there must be extremely compelling reasons. What is the justification for this violation of the principles of the Social Tax Act and the distribution of the money collected in the form of social tax to people for repayment or daily consumption, i.e. for purposes which are not in line with the objectives of tax collection?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U182	Thank you. But this section was already violated when the current system was made. In essence, placing 4% of social tax on the fund is the privatisation of 4%. Legally speaking, it can no longer be considered a pension fund anyway. That money's stuck in that fund, and we're saying you're gonna get it when you retire from the old age, but in fact, it's already been privatized. In fact, this money has already been privatized! It's not retirement money anymore anyway. So with this reproach, we have to go back 17 to 18 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U183	Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U184	Thank you. Good minister! You mentioned earlier that the economy is something that you cannot predict for a very long time that you have to look at the crystal ball and that it is very difficult. However, there are people in Eesti Pank, analysts who have studied the links to demography, and since demography is predictable today, we know the broad demographic situation by 2040, they have come up with three possible steps that should be taken in Estonia due to this reform. These are a third reduction in pension, quite noticeable tax increases and, thirdly, the large introduction of migrant labour into Estonia. I would like to know what your position and that of the government is personally, what Estonia should do in the future from these three options. What's best for you?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U185	Thank you. Yeah, well, I'm glad they have a crystal ball in there. Unfortunately, it must also be said that demography is not predictable. Five years ago, all the fortune tellers in Estonia said that the population in Estonia is starting to decline, and it is starting to shrink and rapidly decline. And what happened? The last three or four years have seen an increase in the population in Estonia. All these trends that were drawn at the beginning of the last decade, beautiful or ugly big graphs, here and there, with a hugely fast curve, must be crossed off and the new ones drawn, because even in the short term as five years people were not able to predict demography. And now we're told that we can predict demography 30, 40, 50 years in advance. We're drawing some three scenarios on the wall, see what kind of poetic expression, 'three scenarios', one is worse than the other. I don't take these scenarios seriously. It's so simple.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U186	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U187	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. In answering the last question, you ignored the fact that these growth figures have actually come from immigration. But that's it. The shockers or breakers of the pension system, the current government, among you, are arguing for freedom for citizens to withdraw money by offering them that they are smart, they are good at handling it and they are making the right, necessary decisions with a view to their future. Last time we discussed this bill at first reading, I asked you what financial literacy teaching in schools in Estonia was or even a bit more widely. You said you didn't know that. In the meantime, have you brought yourself up to speed on this? And is the government actually planning some kind of action to improve our people's literacy, or financial literacy, in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U188	Well, I'd say you're presenting our argument here selectively. Much of the argument is not that people are highly ingenious investors, but that the current system operators have not managed to invest well and the current system lives at the expense of both current and future pensioners. For at least another 40 years, we will pay for the "start" of this system and it will not satisfy us. The question is not that we think that people are so smart that they are able to achieve some huge returns, but we give people the opportunity to choose and decide. If they think this system is putting their money badly, they'd better take that money out now and take advantage of it themselves. In fact, I would like to stress that it is always important that people who leave the second pillar are fully transferred to the first pillar, i.e. the size of their first pillar is increasing. It must also be taken into account that it is not really the case that the second pillar is taken away and nothing comes in place. It's going to be a bigger first pillar. As far as financial literacy is concerned, I have been discussing this particular subject with the Minister of Education and he has assured me that there are a number of programmes and projects that deal with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U189	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U190	Thank you. All these explanations are clearly understood: we have an incomprehensible piece of shit on this table. You have just said that in the future everything will go 20% to the first pillar, but at the same time the draft states that everything that has already been collected in the second pillar at the expense of the first pillar can be taken out. That's the main complaint. The Chancellor of Justice has also told you that this is an unequal treatment of people. You take funds from the first pillar into the second pillar and tell people, yes, pay ordinary loans or fast loans, or give it to children, as you said here. Then why do you stop at only 4%? Why don't you tell me to take out everything you've already collected in the first pillar? Then there would be even more tax and VAT. That is why my question is: have you also done calculations in the Ministry of Finance in the view of the next RES, how much more will be collected next year and the next year on income tax and VAT, which the government will happily be able to disperse?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U191	Thank you. No, it's not an incomprehensible piece of shit. The question is, you don't want to accept it, but you do understand what it says. I think it is perfectly clear what we are doing and what the result is. We may differ in our view as to whether we like or not the result. I also argue that this is an unequal treatment. At all, when we're talking about the letter from the Chancellor of Justice that he sent me, I say the Chancellor of Justice is looking in like a spyglass from the wrong end. After all, all this unequal treatment begins with the creation of the current system, with the creation of this system, and basically, people were treated very differently. And now, in the case of these people who have been treated very differently, we are going to be able to start treating them equally again, in principle, this is an unworkable requirement. The starting point is not that we treat people unequally today, but that the starting point is that people were treated unequally 17 years ago. And this inequality is in favour of the various pillars on different issues. In the case of the first pillar, solidarity speaks in favour of the first pillar, but in the case of the second pillar, the 'boosting' of better-serving people is in their favour. Here was the statement that we are going to finance the first pillar from the second pillar. In fact, it is exactly the opposite: the second pillar is currently funded from the first pillar. And the answer to the question is, have we done the calculations? Certain calculations have, of course, been made. The lot of these calculations is in the sense that we have scenarios ready when the departures are 10%, 20%, 30%, how much the state budget will have an impact. We have even made calculations on the extent to which the state budget will have an impact if there are more entrants instead of quitters. And it is clear that if there are more leavers than joiners, this will have a positive budgetary impact on both the state budget position and nominal value. The baseline scenario is that leavers lose about a quarter of their money and income tax revenues increase once, not annually, by about 200 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U192	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U193	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Finance! In what way has the government assessed how the voluntaryisation of the second pension pillar and other proposed changes will help to solve the problem of the modest return on the second pillar referred to earlier by the government departments? In other words, how do you guarantee higher pensions with these changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U194	Thank you. Higher pensions and higher rates of return are, of course, two separate issues. They may be related, but they are two separate topics. A higher pension is guaranteed by this, or our clear desire is that if we have more leavers than those who join the second pillar, the amount of funds that are transferred to the second pillar of the pension component of the social tax will be released. This amount is expected to remain. It depends on what kind of income people leave and on how many of these leavers there are within the range of 50 to 100 million. This slop, I understand, is big, but let's say these are the upper and lower bounds of the probability scenario. And that's all going to increase the pensions of the first pillar. We can do that now. Pensions are, in principle, rising quite rapidly following the reform of the pension system. How the rate of return improves, I touched that a little bit once. If you create real competition in the market for customers, customers will be able to vote with their feet, then it will force product providers to convert their products, their investment plans, to look for better productivity. Simply put, for the first time in 20 years, they have to get their feet out of their stomachs and make a little effort.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U195	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U196	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister! You said that the current pension system is detrimental to the poorer people, people who earn average wages or below. I believe you actually know that in recent years, the calculation of the first pillar pension has been made more and more in solidarity, which means that people who receive an average or close-to salary, medical workers, rescuers, teachers, policemen, and the Urmas, who work theoretically on the construction of your house under an oral guarantee contract, are living up in their old age for practically an envelope salary. Do you think that's fair?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U197	Thank you. There are a large number of people who, during their lives, have paid very little taxes or have not paid at all, such as immigrants who have recently arrived in the country. Not everyone works on my house. There's a whole bunch of them, and that's what we're keeping up, that's what we call a social solidarity safety net. After all, it is quite clear that the state of Estonia offers this safety net, that you are guaranteed the most basic medical care and, even at least, a national pension. The question now is what kind of pension system we are building, how much it takes into account the amount of your income over your lifetime. This is the place where we have political choices and disputes. As you rightly mentioned, the first pillar has been made increasingly solidarity over the years. Less and less are taken into account how much your income has been. It works clearly to the detriment of people with higher incomes. In other words, the higher your income, the more you hold up those with lower incomes by supporting a social safety net. The second pension pillar in its current and future form will take more account of your income. Even now and in the future, the second pension pillar will boost your income, especially if your income is high. Practically no leverage, if your income is low. This means that if you earn an average salary or below, there is a practical difference between this difference and the difference is marginal in whether you're in the second pillar, or if you're only in the first pillar, there isn't. And if someone tells me that in 30 years he's drawing a graph that shows that either way or by the way it's more accurate, I'm saying that this graph is basically a function.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U198	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U199	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In your earlier reply, you mentioned that since in 17 years the pension collection has failed, you will try in the next 17 years and, if you fail, you will reconsider. This actually suggests that you have not understood that one pension system should be collected for at least 40 years in order to work properly, as it works in the old Europe. This experiment should not be accomplished in this way. The second concern I have is that, fortunately, you also managed to mark it, that these two pillars worked together. The decision taken in principle meant that the first pillar would become more solidarityable. We voted in the Riigikogu and decided in favour of it. The second pillar, however, provides an opportunity to benefit from the success of making a great deal of money. This logic applies that when you retire, income could represent as much of the person's income as possible during work. Please tell me, what is the real purpose of this reform of yours, or 'breaking up'? Unfortunately, there is only one goal that can be seen through here: pumping more money into the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U200	Thank you. There are many different pension systems in the world, with different flexibility and opportunities. Of course, we want to compare ourselves as much as possible with countries that are more prosperous than we are. But it is no secret that, in practically all wealthy countries, pension systems are on an unsustainable course. Whether they have succeeded, how well they work will be seen in the near future and in the coming decades. What is forgotten about discussing this whole system is the fact that we have been the last not quite ten years, but in recent years we have been in a completely unprecedented economic environment where interest is zero or negative. And in this situation, the mantra that was repeated in the early 2000s to save and invest and invest in compound interest will make money for you, and in 40 years the money will grow, just not true. In fact, it is the opposite: for at least five years now, the unprecedented system of monetary economy that governs the world has mercilessly punished savers, but you are simply pushing forward to save and save. That is, while we see how savers are punished. It doesn't make sense, it doesn't make sense, it's an inflexible dogmatic approach, throwing your money into the wind. We won't do it. In fact, we have forced people to do so. We order, we take away money from them by the power of the state, say that now you are going to save, even though this money is not actually being saved, but it is being spent. I don't remember the other half of the question. What was that? I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U201	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U202	Honourable Chairman! Good minister! As we know, our pension system is made up of three pillars, and now your government is making a century of piggyback and one pillar is to a large extent demolishing. The current pension system is losing balance. Neither your speech nor the explanatory memorandum to the draft has revealed whether the government is planning any further changes to the pension system.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U203	Thank you. Come on, if we're planning a mess, we're not gonna preach them. I come back to the same thing that I just told Urmas Kruus: things have changed dramatically. This isn't a century crap. This is, I think, one of the biggest and best reforms in a very long row of Estonian governments, not just this government. And we're not gonna break anything. I will continue to assure you that we will not break anything, we will not destroy anything, we will not take anything away from anyone, except for the fact that management companies still received large amounts of taxpayers' money without effort. The possibility of getting that automatic money, we're gonna make it smaller, but we're not gonna stop that, either. In changed circumstances, we need to be flexible and look at the benefits of these changed circumstances. If we have to, we'll change something. If you answer the question in essence, then after the reform has started, it is very likely that in a few years' time it will be necessary to carry out some sort of review of whether it is reasonable to make the second and third pillars one, or whether it is reasonable to give the third pillar a completely different character than it is now. Perhaps you could add some kind of voluntary occupational pension, which is common in several countries. These decisions and choices still lie ahead of us. We all understand quite clearly that if we do this pension reform, there will first be a wave of people leaving the system. Probably with it, there'll be another wave, because there'll be more people coming into the system who can't join today. And then there's going to be some sort of equilibrium point. Humans will continue to move, but in much smaller amounts or in smaller volumes than after the initial start-up phase. And after this point of balance, we will have a new understanding of how the second pillar will proceed, what the returns and products are, what the behaviour of people is, what the behaviour of financial institutions is. On this basis, we will be able to make some adjustments if necessary. On this point, I agree that the current system has been dealt with several times afterwards and that these studies have actually produced a positive result. I think we all understand that this system will also need to be worked out a little later if there are bottlenecks that we may not foresee today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U204	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U205	Thank you, good manager. Being in government is a responsibility for every party and every individual. Responsibility for Estonia's future. And it is the responsible government that looks forward at a long time, who will also think about what Estonia will look like in decades' time and whether it will hand over to the next government a stronger Estonia or a weaker one. With your involvement, the government is once again weakening Estonia, breaking down things that can be considered Estonia's strength. This is done with the bill before us today, and it was also done with a budget that has always come to an end and which has now been driven into a big minus. My question is: do you sense that you may enjoy this profession, but once you hand Estonia over, Estonia is in worse shape than it is today?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U206	Thank you. First of all, by 2020, we did not put the budget in a big negative position, but we brought it out of the negative. True, it is still a negative budget, a deficit budget. Secondly, how do you say... We all remember that Taavi Clothes really liked being Prime Minister, he obviously enjoyed it. I would say that ministerial work is an exceptionally hard job, a long working day, a lot of stress, but I really admit that I like to do this job because I can do the things I've wanted to do for a long time. In this respect, I feel quite clearly responsible to Estonia and look at the long plan. And what I think about when I think about a long plan is that Estonia would be a hardworking, wealthy and secure nation state. And for that, we need to do a lot of different things, but one of the things we're doing is that we're going to stop fattening up multinational corporations through our pension system.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U207	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U208	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The leaders of the coalition, including your speeches, have repeatedly said that you justify breaking the second pillar with the desire to give people greater freedom and discretion to invest their money in order to increase it into retirement. And it has been accompanied by rhetoric that probably people can do it better and successfully beat fund returns. I have a simple question for you as a financial expert, I would like to hear your opinion and your recommendation. The dividend forecast for Swedbank was SEK 14,2 per share. Yesterday morning it became known that it was vangered at 8.2 crowns per share. My question: did the stock price rise or drop to this news yesterday and what you would have done yesterday morning, bought or sold it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U209	Thank you. I don't know, there are probably different views and different arguments made during this debate, and there are certainly some quotes from members of the government or coalition who are quite convinced that all people are able to invest better than professional investment specialists. I didn't say that. But the answer to the question of what to do with such news depends on whether you mean a long or short position. And that is now really the question of the person's own sense of what he is going to do in the market: whether he wants to be in that position for a long time. Knowing what are the important reasons for the recent fall in Swedbank's share price, it is not a big deal to do with these so-called economic indicators, but there are other reasons for it, I would sit back calmly if I had a long position. But I'm not sharing any investment advice here right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U210	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U211	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Finance! You have resented the Chancellor of Justice, who is actually doing his job, in answer to this question. I now come to the National Audit Office, which has practically asked the same questions as the Chancellor of Justice has pointed out. In fact, the National Audit Office has pointed out whether the possibility of giving people more freedom of choice in managing their pension funds has been considered, but without allowing them to withdraw the accumulated money from the pension system earlier in their old age, i.e. to allow withdrawal only when the retirement age arrives. Secondly, have the drafters also considered the possibility of allowing a partial withdrawal of funds, continued collection on a smaller scale or, if they so wish, a voluntary increase in the contribution from their salaries to pensions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U212	Thank you. Yes, it is true that all these options have been considered. All these options have been considered, especially the latter. But in the latter case, we are actually talking about, say, expanding the possibilities of the third pillar. You can determine for yourself how much of your income you add as a percentage. This was considered and it was found that this could be done in the future, but not now. The proposal to withdraw part of the money was also on the table, but for various reasons, partly due to technical complexity, it was rejected. But there was also, let's say, a substantive question that if we leave a person half-in, half-out, he doesn't really know whether his payments to the first pillar will fully recover or not. We're gonna make things a lot more confusing, complicated for a person. The possibility that people can withdraw money only when they are retired, well, is essentially making the existing system somewhat more flexible. But I want to point out the principle in our draft that we are actually directing people through tax choices to save as long as possible and to withdraw money only at retirement age. And it's so-so it's three to the power. If people leave the second pillar before the retirement age and want to withdraw all the money at once, they will pay 20% of their income tax as they pay for each income. When people withdraw their money at retirement age at once, they pay 10% of their income tax, i.e. under preferential treatment. And when people take out their collected second pillar money at retirement age in part or over a long period of time, they pay 0% income tax. What do we think this will do? Firstly, people who have been collecting for a relatively long time, who have accumulated a relatively large amount, are waiting until retirement age and are likely not to withdraw this amount at the same time, but to make a 'long schedule'. With these tax options, we give a clear signal to people that it is more sensible to do so, but in the end, everything is a personal choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U213	Jürgen Ligi, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U214	Thank you. Mr. Helme, you said you enjoyed your profession. I can see that. But you can also see that you do not enjoy the knowledge needed for this profession. You have been mistaken here on a number of points, answering questions concerning the general economy, financial markets and pension systems. You've completely ignored the draft explanatory statement, your own department's analysis. However, you do love to quote Indrek Neivelt, who has not shown himself to be an expert so far, but, on the contrary, has been wrong when it comes to all the expert analyses. Please prove that you actually know more than the pension system. Please tell me how the creation of the second pillar affected the first pillar and how leaving the second pillar affects the first pillar of the pensioner, on the one hand, at the macro level and, on the other, at the individual level. You're both lost today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U215	Thank you. I thought I mentioned Neivelt once. And I would ask the same question that Neivel was asking in his article, reject his calculations. Nobody's done that. That's not it! Now, the question of how the creation of the second pillar affected the first pillar. After all, it was the effect that the 20% share of the social tax collected as a part of the pension began to move, let's say, out of the state budget. This reduced the state budget resources and made the payments of the first pension pillar smaller. Completion of the second pillar fully restores the pension component of the person's social security contributions to the first pillar. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U216	A colleague and a good friend, Jürgen! [[Jürgen Ligi says something in the hall.]] Let's not hold this debate this way. Aivar Sõerd, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U217	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I still expected a more professional response from you, as Minister of Finance, to the question of the impact of amending the law on pensions. More specifically, the question is how the impact of this draft on future pensions can be positive if the pension system as a whole reduces the amount of money used for pensions. You're saying that money moves from the second pillar to the first pillar, but it doesn't change the whole amount of money. However, pension money reduces the total amount of money that goes into consumption. That is why I am asking how, in a context of declining money, the impact on pensions can be positive. And I also ask that if the pension funds achieved a 9.5% return last year, whether private individuals, if they start investing through an investment account, will achieve a higher or lower return.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U218	Thank you. That's a good idea to start at the back end. It is impressive when a government-level decision has been taken in a country that we are going to reform the second pension pillar, because we are not satisfied with the existing rate of return, then suddenly an unprecedentedly high rate of return can be achieved. I'm impressed. Impressive! What else will happen if this release actually happens and the banks need to start working for their clients? I'm extremely optimistic. Yeah, I agree with that calculation, that if we end up with 2 plus 4 or 4 plus 2 in any direction we say the diagram, if this plus 2 disappears out of there, if you leave the second column, that simplistically means that the entire column system will have 2% less money. But what you're not putting aside here is that this plus 2 isn't really going to disappear. After all, this +2 remains for people, and they make it spin into the economy and increase their assets at the end of their lives. You cannot only measure the amount of a person's pension at the end of his life, but you still have to ask how much a person's property is at the end of his life. I'm saying this property is definitely not getting any smaller.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U219	Urve Tiidus, another question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U220	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Today's second-reading bill has a bit of a gambling smell. The possible consequences of these decisions are uncertainty and dependence on chance. The Prime Minister also admitted here in Question Time that no one knows how people behave, how much is taken out, how much remains, how these decisions affect the whole system and the specific funds, etc. True, we cannot and will never anticipate all the developments ahead, even if quantum computers come to help. However, uncertainty can be reduced or even eliminated by supplementing the basic information we have by creating and controlling hypothetical answers. There are many such mechanisms. Of course, using all the information available, the wise course of action is to draw firm conclusions. It is also possible to accept that the costs associated with exits from the pillar are all punished by those who remain there, as one critic said colorfully. Will you please turn that problem off? And maybe you have an estimate of how many still intend to leave.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U221	There's nothing left on the icers in this sense, it's intimidation. The Fund cannot operate at all unless it has liquidity guarantees. Currently, the exchange of funds is also allowed. In theory, one fund may lose 100% of its customers on the day of the fund change and it must have liquid resources to ensure that it is secured. That's the way it is. And the Financial Inspectorate measures it. So what we're talking about is that after leaving the fund, the shares of people who stay there lose value aren't true. And anyway, in order to level out possible movements of situations where some positions need to come out faster than planned, we first extended this period and, secondly, gave the fund the possibility of a liquidity loan. We do not have this concern in essence; the market tells us that this concern is broken. Now, uncertainty and chance are also within the current system. In fact, the second pillar is an investment instrument and in the case of an investment instrument all risks exist. It could be a loss, just like we did ten years ago. So if so many have said here that we need a sense of insurance for the future, then there has been no certainty in the past, nor will there be any certainty in the future for the second pillar anyway. It is an investment instrument that has its own market risks in any case, some of them predictable, some of them unpredictable. And one more question was the leavers. We are not talking about the leavers in terms of the number of people, we are talking about the leavers in terms of the number of money. And our base scenario says that the quitters are in the order of 25%, but it may not be in the beginning right now, but let's say, there's a wave at first, and then the rest over some period.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U222	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U223	Thank you. Mr. Minister! You've made some funny and strange statements here, but I wouldn't be talking about them. In history and in social media, it can be further discussed. Instead, I want to ask you that you announced a little while ago that saving is not right. When you answered one of the previous questions, you said very vaguely what further changes might arise in the pension system. Instead, what I ask is: what do you think would be the ideal pension system, or the system of coping with an elderly person? Where would a person's income come from when he is old, say, in 2030 and 2050, for example? Let's put aside economic conditions here and all that, assuming nothing catastrophic happens.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U224	Thank you. I would continue to develop this idea and ask if the negative interest rates are a cataphasic situation or not. There are a whole bunch of people who say that something more catastrophic can come up with the idea that negative interest rates have very basically changed the whole dynamic. And they're gonna last us a long time, you can see that. The printing or quantitative easing of money will continue for a long time, as can be seen. So I will stick to the view that the current monetary system in the world is mercilessly punishing savers. But I don't see the point in describing the perfect world. I'm conservative, and I realize that the perfect world doesn't exist, that's the world we live in. And in this world we live in, the pension system is not ideal, and if we leave it unchanged, the situation will get worse, not better. I don't understand the point of departure, so don't change anything, because it'll get worse. It's gonna get worse anyway, and if we make a difference, we're convinced it's gonna get better.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U225	Toomas Kivimägi, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U226	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Mr. Minister! You mentioned quite nicely that you are directing people to withdraw money from retirement, and you also brought some arguments to confirm it. At the same time, there are a number of deadlines in the draft, which are unambiguous: withdraw the money now, and best if you do so before the local elections next year, i.e. from 1 September 2021. And it also says that you are directing people to withdraw money at retirement age, the fact that there are actually two different deadlines. One is when you can submit applications to withdraw money, which is January 1, 2021, and the other is when you can submit "change" applications, i.e. you can ask to raise this money to an investment account. It's a whole three months later, from April 1st. It's about the same as offering an ice cream with one hand and asking him if you want that ice cream now or you're willing to invest that 1 euro in four months in the hope that in ten years you may get two ice creams instead of that 1 euro. Why are these deadlines different? It would be very natural if there were the same date and if technically not, why not 1 April 2021?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U227	Thank you. Yes, the first applications can start in January 2021. And if you submit this application between 1 January and 31 March, you will receive your departure money in September. If you do this after 31 March, you'll get your money in November. The personal investment account that was mentioned here will really not be valid until April. The deadline is set because this change is the most recent in the IT development sequence. First, your IT development needs to be done by the Finnish Centre for Pensions, then you have to do the development of pension funds that are linked to, or derived from, the Finnish Centre's solution, and then you can start a personal investment account. In fact, all these developments are carried out by the private sector. The development of the tax office and the development of the Social Insurance Board are also separately major developments. There are banks that say that they will be ready early, there are banks that say that they will not be ready by 1 January. I see clearly such a positive scenario that there are certain banks that really will be able to complete it quickly and thereby gain an advantage to attract their customers. And I am sure that this competition will also force other players on the market and, in fact, this product will be finished earlier by everyone, but some of the parties have asked for this deadline to be longer, given the order of work or the bottleneck. There was a question of why this whole implementation could not be done four months later. There are several different reasons. One reason is that if we did this, there would still be someone who would say that you could give us another transitional period, see the others start in April, but we can start in June or whenever. The second reason is that we have postponed this reform for practically a year and a half from our original timetable. If you recall, we actually wanted the pension reform to be adopted within the previous year's number and to take effect from that year. We have asked the market participants, given the various technical reasons which have made a very high degree of concession, about the deadlines, whether it is feasible if we set these deadlines. And that is what has been answered. We have no reason to delay one more day than we have already delayed the reform. It has been argued here that we are going to reform with a view to local elections. This was not the preference of the government coalition to make this reform on these dates. Our original schedule provided for this to be done at least a year earlier. So it's just shifted there, let's say, because of the inevitable time frame of work. And either it's unfortunate or it's good, we'll find out after the election.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U228	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U229	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Helme! You didn't answer Andres Sut's question about how much a pension would be if the taker of the second pillar spent it. I'd be happy to help you with that answer. The person receiving the median salary, who has worked for 40 years and started collecting money in the second pillar 17 years ago, would receive a pension of EUR 430 per month today, but that means that half of it will get even less. Do you think it's sufficient income in old age?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U230	Yeah, well, if you ask me what's enough for old age, I think there's a lot of different answers. After all, we have a certain minimum standard of living agreed in Estonia. We also have an agreement on what the "substitution" target is. This objective has not been achieved so far, but if the current system is maintained, it will be more distant than approaching. And I haven't seen anyone who says he's gonna get enough money yet. I haven't really seen anyone who thinks he's got enough money yet, and that's all I need. So it's kind of a cognitive question. I repeat: I do not see how continuing with the current system can make things better, but I have at least tried to explain how, in our view, changing the system will make things better. Maybe in short, I'll get it all back together. First of all, much of the money that is currently simply going out of Estonia will remain in Estonia. Whether it stays in Estonia as investments in the Estonian economy or because of consumption or because the tax money collected in Estonia is also paid out in the form of increased pensions, but it remains in Estonia. It's very important. It increases the volume of the Estonian economy, that is, it increases the level of wealth for all of us. Second, when people choose to leave the second pillar, it gives the possibility that the size of their personal belongings will be greater at the end of their life. Thanks to the fact that people have bought more things or larger apartments or houses or whatever, their personal property is larger, they have been able to do so. And that's what's left out in this whole debate at all, they only ask about the state pension. But people may not only live on a national pension if they have more personal property than they have had 40 to 50 years more money to spend according to their wishes. And thirdly, people have the opportunity to invest themselves, perhaps better, perhaps worse than banks do. And fourthly, we are firmly convinced that banks will offer better returns. The proof of that is what I said once before. Now that the pension reform has risen as a theme, see wonder, banks can offer better returns. They will be able to do so in the future, if they still need to work harder to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U231	Katri Raik, please! There's no room. Then Jüri Jaanson, second question please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U232	Dear Minister, First of all, from the definition. The current second pillar system was created as a closed system to supplement the first pillar pension. And that is also the expectation of those who volunteered to join it. This expectation has been that it will be collected for a long time, at least 30, but better than 40 years, and then it will work as it should. Here's the question. You mentioned earlier that it was written in the draft that the funds would be able to borrow up to 25% of the assets, precisely to cover the sums to be paid. The question is, who will bear these transaction costs and interest. Does this not worsen the situation of the fund's remaining shareholders, the holders of the shares in the second pillar?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U233	Thank you. First of all, it's 30 to 40 years. Initially, when the reform was launched, we were told, give time to 30 to 40 years, everything will work well, by then the system will be so capitalised or there will be so much money in it that everything will work as it should. Now the system has worked for 17 years and we are told that it will work as it should in about 40 years' time. It's like a horizon that gets out of the way all the time. No one's arguing about this analysis. There are analyses, different predictions, predictions, here I am putting on the star and saying that with very long-term forecasts and analyses I cannot take very seriously anyway, but no one offers a more optimistic time than the fact that in 2050 we will be more or less able to reach the point that the contributions and disbursements will be in the same order of magnitude. In fact, they're talking about the 2060s, so we're talking about putting an end to the next 40 years. Obviously, this system isn't really working. Now for the liquidity loan. Yes, it must also be pointed out that this is actually a liquidity loan, it is not just a loan, it is a liquidity loan. That means it has its limitations on it. It is intended that, if there are indeed many leavers and the assets are structured in such a way that they are not liquid, it is possible to pay the leavers' sums without the funds having to put their assets in quick sale. We put another measure aside for fund managers, the same five-month buffer. Now the fund managers have to make a torch, which is the most advantageous way to pay out the money. The question was who's gonna pay for it. I guess it's just as it is so far: the people whose money makes this whole thing pay off, so-called savers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U234	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U235	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, As you said in answering my previous question, with money taken out of the second pillar, a person can do whatever he wants. That means he can pay off his fast loans, he can take his family on a southern trip, or he can buy a vacuum cleaner. We know that the state has not only invested itself in the second pillar, but also in order for the person to receive a higher pension in the future. Did you discuss in the government such an option that the state will withdraw its invested money before a person starts channelling it into consumption? At present, it seems to be unfair to those who have not collected in the second pillar and the state has not contributed to them either.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U236	Thank you. Yes, we did. It's practically impossible or at least extremely difficult to do. Let's start with that, in fact, I have already said this before one time, the state has privatized this part of the social tax already before. When we talk about the injustice or imbalance in this system or how one or the other scenario affects people's retirement, all these decisions have actually been taken 20 years ago. Then we were all put on a different course, under different treatment and in the hands of different results. You just don't stick that pasta back in the tube. Now the question is, can we make sure that we only give the person that he paid for 2%? And what can we do with that 4% if we don't want to pay people off? There are therefore two options: we should either transfer it to the general state budget in some way or transfer it to the individual's first pension pillar, which is extremely difficult to take back, given that the value of money has changed considerably in the meantime. It is impossible to reverse all of this in such a way that no calculations go completely jealous so that no leverages come in, so that no cons are amplified in any way. So we didn't see an opportunity to do it in such a way that justice would be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U237	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U238	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! You will probably understand that moving a brick in a wall affects the stability of the entire wall, and as a minister, it is also your responsibility to shift the brick that is responsible. What is your recommendation or guidance for those of the second pillar who are of working age and fulfil the constitutional family's obligation to assist, both with their children and with their elderly parents, jointly bearing 80% of the total cost of general care? And that 80% is 53 million that can't be put into retirement savings. It is certainly not possible to withdraw from these obligations, although it is possible to tighten the belt at the expense of its future savings without contributing to any pension savings. These working - age people live in the knowledge that their children are therefore forced to support them in their old age and at the same time train their children. What is your recommendation to them and their children, and how do you, as Minister of Finance of the Government, intend to break this social vicious circle?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U239	Thank you. This is, of course, a vital example. And there are many such people in Estonia. And the vital sad fact is, as a rule, they get quite a small salary. But now we're getting to this existing system, you know, the crime or the injustice. In fact, the system in place is that if a person puts money in the second pillar for about 40 years of his or her small salary, his or her final pension contribution is different from the one he or she would only receive money from the first pillar, to a very small extent. And if it's even different, there's a very clear risk that there's a difference to her detriment. With this argument to the old system, to defend, as I see it, I do not see an opportunity. If you ask me how we solve the problem of more support for family care, then certainly not with pension reform. There are other solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U240	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U241	Thank you. Honourable Vice President! Good minister! Your answers to the financial specialists in this Chamber convince me that it does not really make sense to ask you questions about finances, because there will be no adequate answers. You're being watched by experts, so you might want to try harder. The answer to Jürgen's question, your reaction to it was the most obvious. But we have not actually heard what the purpose of dismantling this pension pillar is. There are many unanswered questions, but I am convinced that the politician still has some initial conviction, some value assessment to build on in his initiative. However, the politician Jakko Väli associated with your party said one thing that made me understand the demolishing mentality. He said, "Why save if, in 30 years' time, we may have rung again in Estonia." Is that what you have in mind? For as many times as you say, do not spare, do not believe in the future. Why don't you believe in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U242	Thank you. First of all, I don't know who connects us to our party, Jakko Field. There's no connection. Those people who connect, they're gonna do the pot. Secondly, I hear here for several times that you have not heard the justification for the reform. Well, I'd say you are. You just haven't listened or you don't like what you're hearing. I've said it so many times that in some sense a dilemma arises, whether I have to talk it over again in some new version or just give it up. These are still the same arguments that the current system will not do what it had to do, nor will it guarantee greater or better pensions in the future, regardless of what your charts show as wishful thinking in 30 to 40 years. And the current economic environment or, let's say, the monetary economy is hostile to such savings. Now, if you ask me if I do not believe in Estonia, I would say the opposite: it seems to me that you do not believe in Estonia. This is going a little bit out of the financial perspective of today's subject, but I assume that all reasonable people will understand that no solidarity system can be maintained if you do not have people. Maybe the Japanese are making up some kind of robot, maybe it's gonna work, but basically there's still gonna have to be another generation that's gonna do these responsibilities, this, let's say, doing the work that's necessary to keep society going. And some people, a lot of people have convinced themselves that money is replacing children. If we put the money aside, the problem is broken. No, it's not. No, I'm not. And in addition, we give our money to someone else who makes it serve or work somewhere outside Estonia. Why do we have to accept that? I don't see why we have to accept that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U243	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U244	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I would like to clarify one of your earlier responses in the interests of the verbatim report. In response to one of our fellow Members, you said that citizens could also give it to politicians by withdrawing money. I would like to understand whether this debate is such that the government has put its eyephones and earplugs on itself, so that no questions can be heard in this Chamber and does not want to answer them, nor does it listen to the opinions of experts. Does it, like, speak the language that coalition partners expect gifts?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U245	Thank you. It seems to me that the cuffs and cuffs are used here by the opposition, too, but all right. No, I made fun of Kranich earlier, but you didn't get the joke. Sorry, it was a bad joke!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U246	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U247	Thank you. It's worth being careful with jokes on that remote. But I'm gonna go ahead with my first question. Indeed, perhaps the "unreasonable hacker" was the wrong wording. It may not be clear to you what is really going on in this bill. You've repeatedly said here that you don't understand. But it's okay. I'm just trying to understand your misunderstanding. You are currently allowing people to withdraw 4%, and in the future you will no longer allow this 4% to be used in any way, you say that it will go into all pension insurance as 20%. How do you think that's justified in any way? People have been collecting for 20 years, and then you promise to take it out. If you have somehow been able to explain why such inequality is being introduced, then perhaps you will try to respond briefly to all these experts, those who referred to the violations of the Constitution. How do you justify that they have all misunderstood, from the Chancellor of Justice and the National Audit Office, but you have understood everything correctly?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U248	Thank you. How do I explain that people can take this money out? I think that the justification is obvious: it is their money. That's their money! This money was privatized when the pension system was created, and that money turned into their money. It's their investment share in the fund. According to any legal advice, it's already private money. And now we're gonna expand this money, make it more free. No one is obliged to take it out; anyone can continue saving. Even more wonderful: those people who can't save in this way now can start it if they want to. No one is being taken away from anything, but opportunities are being added. Now the inequality. If there is any inequality here, then this inequality was probably created then I have already described it when the current system was created. And this inequality we're going to reduce a little bit. Or we give people a chance not to tolerate this inequality in the future if they do not want to tolerate it. What would I say about these experts? After all, I have said this before that, first of all, these experts are talking about the same points. Looking at the contents of these points, we can see that they are all basically political or ideological statements. Legally, it is possible to contest or reject or reject any plea of constitutionality very clearly. There are many experts, it is absolutely not true that all experts speak the same way. There are a lot of experts who say otherwise, but you don't want to see, hear or admit them. I guess that's pretty common in the political war on trenches when things have already gone as far as they've gone. We're in the middle of a vote of confidence here. Nobody around here can talk anybody out of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U249	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U250	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Mr. Minister! You have said many times from this speaker that collecting is pointless because interest is negative and inflation eats the value of money. I don't think you've noticed that the members of the author party of the idea of dismantling the second pillar have been showing themselves for several days in jumpers with the letter 'Money is Free'. Of course, the meme 'Money Needs' is spreading online. I understand that political parties need money, but people are still told as smokescreens that they need the freedom to invest their own money. The regulation of the pension investment account is an important part of the draft that you have submitted. Have you read your bill with the idea that it makes sense to collect money on your pension account? Or is it pointless? Or are you just in a schizophrenic situation? How would you diagnose yourself and your views?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U251	Thank you. Well, when I start diagnosing myself, I'm sure I'll have a diagnosis. I don't think I've said it's pointless to collect money. I said it was punishable. In the current economic environment, savers are being punished and the meaning of this action is questionable, isn't it? But this is primarily because we have a situation where people who set aside money are essentially penalised financially. And there's got to be something to respond to. We cannot tell people that we will force you to put money aside for the next 40 years, knowing very well that this money will shrink. In the course of this forced set aside, their money is shrinking. And at the same time, they say with the next breath, but it'll make you richer in 40 years. That's ridiculous! But as for whether money is available or money is needed, I come back to the fact that I have not yet seen a person who thinks he does not need more money. I'm sure everyone needs more money. And I suppose that also applies to political parties that everyone needs money. But this is a vicious assumption that we are doing it out of the reform's desire to get more money into the state budget or to buy people with money somehow. It's spoiled thinking. This is not our motivation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U252	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U253	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I don't know if you're deliberately lying or what it is. It cannot be logical for you to say that because the second pension pillar was created, people received fewer pensions than the first pension pillar. It doesn't make any sense. And neither does it make sense for you to try to tell people that the first pillar of those leaving the second pillar will be restored. No recovery, no return to the past, in that case it will recover in the future. This seems completely illogical from the mouth of one of the finance ministers. The third thing that makes me think: you've said several times that it's a terrible crime, that the deposits are now so much bigger than the payments, and that this crap may last, I don't know, several decades. Haven't you realized that the age of the entrants is also different, that the younger collection periods are longer? This means that it should be purely mathematically that way. But what amazes me especially is that you are trying to make it clear that even if the money in pension funds in Estonia decreases by a few billion, let's say this, with regard to withdrawal, it all fits into the Estonian economy at the same time. Why do you hate those foreign markets that are clearly designed to mitigate risks?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U254	Thank you. I don't hate anything or anyone, I'm a totally hate-free person. You can't reverse the past, it's a very good statement, I'm a hundred percent in agreement with that. We fully agree that the accusations or allegations that the current reform is in any way retroactive are not true. The current reform is not retroactive. So there's no turning the past back. True, I understand what was actually meant. Here it was meant that, for the period when the person was in the second pillar, the shares in his first pillar were smaller, and no one would compensate for that. And it doesn't have to be compensated, it can't be done, it wouldn't be fair, because a person's contributions to the second pillar for this period have been made. And in this second pillar, he can decide if he stays there or if he gets the money. But this property doesn't go away, nothing is being taken away from anyone. It is the individual's choice whether he wants to keep this second pillar in parallel with the first one, in which case his first pillar will remain smaller, or whether he wants to eliminate this second pillar, in which case his first pillar will become larger. There's a hole in it, but that hole is compensated by the money he's taken out himself in the meantime. It's a human choice. No one has been taken away, there has been no injustice. It has been said that the first pillar is smaller because of the second pillar. I understand what you're all saying. You are all talking about pension payments from the first pillar being governed by the Pension Act, indexation, and this is not directly related to how much social tax is collected. That's what I've said here many times. But the fact is, if we had shifted all the social tax to the first pillar, we could have a higher pension payout from the first pillar, because there would be a surplus. And you could have raised your pensions, changed the indexation somehow so that your pension would be higher. No one can argue with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U255	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U256	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! It is clear that this reform of yours is made up, it seems to me, by an evil genius. When people are given the opportunity to withdraw money, to get money, of course, a large proportion of the people will take it out, first and foremost, the poorest group that is going to spend that money. Of course, the government takes tax and VAT from there, and then when the election is over, when the party is over, it will be a weekday. Those people who have spent their money, their pension savings, will retire at one point and fall into poverty. What do you think they're gonna blame for their troubles, who do you think they're gonna blame, if they've ever made a stupid decision to take out that money and spend it, or if they're gonna blame the government in power?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U257	Thank you. Well, if you believe your opposition colleagues in the Reform Party, I certainly cannot be behind the drafting of this law, because I certainly cannot be either evil or genius. But the elections, I hope, will also take place, for example, in 2040 when it comes to the 'grey day' that everyone here is drawing for me. Everyone knows what's going on in 2040 or 2060, and, well, I hope there's still an election. I do not agree with the statement that, in the current reforms of the pension system, we will increase the risk of poverty for people in the near or later, distant future. On the contrary, in the near future, we will certainly increase people's pension income, that is a fact, even none of you here are arguing against. What happens in 30 or 50 years is so speculative, but I would argue that people will not fall into poverty, but will actually increase the level of wealth in Estonia as a result of these changes and, as a result, pensions will be higher.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U258	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U259	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. A couple of questions ago, you said it was corrupt thinking when we thought that the second pillar of the pension would be broken in order to get money into the state budget. But about an hour ago, you repeatedly said in your answers that due to the second pillar's payments, today's pensions from the first pillar cannot be raised much, and that if, thanks to those leaving the second pillar, this money is reduced, you will immediately raise your pensions. That you have this plan and that these pensions are about to rise. For me, those two things don't add up. At one point, you say that you need the money from leaving the second pillar to raise today's pensions, but some time later you say it's corrupt thinking when we say you want to get money into the budget. Could you explain this situation, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U260	Thank you. In short, it is useful to connect to a pleasant one. But the reform of the pension system is linked, as everyone here talks and understands, to a longer plan than one, two or three years. In our opinion, the current system does not serve the people of Estonia well and is not a sensible solution. That's why we're changing it, and we think we're making it better. After all, it is clear that if the state receives more taxes, there are two options that the state can do. It reduces the overall tax burden so that it does not incur this surplus or increases any public service. Our choice is to increase public services. But I will still come back to that, so why should we continue to send our money abroad, where it doesn't do us any good? Why should we continue to withdraw money from the Estonian economy without giving us anything back? That's the motivation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U261	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U262	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Finance! While the Isamaa National Library held a speech meeting and an information meeting on funded pensions, which is also being discussed here today, gentlemen Seeder and Sester could not answer when asked about the taxation of people with reduced working capacity or who are completely unable to work, if they need to withdraw this money from the second pillar because of their health. Did you not consider the possibility that if those people who are in a very difficult state of health wish to withdraw their savings from the second pillar, they could get it without tax? What does the bill say this is taxation? Perhaps you will explain the substance of the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U263	Thank you. It's nice to be asked about the contents. Yes, people with a lack of or reduced capacity to work will also be able to complete their second pillar and withdraw money, and they will have a zero income tax rate regardless of their age.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U264	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U265	Thank you. Good minister! I'm going to have to correct some financial lies here again. You said that the rate of return is lower than inflation. No, it's not. This is shown by the Ministry of Finance, according to different data. Just one example: Estonia's pension fund index was 87.6% and its inflation rate was 67.8%. Simple math. One euro that was then put in has brought much more back. Leaving the fund, leaving the fund will not reduce productivity, as the fund must be increasingly liquid. Increased liquidity means lower risk, lower risk means lower return. But my question is about the Constitution and the problems Ülle Madise has shown, such as unequal treatment. I quote: 'The draft gives the persons who have joined the mandatory funded pension the option of either continuing the collection or withdrawing the funds (including the social tax allocated by the State) for retirement before their retirement age and using it at their own discretion. People of the same age who have not joined the compulsory funded pension cannot obtain 4% of the social tax paid on their pay. The social tax burden on comparable groups is retroactively different when members of a compulsory funded pension withdraw money. ' Question: How does the draft solve this constitutional problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U266	Thank you. First about this number. I saw a summary that said that in the period from the beginning to, if I remember correctly, by 2018, the combined return on pension funds was 0.8%. Well, that's not what we should be cheering about. Ülle Madise's argument is based on a false assumption. I say again: Ülle Madise looks at this whole system like it's from the wrong end. The unequal treatment was triggered when the current system was created. After that, people are already in a completely unequal situation, they are in completely different situations. He, by the way, assumes or demands that we treat those people who are in a completely unequal situation [equal treatment], who, by the way, came into this unequal situation as a result of their personal choice when they were born before 1983. They decided which system they wanted to go on, and made a choice. I'm sure you're all convinced that they made a completely conscious and profoundly thoughtful choice, and that's why they ended up in completely different situations. And now someone has to tell us that we have to achieve some kind of equal treatment for these different groups. This request is not justified, it is absolutely clear. This statement that we are creating some kind of unequal treatment here is simply not grounded.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U267	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U268	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! I'm a little confused. Today, as soon as you are asked a question and referred to a black scenario or a negative forecast, you have said mostly that it is impossible to predict such things and that there is no crystal ball. At the same time, you have firmly stated that something will happen and that nothing will happen. A moment ago, or a moment ago, about half an hour ago, in answer to Mr Urve Tiidus' question, you said that I certainly stress: the pension reform will certainly not affect those people who choose to remain in the second pillar. But my question. If it happens now that people start taking their money out of the second pillar at a high rate, and so the value of the shares in the pillar begins to decline, does the government have a plan B for this? And what do you say to those people who choose to remain in the second pillar?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U269	Thank you. First of all, I told you before that this should not actually happen. We have a number of risk mitigation methods against this situation in this draft. And third, I still don't go along at all with the fact that if you have black glasses for the future, I have pink or green glasses for the future. I'm just saying it's pointless when it's 30 years. We don't even want to look back 15 years or 20 years, these numbers don't care, although they're factual numbers, they're collected by statistics. But let's not look at these numbers. Let's not ask what was promised when the things we have today started to do. The prophecies that were then made have virtually not proved true; everything has been misplaced. Demographic predictions were missed five years ago, but today we are told that we know demography 30 years ahead. I don't take any luck if there's such a debate, it's pointless.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U270	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U271	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Supporters of the draft have referred to the desire to trust more people's choices in preparing for their pensions and to increase their sense of responsibility in securing their pensions. Question: why does the draft not contain any provision on the responsibility of people who have spent their savings on, for example, buying TV or phones and distinguish them from people who have made a reasonable investment or have continued to collect?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U272	Thank you. But I'd ask you back... Well, I can't answer what I'm asking. However, we do not currently have any such provision that would impose the liability of funds if they were to invest incorrectly and have a negative return, or if they were to go up with their own. Then who's responsible? There is no such responsibility, no one is responsible. We don't trust people, we trust any institutions. People are responsible for their decisions with their own skin. They were responsible when they decided whether they would join the second pillar or not to join the second pillar when the time was still there, and they would also be responsible now if they decided whether they would continue or leave. People are responsible for their own lives, and I think it's right, it's supposed to be responsible. I still absolutely don't understand this argument that we let people die of starvation. No, I'm not. I'm still gonna keep the state pension. Above all, the question is what are these instruments or what kind of system we hope will use to maximize people's pensions in the future. First of all, this is, of course, to a very large extent a question of the world view: which you believe or do not believe in, which you think works better, whether you believe in the broadest possible choices and the most competitive economy possible, or whether you believe that the state must make as many decisions as possible for you, or whether you believe that the state should delegate these decisions for you to some private institution. This is a very much world-viewed question. And second of all, the question is, how serious are you? We've been talking a lot about this, some kind of very long curved predictions. I don't take it seriously, because the projections that have been made in the past with a long cock have all gone to the bush. And if anyone comes to tell me that he knows what's gonna be in 30 years, then, well, it's such an interesting intellectual debate just.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U273	Riina Sikkut, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U274	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Like many colleagues, I must first correct the facts. My first question concerned Section 1 of the Social Tax Act, which states that social tax may be used for pensions and health insurance. You replied that second pillar money was privatized 17 years ago. The Social Tax Act does not specify whether the money is used for pension purposes by the state or by the person himself. It doesn't matter whether something's been privatized or not. What matters is purpose. The money in the second pillar can only be used by a person to supplement his or her pension and therefore Section 1 of the Social Tax Act has been complied with. But the question. Much has been said about the purpose of this reform, but how does the government assess whether the reform has succeeded or failed? Based on what criteria? What should happen if you think the reform has gone well or if the reform has not met expectations?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U275	Thank you. The fundamental'standard' on which we assess it is what was broadly promised with the reform launched 20 years ago. These promises have not been fulfilled. The forecasts made at that time have not been fulfilled either: when the second pillar of the pension system will pay itself or justify itself. The years that came out at the time when I was listening to what is being said today when making predictions, we are told that we are essentially at a zero point. We've been doing all this for 17 years, but we're basically told that we're still at the zero point and give us the same amount of time to start. After all, this gives us a very clear understanding that we have no reason to believe that this is really happening. In 17 years, we may be told to give it another 40 years. The promises that were made at that time, both in terms of return and in terms of when the system would strike a balance, and in terms of what the relationship between the second and first pillars would be, as well as the promises and predictions that were made at that time, are all unreal. That's the standard.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U276	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U277	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Helme! One objection from me, too, first of all, concerns the inequality brought about by the law on funded pensions. People then made their choice knowing that money couldn't be taken out. But now to the question. When you answer every question, you confirm that our business is right, but the mirror image is wrong. Tell me, if the map doesn't match the landscape, which one you think should change, either the map or the landscape.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U278	Thank you. It's such a beautiful allegory. But maybe the map still matches the landscape. Maybe he will. We may just have different paths that we're walking across the terrain.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U279	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U280	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Those who withdraw money from the second pillar and rely only on the first pillar may receive a lower pension in the future. As you just said, we don't know what's going on, but there's a chance. How does the government intend to mitigate the risk that there may be a large number of people in the future who do not receive enough pensions to survive? And what are the solutions for people when possible negative consequences arise?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U281	Thank you. Yeah, people can get less, but they can get more, right? Which one is it? Who knows? Let's put down the risk, well, I don't know, I've said it so many times, first of all, of course, through the fact that the main risk still gets grounded with the state pension component, or the first pillar. That's what we're increasing now, it's increasing. We're talking about some possible scenarios here, but the current picture says very clearly that if we graph current trends, we can see very clearly that the substitution rate is decreasing. We, with our reform, are changing this trend, improving this situation. That's how we're gonna hedge the risk, and we're gonna hedge it in a tangible future, not anywhere, I don't know, mid-century. But if you look at a really big general philosophy picture, there are actually two things that need to be dealt with if we want pensions to be better. Firstly, it is a birth rate and, secondly, an overall growth rate. They both have to be dealt with. I am saying that the best government for Estonia is now to improve these things.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U282	Maris Lauri, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U283	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! As a historian, I understand you're stuck very hard in the past. You're always talking about 17 years old, but go further. It seems to me that you are ticking the times of the Livonian War or the turn of the 17th and 18th centuries, which were pretty ugly in Estonia's history. You're always talking about what's wrong, but I'm gonna ask you once and for all how it should be, how it would be right. We've been asking dozens of questions here, but you stubbornly refuse to explain what should look like. Why are we asking that? Okay, you're not gonna tell me what's gonna happen in ten years, but I'd really like to know what's gonna happen in a year or two so we can appreciate what you're gonna do next in your government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U284	Thank you. For example, yesterday I was in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and I presented the plan that I am going to make next. On pensions, we are planning another extraordinary pension increase. It's also a nice arrangement in the coalition agreement. But if you ask me, what's the good plan, I'm sorry, this bill is the plan. That's our plan. Is he perfect? I don't think so. We don't live in the perfect world, but that's our plan for what it's supposed to be like. It may not be acceptable or unsatisfied, but this is the plan we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U285	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U286	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The draft plan for the dismantling of the pension system has chosen a 2% + 4% exit solution, according to which all funds collected, including 4% paid by the State, can be withdrawn retroactively from the funded pension scheme. Is that unequal treatment? In my opinion, equal treatment requires that this 4% cannot be withdrawn retroactively by anyone, or that money is received by everyone, perhaps by those who have not joined the statutory pension system. I'd like your comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U287	Thank you. I still have to fix that we're not tearing down anything. We just didn't demolish anything, it's like that. And they don't do anything backwards either. Nothing goes backwards! In retrospect, I do not even understand this argument. But 4% of 20% of the social security contribution was removed from the first pillar a long time ago, that was when a person joined the second pillar. Then these people developed different situations, different rights and different obligations. And now we are only extending these rights and obligations. People only get more rights and opportunities, nothing being taken away from anyone. And this 4% is not paid retroactively, it's already taken away from the first pillar and put into the second pillar. What is going on with this is still a forward-looking activity, not a backward one.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U288	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U289	Thank you. It doesn't really reassure my heart that you're not tearing down anything. I'd expect the government to build. The purpose of the Savings Pensions Act is to lay down the conditions and procedures for the payment of the funded pension in order to provide the person with additional income during retirement in addition to the state pension insurance. Now let's look at the purpose of the bill. The one and only clear sentence says that the purpose of the draft is to make compulsory funded pensions optional. This is followed by a number of assessments in the same paragraph, which are not in line with either the impact assessment or the opinions of experts. How is it possible that when considering the specific provisions of such a draft, which is not in line with the objective of the law on misalignment and funded pensions, it is concluded that the breach of the Constitution is proportionate and purposeful?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U290	Thank you. If we now compare these two drafts and this law, which you have just quoted, I will tell you how this is possible. Very simple: the will of the legislator has changed in the meantime. What I want to say is that the will of the legislator has changed in the meantime. That's it, and there's no more reason. We don't have to have any more reason. We told the voters we had a plan like this. The valor said they liked the plan. The government agreed, and that's enough reason. That's all I need. We think it's a good plan, and we can put in all kinds of numbers. You're saying we don't count on analyses and experts. We have a bunch of tests and experts that say it's a good plan. You don't like them, you like other analyses and experts, well, it's just a taste thing. But in the sense that every law can be rewritten, we're trapped now. It's not like someone ever passed a law and can't change it. The other thing is called fine-tuning, that's not what we do. And as for the reconstruction of the state, see, we're building something more: a pension investment account.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U291	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U292	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good minister! You have stressed several times that you have received a huge mandate to implement this law. As far as I know, neither the Fatherland nor the EKRE won the election. But that's it. Here's the question. It seems to me that we are not getting any financial reasons to answer our questions here today anyway. However, it seems to me that you are quite strong in political technology, and so my question comes from this area. You yourself have stated on this platform today, and your coalition partner has claimed that this bill has nothing to do with the approaching local elections, which will take place in October in a year's time. My question is, was it random, or did you use such a highly effective rhetorical technique, which is repeating that you used the word 'September' ten times when you introduced this system. Was it random, or did you get some good advice?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U293	Thank you. There's a compliment, thank you. At least I'm good at political technology. But he wasn't aware of the action. It's just that September is all about different deadlines here, and as I've been saying many times, our original plan wasn't so late to get this thing over with, it was our wish to do it much earlier. I must say, among other things, from my so-called position, that the current reform does not want to tie in with the budgetary strategy of the country or with the process of making a state budget. The impact of the reform is much more difficult to take into account due to this time frame that has now arisen. But it's okay, we'll be fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U294	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U295	Thank you. Good minister! Your bill contains a bank deposit as one of the so-called savings measures. We know that bank deposits have a safety net such as Guarantee Fund deposits are guaranteed. Pension funds do not have such a system. Perhaps not all people will withdraw money immediately, but there will be an economic crisis and people's need for money will increase, financial markets will go down, unemployment will increase, etc. There's a so-called fundraiser run, people panic. If even more than 50% leaves, these funds will collapse and everyone will lose. Have you thought about creating a similar security or safety net so that there will be no major damage?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U296	Thank you. First of all, about this fundraiser, I say that I have been discussing it with the Financial Supervision Authority. We have all the resources in place to temporarily suspend the disbursements of funds when the fund runs, so that the demands can be put in order and the assets can be cashed in peacefully and the damage can be minimised or prevented at all. There's an option. Secondly, the assets of pension funds are covered in a different way than deposits. We know the banks are essentially borrowing this money, but there's some kind of property in exchange for a pension payment. The value of this asset may fluctuate, but it is not of the same nature as the money on the deposit. If you ask me if we've been thinking about making some kind of defense fund, the answer is, no, for the different reasons I just said.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U297	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U298	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, If a number of people decide to withdraw their money from the second pillar, we will have a number of people who have a lot of money in their hands that they really don't know what to do with. Have you also discussed with the Minister of the Interior or in the Government what measures the Government of the Republic will take if, for example, the number of investment frauds is growing exponentially? We know it's such a relatively trendy crime.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U299	Thank you. Well, this depressing vision of the stupidity and dullness and violence of the Estonian people is simply horrifying. I don't share that. It's not like all the fools go and take their money out and then just give it to cheaters or drink it or, as has been said repeatedly, buy themselves a tenth TV. It's not like that! It is a financial asset for people and an absolute majority of Estonian people very long and thoroughly consider what it does with this asset. And we also need to understand when we talk about these stories here, what the structure of the assets in the second pillar of the pension is today. 20% of people own 80% of the assets. Most people have a negligible amount, the median amount is 4,000 euros. And next to that, there's a small part, a few percent that owns over a billion, right? Point one: Do we really think that those people who have a considerable amount of money there, whether they have a high income or whether they have long accumulated middle income, who are therefore retired, rushing their own, I don't know, to break money in the age of 60? Well, no rush, it's just absolutely not a probable scenario. There's no point in freaking out with a scenario. It's so unlikely. Those people who have little money in the second pillar, such as students who have only been working very little time, or people with very low pay or people who have been long unemployed or people who have been abroad for a long time and who do not have any contributions from another fund, I cannot say this number right now, but there is a huge number of them. They have less than 100 euros in the pension pillar and there are, I might be wrong right now, but about a third. So if they buy themselves a new cell phone or a TV with that money? So what? What would they do with the EUR 100 so much? And this is not a huge catch for fraudsters, nor is it enough to upset the Estonian economy. And it's not something that will save our pension system in 40 years' time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U300	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U301	Minister, thank you very much. There are old-age pensioners in our country, along with a group of people who have a lower capacity to work than others in connection with some kind of illness. It may be because of illness that a person wants to withdraw his or her money from another pension pillar, but he or she cannot because the system expects him or her to become an old age pensioner. There are also cases when such people turn to donors to get the money, while they have the money, just locked it. I know that in relation to such cases, the Chancellor of Justice has also been approached, and it has been argued that that is the injustice of the current system. So much has been said here about equal treatment. How do you feel about whether the current system guarantees equality and treats people who have different situations in life in the same way?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U302	Thank you. I have said this several times that the current system does not guarantee equality. In the current system, people have different rights and different obligations. Let me give you an example that is very distinctive, which in principle should stop saying that we have equal assets in the first and second pillars. Second pillar money can be inherited, first pillar money cannot be inherited. When a person dies, his state pension simply stops, that's all. But if he has property in the second pillar and has made a will, he will be able to inherit it. Once today, there was a question of ability to work or, rather, incapacity to work. Realistically, these people probably have quite a few assets in the second pillar, but yes, it may also be that some people who have been on very good incomes get involved, I don't know if they are in a car accident or an accident at work and then have no working capacity. In that case, he can't do anything with the money now, he has to struggle until retirement, and then he's going to get the money, and there's a clear risk that he won't even see his retirement age because of his health, he'll die before he does. No, it is not fair and it is not equal treatment. With this requirement for equal treatment, I do not think it is possible to go anywhere; it is so unsubstantiated. If anyone wants to challenge it in court, fine, but I don't see the risk here that this is the basis for repealing our law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U303	Ivari Padar, second question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U304	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Now, speaking of a possible contradiction with the Constitution, what is preventing the draft from being brought into line with the Constitution in such a way that the 4% share so far accumulated can be channelled to the pension investment account rather than withdrawn? Such a solution could, on the one hand, simply eliminate this contradiction and, on the other hand, implement the objective of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U305	Thank you. Well, what's stopping you? Nothing stands in the way, but the argument that it is against the Constitution cannot be accepted. It's just a statement. I do not agree that this is against the Constitution. On top of that, I will say again that I would rather see a clear risk here that in this case the property that is already yours, although you cannot use it now, because it has restrictions on its use, will be renationalised. In the case of such nationalisation, I think, the clashes of the Constitution are much harder. By going this way, we will go in another place against other sections where it is equally possible to prosecute whether or not it is confirmed that there is some kind of violation of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U306	Kalvi Tough, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U307	Thanks! To begin with, I do not support this bill. But as I've read, the coalition has votes, today you knock it off. Well, life will tell you if it's a law. But let's look to the future. Good Martin! How do you ensure that people are informed and educated on all kinds of investment-related issues, such as how a person opens this investment account and everything else? How do you educate people so that there are as few investment scams as possible? As you may have read on the news, they are not enough now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U308	Thank you. I'm trying to read the news less, it's just depressing. But there was a story that a person was at home, I don't know, 150,000 euros of cash, and they managed to squeeze it out of him. I'm surprised someone has so much cash at home. But it does, Kalvi, it will, it will, the law. It's still on! On the subject of learning, I say this once already came up with the question that, firstly, people, of course, who are going to make some kind of decision, are probably trying to get themselves up to speed, what their choices are and what the possible consequences of these choices are. It is already clear today that both the Pension Centre and the Tax Administration and the Social Insurance Board will create separate websites for where the frequently asked questions heading comes. A hot phone line will be opened where people can call. Separately, of course, education, if you could say so, is carried out by all kinds of financial market product providers. They must not be confused with cheaters. But I guess no one has any doubt that if a person goes into a bank and says that I would like to finish my second pillar now, the bank will put at least three beautiful brochures on his desk, which says how many great opportunities he has besides leaving with his money. This, too, can be called educating, i.e. offering people choices. Advertising itself is an educational thing. And, of course, I think that the public is also educating what we are doing here, or political debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U309	Thank you. Let's take a break, give the performer a chance to catch his breath for a second. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U310	Ladies and gentlemen, Let's get back to the hearing. I'm gonna ask Minister Helme to return to this remote control!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U311	Thank you. Thank you very much to the manager for a moment of rest.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U312	The next questioner is Signe Stone. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U313	Thank you, Vice President of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you very much. Today, you have also confirmed this in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, what the final conditions for the reform of the second pillar offered by the government will be and how many people will withdraw the money collected there. However, it is certain that the abolition of compulsory funded pension and the reduction in the share of the second pillar in the pension system will lead to the need for the state to increase its income, i.e. taxes. Question: What specific taxes do you intend to use as Minister of Finance to cover future additional expenditure in the state budget as a result of the reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U314	Thank you. I still disagree. This draft will put these conditions in place once and for all, and next year the entire regulation of voluntary departure from the second pillar will be operational. If, in later years, there is a need or a desire to change something, then a separate draft must already come up. It is difficult to make a specific point at the moment and to say when or what we would like to change. I also argue that we need to increase taxes. It's the exact opposite. If the pension reform, the reform of the second pillar, starts in the way we see it, then the sums received in the state budget will increase, which means, on the contrary, that the state budget will create more fiscal space. The claim that we will have to raise taxes in the future speaks of some very distant future, some very hypothetical situations. It can be said calmly that we will actually have a green turn and a digital turn in the future and that there will be an exponential increase in quality of life, which is why we can actually lower taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U315	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U316	Thank you. I am also asking about these violations of the Constitution or of fundamental rights. One barricade is definitely an obstacle to legitimate expectations. People have the expectation that the rules adopted will remain in force and will not be changed retroactively. Yes, the Supreme Court has taken the view that if the expected effect outweighs or is not too great, certain rules may be changed retroactively. The impact will certainly be significant if it is expected to affect 747000 people and EUR 5 billion. You have looked past what the Chancellor of Justice has referred to. The Chancellor of Justice actually made a couple of proposals on how to get out of this situation and not to violate fundamental rights. This has already been asked in various forms, but I also ask: why do you ignore it? Why don't you respect people's legitimate expectations?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U317	Thank you. I understand that lawyers like to talk about the Constitution, but I would point out that the Supreme Court itself has given us a clear guideline by setting a precedent. When we were changed to special pensions for military personnel and policemen, or other special pensions, it was precisely in the case of these changes that we went to court with a reference to legitimate expectations. And the Supreme Court said that such a legitimate expectation is an obstacle, yes, but such a legitimate expectation does not prevent the modification of the pension system and, in essence, a reduction in the future pension of people. Well, I'm not going to the details here, it's certainly more complicated and multifaceted, but it's basically a fairly similar case: changing people's pension schemes, in this case specifically to the detriment of these people. And the Supreme Court has said it is constitutional. In fact, the Supreme Court said that the amendment is justified by the fact that it is an administratively justified argument for administrative simplification was also an argument for them: that if we do a very complex system, the amendment of this complex system may also be one of the reasons for allowing this barrage. So when we are talking about constitutional barriers, neither the study commissioned by the Ministry of Finance nor the study commissioned by the Ministry of Justice deny that there are a number of points where there is a constitutional barrier. We argue that these bars are either justified or proportionate and so there is no inherent contradiction with the Constitution. Yeah, that's it. And what else I wanted to answer is why we do not follow these guidelines or those proposals that the Chancellor of Justice has proposed: the reason is very simple. To be honest, we find it a little inappropriate that the Chancellor of Justice is offering some sort of political solution to the bill that he likes more than what the government has done. It's not his job.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U318	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U319	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! As you yourself have admitted, with this change you will be rolling a fine mine for the next few decades for the next governments. As all forecasts and analyses show, it is particularly the poorest people with financial literacy and the poorest financial literacy that are taking out the money that has been collected and spent on pensions. Even if there are 20% of them, as the latest analyses and forecasts indicate, in a few decades' time, we will have over 100,000 people, whose pension is about a third less than it would have been if the current rules were maintained. Over 100,000 people are in a really difficult economic situation and, of course, it is not conceivable that you can just watch it. As Signe Kivi pointed out in his question, this is likely to mean a surge in tax increases for the future government. Of course, I understand you're trying to bypass this response, but what kind of tax increases do you see ahead of you to fill the hole you're creating?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U320	Thank you. First of all, I thought very carefully when I myself admitted that it would get worse in the future. I really don't remember admitting that right now. On the contrary, all the time I try to explain that in our view, it actually makes things better and does not reduce people's future incomes. I haven't admitted it. I also disagree with the claim that in the future, people's pensions will be 1/3 lower. This is the position resulting from a very strange calculation and speculation, which can be substantially changed by changing some simple inputs or assumptions so that this result disappears completely. What I can say is this, and that is what I have repeatedly said, and it has also been repeatedly discussed and tried to disprove, that, because of the second pillar, pensions paid out of the first pillar have been about 10% smaller for the last 15 years. You can figure out why that is, but that's a fact. It's been that way so far. If someone says that in 30 years, it's exactly the opposite, then we can assume that, and we can argue. But what I'd like to say is, if here you're trying to get yourself into a situation where, I don't know, in 2045 for example, there's some unexpected huge hole that the government has to deal with some sort of drastic military communism tax rises, it's not really serious. We are currently looking at our pension system and all social systems, however, in some kind of long trend or some sort of continuous process. If there is no war now or, I don't know, some kind of disease doesn't wipe out half of Estonia or some UFO invasion doesn't come, then we're not going to get it unexpectedly. Just as Estonia has not unexpectedly reached a situation where we have too little pension, which does not satisfy pension beneficiaries or any politicians. But we haven't had that situation, I don't know, the day before yesterday. It's a long process. This has been the case for a long time and different governments have tried to alleviate this problem in different ways. The current government has made one extraordinary pension increase and is doing more.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U321	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U322	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, The right evil and complicated words, even military terminology, have been used here during this debate. I have some simple questions about that 4%. There has been talk of educating and helping and informing people. I have a question: do we have statistics, how many people who knew, understood or are now aware that the first pillar of pension will be reduced by 4%, which will be staffed from social tax and raised to the second pillar? What do the statistics tell us when the informed people are on today's system? And the second question. In some ways, I can understand from the Social Democrats that, for them, perhaps this problem is not the renationalisation of 4% of the second pillar money, but do you understand and can you tell me how reform parties can make sense of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U323	Thank you. The Institute of Social Studies commissioned a survey where a number of questions were asked about the current pension system and pension reform. And indeed, one question that was asked was whether people knew that, at the expense of their basic pension, this was to make contributions to the second pension pillar. If I remember correctly, 86% of the people said they didn't know it. Perhaps people's awareness of how the current pension system works is very, very low. I guess, or what I think, I'm absolutely sure that today, people's understanding of the pension system and knowing how it works are much better than a year ago. This public debate, which we have held here in this Chamber and through the media, and I assume that people have also discussed it at the spit table, has certainly increased people's understanding and knowledge, and this will certainly ease their future choices as well. Now, yes, the question of how it is possible that a party that considers itself liberal and in some way self-righteous also fights with nails and teeth against freedom of choice, competition, the opportunity for people to go around with their own money, and does so by saying that they worry about the social benefits they pay in 40 years' time. It doesn't make any sense. The reasoning I can give, what I see, is clear, how can I now say it? just disproportionate care for the well-being of financial institutions compared to the well-being of all others.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U324	Jevgeni Ossinovski, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U325	Thank you. Dear Minister, I would suggest a bolder answer, then people shouldn't ask the same question twice or more. Mr Sikkut asked where the government considered this reform to be a success and in which case it was a failure. You've answered that this is a very good plan. I'm glad you're convinced that the plan is correct, but what are the measures for success or failure? I read the bill's explanatory statement, which says the goal is that people get the money. It is also said here that competition will increase as there will be more investment services, and then there could also be an increase in the yield of pension funds. So what's your internal meter? Is the level of productivity increasing and the way in which competition is revived? Or is the real measure of success or failure simply whether or not money will be received in 2021? Do you have any broader metrics at least inside?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U326	Thank you. I don't have any broader metrics inside me. I would say that competition and productivity are clearly linked. Production will improve thanks to competition. This ABC as it should be, well, some ambassadors have seen me as a complete neanderthal in economic terms. But people get money... I would say that perhaps different people have also had certain emphasis within the coalition on making this whole bill, which is more important to them. For some, perhaps money is a more important goal; for others, productivity is a more important goal. Well, you can find different reasons. But if someone blames us for our goal of dismantling or breaking the second pillar, it is certainly not true. Our aim is not to dismantle the second pillar. If we wanted to do this, we'd be here today with a different bill. This different bill would be such that, since, I don't know, the second pillar of January 1st, 2022, there will be no more contributions, and we will somehow start scraping out the money. Then we'd be here with such a bill. We wouldn't be ashamed if we wanted to. But that's not what we want to do. We want to offer people options, investment opportunities, so that the current system, which is poor and, as we can see, will not be much better in the future. That is the real goal, and we think that the moves or changes we make will lead us to it. But if you ask what this meter is, let's not take one year to compare, let's take a five-year period. Production improves, the number of products offered is higher and these products are more flexible and attract or say, find the market. If that happens, we think that the reform has succeeded.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U327	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U328	Thank you for the floor. Minister of Finance! Listening to your answers, I would like to clarify something. Some of your answers turned out that you consider the second pension pillar system created 17 years ago to be unfair. It is as if it has created unequal treatment and you are now going to reverse this historic injustice. In the case of some of the answers, I had the impression that you were saying that this is unequal because those who remained only in the first pillar, as if they did not get an additional 4%, but that is the 4% that will still be there. And at the same time, you are now giving those who went to the second pillar and who have been treated as if they were privileged, the opportunity to take out 4% of that second pillar, in contrast to those who are in the first pillar and who are unable to take anything out. Please explain to me what your logic is with this inequality. And how are you going to remedy this historic inequality now with this reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U329	Maybe we should start by having a slightly different understanding of the word 'inequality' or, let's say, a different attitude to it. When I talk about inequality, I don't necessarily consider it something that is somehow, well, socially unjust. We are talking about people having different conditions, different rights and obligations, and we cannot regard them as equal. Well, the same example I gave you earlier: you can't bequeath the first pillar, but you can bequeath the second pillar. These are unequal conditions; they are not equally treated. We can certainly add here estimates that are either objective or subjective, for example, whether one of the unequal elements is better or worse or more unfair or fairer. But when I talk about inequality in the key to the Constitution, I am still talking about it first and foremost, that there are different conditions for people who are in the first pillar only or in the first and second pillars both. That's what we're talking about. And then there's the next step. If, for example, the Chancellor of Justice insists that these people should be treated equally, that is, in fact, an unjustified demand. They are not already in an equal position and therefore do not need to be treated equally. Now the 4% question. Let me give you a very simple example. If a person has been in both pillars, the first and the second, paid a fifth, or 20% of his first pillar's share, then he would have to have a theoretical or, logically, if we say that everything has been treated equally by a fifth less by the first pillar. But he doesn't. He actually has less than a tenth smaller first pillar. Its first pillar will be compensated for by the rest of the taxpayers by the rest of the budget, which it itself and the people who joined the second pillar will pay off. Why is that done? This is clearly the result of a political choice in order to make people's being in the second pillar more favourable or attractive and to somehow amplify this second pillar. There is no equality now and it has not existed in this system since the beginning. Maybe the wrong impression has been made, but my message has always been that we don't press any equality here, we don't even those people back. That's not possible. We create more opportunities and more freedom for people so that they can move their choices forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U330	Kalvi Tough, second question, procedural doesn't count.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U331	Thanks! Here's the question. I call it breaking the second pillar, you call it reforming the pension system. And here's my question: if this is a reform, why is there no possibility of bringing more extra money into the pension system?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U332	Thank you. Let's say I don't think the introduction and the question are connected, but all right. Extra money... Yes, broadly speaking, I can answer, although this does not really concern the bill. But when asked how to bring extra money, these options vary widely. The debate has once been through the possibility that, as a result of the current reform, the second and third pillars in the future will become more similar than they have been so far. This is because they are voluntary, but also in terms of tax behaviour, they become more similar. In this case, the third pillar still becomes, in a sense, a slippery worm. We should consider whether we can reshape the third pillar: incorporate it into the second pillar or make it different in all its content, and what are all these options that have gone through the discussions in the working group that prepared this reform. The idea of occupational pension has been discussed the most. The second option that was discussed is to give an even greater opportunity to collect a personal pension, so you can put a lot more in it than you do now, to increase your wage contributions. These are the options, and these are the issues of political choices that we can reach in the near future if anyone can think or fear. But the decision that we took in this reform was that we first did the second pillar reform. It's a big change. This major change has a number of consequences that must be true, to find some sort of new balance. And then we can make the following changes to the third pillar and also address the need for more money. I understand that, for the social democrats, the possibility of raising money in the first place is always to raise a few taxes, and it turns out that also for the reformists, but this may not be the case at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U333	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U334	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! The government has linked its retention to the outcome of the debate on this draft. You have linked your government to whether you will be able to pass a bill that has been found by a number of experts to be an amendment contrary to the Constitution. It is likely that there will be a dispute ahead of us, and if the outcome of this dispute should be the conclusion that this is a change that is not in line with our constitution, what does it say about the government's survival if the government's survival is made dependent on it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U335	Thank you. First of all, I would say that the government committed this trust, of course, primarily because the opposition introduced obstruction tactics. I do not regard this as reprehensible, or, I do not know, vile, that the opposition is using the means at its disposal to defend its political positions or to defend the interests of its constituents, or, let us say, to fight politically. It's just that the government has its own ways. One of them is linking the adoption of the bill to trust. And the fact that the government was committed to this trust clearly shows, in my opinion, that the government is very self-confident. We believe in this bill, we believe in the firm support of this bill in this Chamber, at least by the coalition ambassadors. Now for constitutionality. A number of experts, well, whether they have now been a lot, but one of these experts was hired by financial institutions and one of the people criticising the constitutionality of the constitutional institution basically re-used them for the same points of discussion. I have a number of other experts to resist who say that the draft Constitution has no problem. Most likely, I think it's likely that it's going to be in court at some point, some disputes are coming up. In my opinion, it would be much fairer, more polite and cleaner from the point of view of the political process if the law were first declared and then, if anyone really has a complaint, he turns to the court. I don't think it's right for the president to try to stop the law from coming into force. But the President is free, as we know. I do not look to the Supreme Court with concern or fear. I think if this dispute reaches the Supreme Court, we'll come out as a winner. We have considered the arguments, we have also taken the criticism into account in the drafting, we have all worked through the concerns that have been criticised from the point of view of the Constitution. Where we've seen the risk, that's where we've mitigated the risk. We've also reduced the risk. I'll give you a little bit of a payout. It was said that it was arbiter to lay down that paying up EUR 10000 is the same and paying up EUR 10000 is the same. That's what we solved. We've solved the exits. The places where we have assessed that criticism has been justified, justified or that risks exist, we have improved and the draft has changed. But once we have seen that it is political rhetoric, so-called value choices, we are very willing to defend ourselves in court and come out as a winner. If, indeed, the Court considers that, at some point, it is absolutely clear that the whole law certainly does not call into question the need to change something, then something must be changed. But it doesn't have any implications for the government's survival.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U336	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U337	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, I never thought the current system would be of no use to anyone. Of course: funds, fund managers, people with higher pay. And nothing will change for the latter, but the first will have to do more in competition, and they will also be able to maintain their results. Much has been said here today about the poverty of the future and that this bill will push a person into a difficult situation in the future. I asked the Ministry of Finance for a table that clearly shows what has happened today. People earning a low wage who pay 2% will receive 2.4% at first, 1.1% higher pensions after 10 years than others. And the Chancellor of Justice has been approached by a person who proves that his pension is less due to joining the second pillar than it would have been if he had not joined. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U338	Well, this point of appeal to the Chancellor of Justice is actually the same subject that I have once touched upon here. People ask, but who guarantees that there will be either one way or another in the future, or who guarantees that people's pensions are better. But no one guarantees anything right now. If you're in the second pillar, no one will guarantee you anything. They're gonna take your money for 20 years or 40 years, and then they're gonna say, oops, didn't come out, was the wrong investment strategy, and that's it. Nobody guarantees anything. So this guarantee is only required in one direction. I do not agree that this is a one-way street, it should be a two-way road. Now, as far as these calculations are concerned, the calculations are made with very different assumptions. You change the assumptions, and you get a different calculation. That's the so-called number magic. But I would like to bring in a fundamental question of the trend. The first pillar will be indexed by law. The first pillar, which has been drawn to attention by a large number of ambassadors, is not directly dependent on the amount of social tax receipts. We have the first pillar indexed and this sum will in any case increase according to this index. The first pillar is financed by current labour taxes, right, social taxes. The second pillar we collect from the fund and while the money is in the fund, the amount will increase if you have a well-rewarded investment portfolio, if you don't, it won't. Whether it grows in the same pace as inflation, or no one can guarantee it with the same step. But the thing is, if you retire and you pay off, that's not gonna grow anymore. However, taxes from the first pillar are constantly increasing, and each year they are indexed again. But the second pillar just pays you a tick-tick-tick-tick and that amount actually decreases every year. So the numbers that we are told here are that how much is the pension larger or less for the first and second pillars, only talk about the first years or the first year when you retire and you start getting money from the second pillar. Once you've had five years, these numbers have changed, and changed to the detriment of the recipient of the second pillar. Ten more years. So in this sense, there's a lot of bluff in these numbers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U339	Heljo Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U340	Thank you. Dear Minister, You were talking about how the money would be transferred to the state budget. Right now, it turns out that as an ardent fighter and as an ardent fighter, the entire government, including the EKRE, is bringing money to the state budget at the expense of today's young, future pensioners. But my question is: what is justified by the violation of the principles of the Social Tax Act and the distribution of money collected as social tax to the part of the population for purposes which are incompatible with the objective of tax collection? We know that a social tax of 20%, whether in the first pillar or in the second pillar, is still meant to be used at retirement age, but not to take out when you are young.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U341	Thank you. This is the other side I've actually answered several times. In my opinion, the separation of the pension part of the social tax and making it an investment instrument have already changed the meaning of this section of the law. In addition, it can be said that if we have one law that says the same, and another law that says otherwise, these laws may be in conflict with each other, but there is no reason to say that one law is superior to another, unless it is a constitution. Thirdly, I would say that I do not understand the argument that we are changing the pension system at the expense of today's young, future pensioners. I know that the current system exists at the expense of today's young people, today's pensioners and future pensioners. If we didn't have second-pillar payouts, the pension could be about 10% higher, it's mathematically very easy to calculate. If we hadn't always raised this 4% to the second pillar, we'd have so much more money that we could pay a 10% pension over the first pillar. However, the second pillar's disbursements are not the same. They're not the same size, they're smaller than 10%. For the last 15 years, pensions are smaller both in the first pillar and in the first and second pillars due to this second pillar. It is a fact that no one has been able to disprove it. And today's young people are financing today's pensioners and will also have to fund themselves and other pensioners in the future. Well, it's kind of a big deal. But if we tell them to finance yourself today, yourself in the future and pensioners now, I do not see how the current system treats them better than it does when we say that you have a wider choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U342	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U343	Indrek Saar is first.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U344	Sorry, yes, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U345	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Could you recommend to your coalition partner, Priit Sibula, who is very familiar with the fact that one person wrote to the Chancellor of Justice to read the answer sent by the Chancellor of Justice? It's been public for a few days. He could read it and then come back to the subject. It's just such a little request, if you two should come up with anything. But I come back to a question that has already been asked a few times here today. One of the last ones to address this issue was Madis Milling, who asked you how it is ensured that those people who continue in the second pillar do not lose their assets or at least have the return that their chosen fund has. Because in a situation where, for example, half of the people leave the fund and withdraw money, there is, after all, a completely obvious economic pattern that productivity is likely to decrease. What exactly can you do to make sure that doesn't happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U346	Thank you. First of all, the Chancellor of Justice's answer is very interesting. The Chancellor of Justice tells people it was your choice. If you have too little money out of that pillar, you chose this option. It is very interesting that the Chancellor of Justice tells this person that you have chosen and that you are now complaining. But at the same time, he sends a letter to the government, or rather to the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu, where he says that such choices should not be allowed to be made by people, and if these choices are made, we will have a breach of the Constitution. I would say that there is a certain, quite clear inconsistency here. But now for productivity. The structure of pension fund assets is quite liquid either way, and if we have distributed pension fund payments for quite a long time and created a number of other instruments that make it easier and cheaper to cash this asset, then we have mitigated the risks that the remaining assets will be cheapened. As much as I've had contact with fund managers or bankers or whatever we call them, they're already in the process of reform. They are already changing the structure of their assets and their investment policy and ensuring that investors continue to find themselves attractive or apt in the future. They want to get more retirement workers, and this is the biggest guarantee that negative scenarios will not be triggered. The higher risk is not due to the fact that we make the pension system voluntary. A much higher risk and it does not depend on whether we have the second pillar on a voluntary or forced basis, it is still due to some risks in the external environment that are absolutely not under our control. But still, I'm coming back to what was in here earlier on the Priit Onion. You want me to somehow guarantee that the risks are grounded. But even in the current system, the risks have not been grounded in any way. Why do you want it to be in the future, but right now you're living in peace with the fact that there's no risk grounded? It doesn't make any sense!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U347	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U348	Thank you. When it comes to the constitutionality of your draft, what prevented the draft from being brought into line with the Constitution in such a way that the 4% share so far accumulated in the second pillar would be directed towards the pension investment account rather than actually allowed to be withdrawn? Such a solution could, on the one hand, simply eliminate the contradiction and, on the other hand, achieve the objectives of the draft. What prevented you from acting constitutionally?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U349	Thank you. Very pretentious or arrogant claim that the draft is against the Constitution. No one's been able to prove it anywhere. There are statements in and out that shouldn't be, that shouldn't be. But I do not agree that this is contrary to the Constitution. Several lawyers, several experts and legal analysts have said that this is not against the Constitution. Now, why didn't we? I explained once before that, too, that if we had done so, we would have opened the door to a completely different legal dispute, either on the subject of constitutional clashes or on some other legal disputes that would certainly not have been less weighty or not less argumentable, immediately. We're getting back to the fact that it went off when the current system was made. Then changes were made that changed people's opportunities, rights, financial obligations, how their money was invested or handled with their tax money. Then people came up with different rights-responsibilities and started treating people differently. And today, it's just not possible to reverse it, it's not possible in practice. However, in practice it is possible to give people the opportunity to better dispose of their assets by making this system more flexible. This certainly is not in any way contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U350	Mr Ossinovski had one procedural question, so the current one is the second one. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U351	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Finance! Here's the question. I have not finished reading this bill, but I have a question about the pension investment account. In general, the use of pension money by the state has a certain regulatory power in terms of rates and other matters. You yourself also indicated that it is very important that the rate of return is better and that, in fact, these fees could be lower, that they have fallen and that they could go further in this way. My question specifically concerns the pension investment account, where it will be possible to invest both tax money and human wage money in a targeted way in the future. Does this draft prescribe the rates of fees and other conditions that may be imposed by the financial institutions depositing and mediated funds for these specific services?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U352	Thank you. The pension investment account itself has a number of limitations: you can invest in it, how you can withdraw it, tax regulations, etc. Since it is essentially a certain type of bank account, the fund manager's remuneration does not exist there, right? The person himself is the fund manager. But just as banks have different price lists for transfers, bank cards, special accounts, so it will be. This is the result of the banks' price list, and there is no regulation on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U353	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Let's go to the negotiations. As a rule, the OTRK debate has been the first to have heard from the political groups, and everyone can take the floor in the debate on this issue. Do the members of the Riigikogu want the representatives of the political groups to be first? Yes, it is. Looks like there's a bunch of nodding heads out there. Let's start with the Reform Party. Please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U354	Ladies and gentlemen, Today, the worst law of the laws adopted during the Riigikogu will probably go to the vote. Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, this date will go down in history, and in the future those who are behind this decision will be hunted down, each of you who will vote for it. The Commission played an involvement in the procedure for this draft. A meeting of the Commission was held, which invited 18 organisations to speak for three minutes. Then the members of the Riigikogu did not have much say or space for questions or discussion. This bill breaks down our pension system. Never before have all experts been so unambiguously in agreement that this is a law that is detrimental to Estonia, to the Estonian people, to the future of Estonia, to the pension system. The experts agree that the enforcement of this draft will lead, first, to pension poverty, second, to a large tax increase, possibly in the future, to an increase in social tax from 20% to 28%, to an increase in immigration by hundreds of thousands of migrant workers, to a negative impact on the economy due to declining investments in pension funds. Today's decision will be paid for by our children and next generations. With today's decision, Estonia is moving back to a time when everyone wanted to make it evenly poorer. Breaking the second pillar ignores our demographic situation, the experience of the rest of the world in saving for retirement and the simple logic that long-term savings should be supported. The government and those who vote in favour of this bill today are not interested in the future and the welfare of the Estonian people. The government's only interested in self-interest. Why else will the entry into force of this bill be timed so that people receive their savings immediately before the local elections and the tax money they receive can be used immediately before the elections of the Riigikogu. This way you can play good uncle and people with their own savings go to the match. It's just so cynical and selfish that words aren't enough. For a moment, you don't think about what's going to happen to our pension system in the long run. It is easy to move several billion out of the Estonian pension system, but the government has no idea how to increase our pension assets and people's savings. Maybe not all people are leaving there right now, but the billions that have left this system are gone for retirement property. The government has not thought about what happens when the economic crisis comes, and we know that the economic crisis is definitely coming because of the cyclical nature of the economy, people's need for money is growing, unemployment is rising, financial markets are falling, people are panicking, there may be a fund run. If this happens, the politicians of today's government and coalition will have to take responsibility for it. Unfortunately, the bill for this political step will later be paid by a simple voter in the form of new taxes, lost savings, poorer social services and even bigger deficits in the pension fund. A study was published a few weeks ago, according to which 38% of the Estonian population consider this government to be a threat to the constitutional order of Estonia. The draft relating to trust in this government infringes the fundamental social right enshrined in the Constitution, the fundamental right to equality, the principle of legitimate expectations, the principle of property rights and the principle of freedom to conduct a business. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U355	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U356	Thank you. Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, this date will go down in history and those who were behind this decision will be hunted down in the future. Each of you who vote in favour of this is responsible. Since only involvement and listening to experts were played in the Commission, we had no choice but to propose so many amendments to this draft that the government would commit itself to it. It is important for history to know that this is not some impersonal group of members of the Riigikogu who are responsible for this, but the government of Jüri Ratas, who considers this to be the most important draft of his government, with which he is committed to trusting himself. This is the government of the Centre Party, the Fatherland and the EKRE, who will go down in history by breaking down the pension system. You, the good members of the coalition, are the ones who are responsible and whom we must look to in years' time when the consequences for which experts have warned come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U357	Thank you. Like the first speaker, I will take the representatives of the rest of the political groups according to which group's fingers have been quicker. Next, Mr Pohlak, on behalf of the EKRE Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U358	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The faction of the Estonian Conservative People's Party considers that pension reform is necessary. We trust the people of Estonia; people must have the opportunity to decide their own money (I stress: their own money) and their own savings. Sadly, the opposition of the Riigikogu has placed greater emphasis on this subject on the show and the obstruction of parliamentary work. We are talking about those amendments that were not really content. At the same time, the opposition ignores the popular support for this reform. There was a big demonstration in front of this house today, where people were invited. This demonstration failed, the crowd didn't come. This merely confirmed studies which say that the majority of the Estonian people have clear support for pension reform. These same studies say that there is, in fact, strong support for this reform among the supporters of opposition parties. That throws up the question: if you do not represent the interests of your constituents or your supporters, whose interests in this Chamber are actually represented by the torpedoes of this reform? Finally, I repeat: the Estonian Conservative People's Party stands firm for the right of the Estonian people to decide their own money and savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U359	Thank you! On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland of Aivar Kokk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U360	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with what is the main objective of this pension reform. It is to give people the right to independently invest in assets that today are compulsory for the pension fund. At the same time, it is important that pension funds in the future invest in the Estonian economy and earn annual income for pension fund entrants through these investments. I was listening to a previous speaker. He started with experts saying one, two or three. Most of the opinions of the experts had been published before the Committee on Monetary Affairs introduced a significant correction. The letter from the Chancellor of Justice also came on Wednesday morning, regardless of what was decided on Tuesday. Let's start with dates. When we get to the dates and someone here criticizes that the payout is on 1 September 2021, then, friends, everyone said that it was necessary to postpone at least a year and a half so that all IT solutions could be done. That's why the date came. If anyone asks in this Chamber whether an investment fund can be put at the same time, yes, applications can be made on 1 January 2021, on 1 April it will be possible to submit applications to transfer its money to the investment fund or account. And all these opportunities will arise on 1 September 2021. These were the wishes that the various parties wanted. We are constantly talking about the fact that unequal treatment is. When I entered the second pension pillar, I was told that the state would put more money in it. Today we also argued here in the Chamber whether the state would put more money in it or not. The result of the survey was that most people have not realised that 4% of the social tax, 20% of it, will be taken from our first pillar and by that we will have a lower pension for the first pillar, or that this 2% will be taken from our salary (the company will be able to recalculate income tax). When we are talking about pensions, I recommend that everyone take out pensions, for example, in 2003. At that point, the amount of pension was 126 euros in today's money, and today the pension is nearly four times higher. Let's think about it now that we're retiring. In the next 15 years, the first pension pillar is likely to grow three to four times, but the second pension pillar will not grow a single percentage because it is not indexed. And now we're talking about equal treatment! What we're talking about here is that a person gets poorer, that if he takes money out of another pension and retires, he only has the money from the first pension pillar. 50% of people investing in the second pension pillar have raised 4 000 euros or less, 50%, or almost 40 000 people. They will receive a maximum of EUR 22 each month. Most people have much less. Think: 22 euros today and 22 euros in 15 years' time. It's not being indexed, it's going to stay in the exact same place. The Governor of Eesti Pank announces on Twitter: complete nonsense, five months must be announced in advance, and then it happens that the economy may fall. But he doesn't read the law. Also in this Chamber, I want to see how many people have actually read this law from the beginning to the end. One month before the decision to be realized, it is possible for a person to... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U361	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U362	... to reconsider and not to withdraw the money. It was said here in the meantime that three times it would be better to take it out, then a person can make a decision nine months before they can change their mind. These decisions were taken in the Committee on Monetary Affairs after hearing the various parties. When it is said that this debate was too pointless, ask the banks and investment funds or the people of the Pension Centre whether the improvements that were requested have been introduced. Yes, these improvements have been incorporated into this bill. We are protecting low-paid people so that if they want to withdraw their EUR 700 to 800 or 1000 from the pension fund, it does not go into personal income tax [accounting] because today they have EUR 500 free of income tax. We guarantee these companies or funds that if 15% or 20% of people decide to leave, they will be able to increase the loan burden from 10% to 25%. If someone asks what happens then, after all, that funds liquidate those shares that are not productive and keep those that are productive, then at the same time we also give these funds the opportunity to invest in the Estonian economy and, through it, those who remain in the funds with their own money, to get a better return. I dare say here that I have joined the second pillar fund and I intend to remain there after this reform. The reason is simply that if today's pensioners somehow wanted to withdraw money, which was a small chance, if there was a very small amount, or EUR 2 000, they paid 20%. We've eliminated it and left it at 10%. It is easy to do criticism, but in fact this bill should be read along with the improvements that have been introduced, then it would only be fair and fair to make criticism. But if this bill has not been read and, in fact, does not know what is in it, then criticism is relatively trivial. Let me give you an example. There are so many children born in this hall during the Soviet era. You remember, there was child insurance, we all insured our children, we paid insurance every month. And when it came to 1990, these things were eliminated and the crown came, it turned out that there was nothing on the bill. You couldn't have a birthday for that. But we spent dozens of years collecting money there. It is exactly the same with the second pension pillar today, with 22 euros or less being fought for. I think the Social Democrats could talk about how, fortunately, in the pension law that came into force in 1999, we were able to correct this mistake last year. When I saw this speaker today with a slogan in front of the Riigikogu, I had a question. This guy told me four years ago that you don't know anything about retirement, so it's supposed to be that the poor live poor and the rich live rich. I guess that wasn't quite right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U363	Thank you! Next, Indrek Saar on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U364	Ladies and gentlemen, As the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Mr Kokk, concluded some totally incomprehensible and absurd accusation by commenting on his personal conversations, I cannot but quote the person who, I think, was really in front of the house today and worried with many active citizens about the consequences of what you did today. He said spontaneously, I think, very nice words that deserve to be quoted: 'But otherwise, for a long time there is such a feeling that you have put a white sheet on the table. This sheet isn't the newest, she has to be repaired, dressed, wrinkled, ironed, but she exists. He's clean, doing his job. Then someone just comes along and walks on top with dirty cassants. ' And this is what you friends are doing today with this pension reform. The consolation that we have been actively discussing this subject for over six months (the discussion started a little earlier) and that people's financial awareness has increased so much that we can all take excellent investment decisions, better than top professionals have done so far, is short-sighted to me. I quote to you the publication of our own expensive Monitoring Centre for Development this year, Longeye, where the article 'We need a better microscope on money' is such a beautiful introduction to the point: 'The discussions on voluntary retirement have brought our own financial well-being to the agenda. So much has not been said about money wisdom since the last financial crisis. Time will show what happens to the pension system and whether people will make more informed choices for their financial well-being. However, there is no reason for over-optimism, as in no country has all the inhabitants been able to invest enough money for their old age or create a perfect pension system. People will remain human regardless of how much they have knowledge of financial matters or how much revenue they earn. It is easier to live for short-term goals without financial security for the distant future. ' Another expert assessment. But we've been talking to you about expertise for months. Despite the fact that all experts have warned against breaking the second pillar of the pension, you are still heading that way and doing something that really is... Ironically, this could be called very innovative, because Estonia is known to be the first country to give people pension money simply in cash, their pension deposits, which are designed to cope with retirement age. This has not even been done by Poland and Hungary, which screwed up their pension systems. Poland has understood this and is now trying to improve a little bit, to some extent to reverse this system. But I'm going to put it on your mind that you still think of at least three cases that you or all of you will inevitably face after you make that decision today. First of all, think about the people who take that money out. They do so in good faith that the investment product they are offered or the investment opportunity (we can already see that they are taking a slow turn) will indeed not yield them a few percent a year, but maybe 15%, maybe 18%. And then, some time later, there's not much left of that money. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U365	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U366	We have to answer these people why we made it possible, that the money they had collected for 17 to 18 years at the kroon and the euro by euro went to the water, why we did not keep them from taking the wrong step. We have to answer that. And these could be your neighbors, your future colleagues, your old friends who fall into this trap. We take that responsibility. Consider, too, the people who, in a couple of decades' time, have taken out their second pillar money and this investment has gone down, will receive a third less pension than the 40% that we consider elementary in order for a person to cope. So what are you gonna tell them? Are you gonna tell them it was their own decision, it was their own fault that you made that decision? Or do we have mechanisms to actually help these people cope? And what's that gonna cost? And finally. Please think about the children, the grandchildren, the future generation, who now, yes, may not yet be too active in this discussion, because a young person will not necessarily think about how he will cope in 40, 50, or even 30 years' time when he is retired. It's not ours. We're all human, and usually we don't think deeply in such a long time. Think of them when they get close to this moment and we have taken away their future opportunities by dismantling the long-term pension system. We have assigned them, at the expense of the future, the choices we have made, significantly narrowed their options, and placed on them the burden we have said so far with this system, that we should partly take on ourselves, by saving ourselves by the time the people who are working are much less than today, compared to those who are receiving pensions. Please think about these people before you make that decision today! This is a very long-term decision, and it is a very responsible decision. On behalf of the Socialists, I call on you not to support this draft. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U367	Thank you. On behalf of the Centre Party Group Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U368	Ladies and gentlemen, The position of the central group was already published today at 12 noon on the Estonian Päevaleht portal. But since I looked at the fact that two thirds of the questions of the Reform Party and of the issues of the Social Democrats repeated themselves, it makes sense that the middle group also repeats itself and reminds us what our real political position is. Of course, the Reform Party has tried to incriminate us with different views and attitudes, but you will not succeed again. Just as you couldn't bring those slogans here, you had to hide them. The Centre Party appreciates the incorporation of today's draft into the government's vote on the matter of trust for the following reasons. First of all, we recall and stress the analysis of the investor rights association, which was surprisingly also made public on the Estonian portals. The review shows that inflation and post-inflation rates have been at a deep disadvantage for many years. For example, Estonia's second pillar funds had a real return of 5.8% in 2018. The tables show pension funds operating in Estonia among the Member States of the European Union in the role of a red lamp and so through a decade. The legal framework set by the Riigikogu itself today forces people to accept it. Go on. To begin with, I am setting out a false claim as if our party had unexpectedly turned its back on the system that gives the banks gold eggs today. Let us remind the hot agitators of the past. The Centre Party has been acutely critical of the funded pension system that exists today from the outset. In September 2001, when the Riigikogu Hall voted on the Pensions Act, a member of the Riigikogu, Olev Raju, representing the Centre Party, gave a critical speech about the system to be created. Eiki Nestor, Minister of Social Affairs at the time, and Siim Kallas, Minister of Finance, listened but closed their ears to criticism. Our representative spoke in September 2001 that the draft law on funded pensions solves, in particular, the problem of the development of the financial markets, not the pension problem, and under no circumstances does the mid-group support this draft. It's been 19 years. The negative attitude of the banks is understandable, including the Reform Party, who made the gift, along with its small satellite of that time, which has now been transformed into social democrats, is an understandable hostile war in the trenches. It's hard to admit mistakes. It's even harder to take away a gift for banks. People's savings are being melted by the government of Jüri Ratas. Foreign banks in their wealthier home country, for example, take smaller fund and service charges. Let us not forget this. And the fact is, in 2001 the middle group foresightedly voted against the funded pension law. Historical continuity is guaranteed today. Let us also for a moment be aware of the hypocrisy of the debate around us. Now the Reform Party has begun to distrust the Estonian people during the transport of Jürgen Ligi. Where does a man put his savings? To education, to health, to debt, to give to children. 'No, we don't trust,' shouts the Reform Party in the choir, 'let the bank direct, keep and grow your well-being. ' Let us recall, here, the reduction in personal income tax from 26% to 20% for populist reasons. At the time, it was good to take money from the future, social welfare, health care, family care, rescuers, nurses, child protection workers, local roads and give it to the citizen. Then the populists trusted someone who knew better what to do with their money. Extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U369	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U370	Now that the banks are being taken away from the benefits and trusting the citizen, reform parties are making a political cry. To sum it up. Today's government does not run a'narrow' policy for one party. The fall in alcohol excise is not EKRE's, and today's draft is not Fatherland's, but it is all joint work and it will be possible in the union of three parties, that is the energy, knowledge and responsibility of all parties involved. We're doing something very important today, something positive, very powerful. Ex-banker Indrek Neivelt has said that today's reform of pension funds is as a release from serfdom over 200 years ago. I agree. This is one of the cornerstones of the liberal worldview I would like to thank both the Fatherland and the EKRE on behalf of the central fraction. Together, we can make major and significant changes in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U371	Thank you. All the political groups have spoken, now this is an opportunity for the rest of the Riigikogu members. Jürgen Ligi, the first to speak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U372	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I do not call this bill the worst part of its composition, nor the smearing of a tablecloth. It's still a crime of the century. It must be acknowledged that this will determine the fate of the generations and that there will be no real solution for what will happen next, for the government. The purpose of all this crime is, of course, to pay people their money, which was still intended for retirement, now and most of it actually to get to themselves. Let's face it, this balance sheet is in the government's best interest. Every move basically costs money if you go into the fund or if you don't join it at all, and it produces in one direction. But Martin Helme is right, of course, the government does not break the pension pillar, it is still the PPP, and it is done with people playing with them for their short-term very material interests and forgetting what happens next, scaring them that there will be financial crises, devaluations, other currencies (this is exactly what the Deputy Speaker of the Riigikogu will say in today's paper). But in the course of this whole procedure, it can still be said that the decision had fallen and that the expert story did not matter. The dumber it is when one or two group presidents come here and say that the opposition is simply holding back action and has no arguments. We have put forward our arguments, our arguments coincide with the opinion of experts at almost 100%, and they also coincide with the views of virtually all constitutional institutions that this is a crime and it must not be done. That is because it is a very bad step, it is acknowledged by the procedure for this draft. Aivar Chef, of course, lies when he says that something very much was taken into account here. No, nothing was taken into account here. It's been crisis management. After all, this entire decision, which had fallen before the analysis, has now gone step by step towards mitigation in order to mitigate risks one by one, mitigating one risk, increasing the other. For example, a decision that only all money can be taken out at once. In the same way, some sort of constitutional hypothetical barrage was dealt with; in the other way, the risk was even greater. After all, Martin Helme has nicely said that we are somewhat mitigating the risk that the owners of the pillar will suffer economic damage. Whatever it was, it was a nice childish linguae. It acknowledges that the risks are all negative, no positive risk of something getting better has not been highlighted. After all, the funds have been granted credit rights, not so that they can expand their economic activities, but precisely to come out of this liquidity situation when there is a fund run, which is very likely to happen at the beginning. There's even been a reduction in income tax once again, the income tax of five hundred screwups. Once again, it must now be taken out of there, which we ourselves have been offering in another context for a long time, but now it is understood that there is another negative thing, it is now being changed. Tax incentives have been introduced to make sure that public finances actually survive. So this controversial talk, one calling out funds, the other being a disaster or a crisis, but what remains is still a crisis. This thing is still being pushed through. After all, it would be easier to eliminate the consequences rather than to mitigate the consequences by creating other negative consequences, as is the case today. The claim that something has been corrected is not really true. The essence of this bill is the same as it was at the beginning. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U373	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U374	In the final stage of the state budget control committee, we also took action when it was clear what was going to happen, and when we, the Riigikogu, no longer had time to deal with it. And what did we find out? The positions of the Ministry of Finance are exactly the same as they were a year and a half ago before the EKRE dictation. There analysts still say that we do not know what will happen in 20 to 30 years' time, no solution to how pensioners can cope, if these same numbers are still valid and 30% are smaller, not yet. There will be 1 euro in 40 cents here, but if, after a generation, the pensions will be 30% lower, no one will know what to do. There is no solution and there is still no assessment of the risk to public finances. Nobody knows where the money comes from that keeps people alive who need help. And, of course, the economy has not been addressed at all. The fall in investment, the direct loss to the funds, because they have to hold some artificial liquidity, be it some day x or a day d, which it is then, being ready, isn't it, for payouts, it all lowers the rate of return, and that doesn't interest anyone in a government coalition? But the Chancellor of Justice has now said that this is contrary to the Constitution. This is one of the most hideous of today's proceedings, but on the other hand the most successful result is that this crime is bound by a sitting government. After all, we actually made these hundreds of proposals because there was no substantive debate with us, nor has there been a debate with experts. Everything has been sent to hell, it has been said that you are interfering in politics, since the Chancellor of Justice, and it will probably be said to the President at one point when he makes a decision showing the backbone. The one quoted is Indrek Neivelt, a universal expert, who is in conflict with all real experts, who cannot elementaryly understand how the first and second pillars are related. He talks about it, writes about it. Whoever gets it, it's horrible. Then comes the Minister of Finance and says: but you see, very well said, the calculations were rejected. Without reading the texts on the same side that overturned it, Neivelt did not understand anything. But he's the only authority they rely on. For what, I don't know. What has he been up to for the past 10 or 20 years? No one knows, but he's an expert. In numerical terms, the freedom spoken of with a big mouth is practically 100% of the revenue. They give us 1.6%, but they take away 6% of that savings. An attempt is made to give up 6% of savings, a future pension, which can be estimated at 30% in the middle, and a lie as if the value of money were falling. It's not like that. Even in the context of a deep crisis, inflation has been 67% and the average return on funds has been 87%. If a smart guy here said that last year or the year before was 5.7% minus, then next year, please, was 10% plus. What are you fooling around with? Real productivity has always been...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U375	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U376	... unlike other savings. But thank you! I have a lot more to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U377	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U378	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's debate highlighted the real objective of amending the funded pension law. The purpose of this draft is to distribute pension assets collected over the years under a false label of freedom. All of this is done for the purpose of creating today's prosperity, at the expense of the future. In the future, if this bill goes through here, pensions will be even more dependent on the first pillar, but the first pillar is known to be financed by current social tax receipts on the basis of indexation. But this is not enough for a long time, and other tax revenues need to be added constantly. Neither the Minister of Finance nor the Coalition understand that current tax revenues are not enough to guarantee an acceptable standard of living for the elderly in the future. Since the effect of this draft as a whole is to reduce money due to those leaving the second pillar, it is clearly affecting pensions for the future. With this legislative amendment, the pension replacement rate, i.e. the ratio of the first pension to the last salary, will deteriorate even further, unfortunately, compared to today's situation. Distributing the second pillar will further increase the risk of poverty for our already large pensioners, while, in fact, even more money would need to be raised for future pensions than is the case today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U379	Sorry, waitress! Please, quiet up on the balcony, you're disturbing us...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U380	The same is confirmed by the explanatory memorandum to the same draft. It can be read that the draft law makes it more likely that the pension of the first and second pillars will fall even further as a result of the withdrawal of money or suspension of payments. Today's legislative amendment will not bring any additional money to the pension system. Therefore, this draft does not solve the problems that urgently need to be resolved today, but weakens and demolishes the existing pension system and does so on a large scale. Of course, there are more important things in our lives than there is money. Unfortunately, living in old age requires a monthly income. The risk of poverty for our elderly is the greatest in the European Union today. In an ageing population, a compulsory funded pension is necessary to ensure a better quality of life at retirement age. As I said, only current tax receipts are not enough for this. This is confirmed by the practice of other countries. The second pillar becomes voluntary, as is the third pillar, but we know that voluntary collection into the third pillar is far from what is necessary. Many of the shortcomings of the current system, which the breakers of the pension pillar are talking about, have been resolved or are about to be resolved today. The high administrative fees for the funds are still well below market pressure and as a result of recent legislative changes. The previous composition of the Riigikogu eased the restrictions imposed on investments in pension funds. These steps have already had an impact and are still in the process of being published. Last year, please, the combined index of pension funds increased by 9.5%, even above wage growth. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U381	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U382	Thank you! So the fact that money burns in the pension pillar isn't true. Do what you have to do, make it 9.5%! I also have a second pillar, as the Chairman of the Monetary Commission said, I have also invested independently in shares. It's pretty complicated to do 9-10%. Assuming that people who first come and start to invest through a pension account will achieve such a return, I doubt it. The exception is, of course, those who fall into the hands of the financial instruments, who are offered higher returns, but ultimately lose their return and lose that money as well. What did the Secretary of Finance tell us? He said that the yield on pension funds so far has not been strong enough. He knows that the biggest financial crisis in the last part of history also fell into this long period. Of course, making the second pillar voluntary brings much of the money collected into private consumption, then really a short-term consumption party and money collected over the years would burn with a bright flame. But this consumption party ends with hangover and empty vaults. Here the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs said that 50% of this second pillar money has been raised below EUR 4 000 and it will provide a couple of thirty euros for the second pillar pension. Yeah, the problem is there's not enough collected, unfortunately. This 17 years, compared to other countries with stronger pensions, is too short. Also, the compound interest effect of pension fund investments has not yet been shown to be correct. In summary: constitutional problems remain largely unresolved with this very regrettable draft. Impedience to ownership concerns, for example, the current second pillar. If the value of the units so far depended on the investment decisions of the management companies and the situation of the financial markets, then there is now an additional risk. In fact, the value of the shares will also depend on the behaviour of other unit-holders, i.e. the number of quitters and the proportion of the money that escapes investment funds. It is therefore not true what the Minister said here today, that nothing will change for those who remain in the second pillar. Time's up. The action of the Authority in pushing through the draft pension reform will, unfortunately, remain in history in a negative sense. It is highly irresponsible to ignore constitutional problems, to ignore and ignore the experience of pension fund collectors, experts, other market participants, other countries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U383	Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U384	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As has already been said here today, pension reform has been compared to the abolition of serfdom nearly 200 years ago. We cannot get over it or around it, indeed, we can compare this second pension pillar with the decision of a few hundred years ago to exempt the peasants from coercion. The comparison with the abolition of serfdom, however, is even more true when we look at how fiercely the nobility at the time opposed the abolition of serfdom and how fiercely and forcefully the opposition is trying to counter the current pension reform. Unfortunately, the main points of discussion between the opponents of change are frighteningly similar. In particular, the Socats and Reform Partyers find that the second pillar should certainly not be voluntary, because most people are too stupid not to say stupid to decide their own finances and their own future. I'm sorry, but with that kind of talk, the landlords tried 200 years ago to achieve the continuation of serfdom. The peasants were considered equal to children who could not cope on their own and who could not live free. In other words, a peasant was taken as a wildling without rational thinking and who does not know what is good or good for him. It is paradoxical, however, that the current conservative government gives people the freedom to decide for themselves, and the liberals, i.e. the Soviets and the Reform Party, are strongly opposed to giving freedom. I wonder why the liberals of Estonia have started to crave a country that treats its citizens like silly savages. Is it to carry out the interests of its major donors, including the political order of the bankers? The question will no doubt remain in the air, because it is no secret that it is the banks that are most interested in keeping the public's pension money flowing into their cup. However, according to a survey by Turku Research AS, the majority of people are in favour of making the second pillar optional. According to a study conducted in autumn, 68% of them were available. Most people realise in practice that there is no dismantling of the pension pillar, but that the reform will lead to greater freedom of choice in pension decisions. Those who wish to continue collecting into the second pension pillar, as they have done so far, will certainly be able to do so by a large number of people. At the same time, it is possible to stop making payments, but to keep what was collected in the pension fund. Only the third option is to stop making payments and invest the money in real estate or otherwise, or really take out the money, and, as they said, burn it. Neither I nor the present coalition believe that the people are so stupid. We believe that the people are smart enough to be able to evaluate and reasonably exercise the financial freedom that comes with pension reform, and that is certainly Estonians. I wish you wise mind, common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U385	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U386	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the Estonian pension system is to "help people to maintain their standard of living and monthly income when they go to retirement pensions'. The dismantling of pension pillars will not bring us closer to this goal in any way. The decision that we are going through today is aimed only at momentary well-being and improving it, so that today is easier, without thinking about what tomorrow will bring. The victims are all those people who are not able to make the right investment decisions and who are unable to save their old age. But in fact, our children and grandchildren are also suffering, who will have to pay for the entire consumption party that starts with today's decision one day. You know, I am concerned, the Reform Party is concerned, and the Minister, who was firmly opposed to such developments about a year ago, is also concerned. On Monday, I asked the Prime Minister whether he was not concerned about the fate of people who lack knowledge of investment or who lack discipline and responsibility, about the fate of people who are unable to save every day for the next decades. The Prime Minister said, "You have to keep something in your stockings, right? " From this answer, it was felt that the Prime Minister, too, had no clear plan as to how people would survive their lives in a few decades' time. However, the current pension system is being demolished. You know, every system has flaws, but it's possible to correct them. Breaking love is a criminal offence. Let's not do this! After that, it will be much harder and more costly to rebuild. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U387	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U388	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It's not reform, it's vandalism. As a member of the opposition, Mr Ardo Hansson, former Governor of Eesti Pank, has spoken so harshly about pension reform. I wouldn't hesitate to argue with him and with many other experts who have been criticised here, who dominate. The previous speaker also said that everyone was saying the same thing. Well, he thinks the mirror's lying. Rather than refer to an expert who says what he wants, if everyone says one thing, you might believe it. By approving this draft, the state, more precisely, today's government coalition will either reduce itself or recognise the inability to provide our people with a dignified old-age pension. He puts the responsibility for people's future pensions on a much greater scale than today. At the same time, I dare admit that obviously the Estonian state alone cannot guarantee a decent pension for our people in their old age. This must be done by the state and the citizen in cooperation. It is obvious that very many people do not think about pensions when they are 20 or 30 years old, which is why a certain administrative coercion or carrot, which is actually what today's second pension pillar means, is definitely inevitable. If many of the supporters of this draft, above all from the Fatherland, have claimed how smart our people are to invest, etc., I will once again recall what the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia said this Monday in reply to the question: 'The attitude of very many people is exactly the same that they do not care what the pension is. ' When I asked Jüri Ratas and referred him to this quote, he claimed to me that he didn't, he didn't say that. I read in the verbatim, that is exactly what the Prime Minister said. Now the state is putting responsibility for future pensions on these people themselves. There are also many legal nuances, which are very problematic. There is one peculiar nuance that has actually been said very little. In my opinion, this law is also contrary to the Social Tax Act. In the Social Tax Act, we take the term'social tax': it is a financial obligation imposed on taxpayers to obtain the income necessary for pension insurance and public health insurance. For two purposes: pension insurance and public health insurance. I understand that for those people who have joined the second pillar and who have reached retirement age and are withdrawing this money, there is certainly no contradiction with this concept of social tax, but there are those who have not yet reached retirement age and who are withdrawing this money. They cannot use it in any way for pension insurance because they still have not reached it. Yes, theoretically, they can use it as health insurance, but let us specify this term: social tax is intended for state health insurance, so that the health insurance fund has money to pay for the costs of our treatment. More importantly, it is actually a contradiction with the Constitution, to which the Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise refers: 'The bill gives people who have joined a compulsory funded pension the choice of whether to continue collecting or to take the money (including the social tax allocated by the State) for retirement before their retirement age and to use it at their own discretion. People of the same age who have not joined the compulsory funded pension cannot obtain 4% of the social tax paid on their pay. The social tax burden on comparable groups is retroactively different when members of a compulsory funded pension withdraw money. ' More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U389	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U390	People who have not joined the second pension pillar have borne a higher social tax burden, which has gone to the first pillar. The Chancellor of Justice concludes my quote: 'The wide discretion of the Riigikogu in matters of social policy does not apply to the retroactive amendment of the law. ' I have not joined the second pillar of the pension, and I have the question that I, too, would like to get 4% of what has gone into the first pillar. I don't have that chance. However, this opportunity will be given to those who have joined the second pension pillar. If I had known when the second pillar of pension applied as it has been established that I have the right to withdraw 4% later at one point, then I would have joined the second pillar. But I didn't know that, and that's why I don't have that chance. I am not really surprised at the fact that some law firm is going to lay off the claims of citizens who have not joined the second pillar but whose 4% have gone to the first pillar. They claim a claim against the State that they too want to get 4% of it. Why do we treat our people very differently? However, another very peculiar nuance came out of Mr Helme's speech, which is still a significant difference if I take this money out of the second pillar or not. The second pillar is known to be inherited, but the first pillar is not inherited. Maybe my 4% paid there, too, is hanging on a hair, and my children or grandchildren may not have the right to get that money out of there. However, those who have joined the second pension pillar will receive it at 4%, including bequeathing, etc. A great deal has been said about the low yield of pension funds. This rate of return cannot be high if the country puts on very harsh heads. In fact, there were very few opportunities for pension funds to invest this money in shares, for example. Only at the end of 2018 with huge support from both the coalition and the opposition in this very hall supported this liberalisation, which really provided an opportunity for investment funds to invest this money in somewhat riskier investment instruments, i.e. shares, which offer higher returns. In fact, last year's result also showed, perhaps economic conjunction also contributed a little to how good the real results were. Now it's all being pushed aside overnight. Finally. For me, this is a very worrying trend at the expense of the future, so at national level, looking at today's government coalition, but unfortunately I must also say this about my hometown, and now the state favours that citizens do it too. If, in the case of a citizen, this living at the expense of the future is often inevitable if he does not have these resources, then under no circumstances should the state or the municipality favour living at the expense of the future. One billion withdrawals represent 250 million additional tax revenues in the state budget that could be shared. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U391	Hanno Pevkur, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U392	Mr President of the meeting! Ladies and gentlemen, who are you in the hall, dear people of Estonia, who are watching us through Postimees or other media! Maybe it wouldn't be appropriate to quote a lot of people who are loved by a lot of Debelak, but today it has to be. In fact, this morning, there were two very important brief news reports on the Debelak news, and I will read them here. 'In addition to pension reform, the government is about to start a reform of the traffic code, which would make compliance with traffic rules optional. As of 1 June, the draft would maintain the possibility for people to comply with or not to comply with traffic rules if they so wished, as the situation and need require. There are no analyses, but the Estonians cannot be considered so stupid that they would not be able to decide for themselves how it is safe to travel on a voluntary basis. After all, no one wants to harm themselves and others, and it is certain that people are the right ones to decide their lives and destiny. It would be too much for the state to impose pressure and guardianship here. Unfortunately, in Estonia, which calls itself a democratic state, this is all the opposite at the moment, as stated in the explanatory memorandum. ' That was the first news. And the second news: 'The government is still actively seeking austerity alongside other activities and is determined to save on impact analyses. For each law and other intention, an impact analysis has to be commissioned and slowed down, and good plans remain stalled, not to mention the amounts spent on impact analysts. 'Cause you can see how one or the other law or act works. Why find out first? ' the Prime Minister asks. 'Every thing we do has an effect, and trying to see the future all the time is ungrateful and meaningless work. The law first, the effects later, without analysis. This is the government's style of action for the coming years,' confirmed by the Prime Minister. ' That's the two news we had on Kuku Radio this morning. Somehow they hit the spot today. So, what do we know? We know that the government has brought before us a draft that they do not intend to discuss. The members of the coalition are only tied to one place, it's a green button. No matter what we say in favour of the opposition here or not, everything has been decided in advance, even though the content is something that I believe a large number of members of the coalition either do not understand or do not want to understand. This actually turns the entire Estonian pension insurance system upside down. Thomas was talking about some important nuances here. But let us also think once again that the opportunity to withdraw 4% is actually being given today, rather than being put in the 20% and saying that okay, if a person has paid 2% of his salary, or rather, the employer has stopped, then people are free to do so. I think it would have deprived the Chancellor of Justice and many other experts of the opportunity to say that this law is contrary to the principle of equal treatment and therefore contrary to the Constitution. But no, stubbornly, stubbornly, we still give people a great deal of freedom to decide what is really meant by the state for pension insurance. But now it can be used for a warm-up trip, as we heard, or a loan repayment or anything else. All experts, perhaps with a few small exceptions, who want to please the coalition, have said that this bill will reduce pensions in the future. That makes sense, too. If you take pension assets that have already been collected out of the pension fund today, the pension will in any case be lower. Most legal experts in Estonia, both law firms and the Chancellor of Justice, have said that this bill is in conflict with the Constitution. Forget it, we'll take it! We're still accepting against the Constitution, no matter what! Experts are or are not, even civil servants are or are not, we still accept! You know, Viktor Vassiliev, who's sitting there, can afford to try and heal people on television because he doesn't have any consequences or "effects" because people call, get good advice, and that's how it stays. But if you take people in the doctor's office, you'll be responsible for what you're doing. In this hall, we are responsible to the Estonian people because we are empowered to take decisions for the people. The sustainability of the pension system is also something that this hall must adopt and must decide what is a sustainable pension system. But we say that we do not want a sustainable pension system, what has been collected, let go. Well, it's not pretty, it's really not pretty! Right now, there's still a chance some common sense will come home and tell you to listen, a pension can only be paid if you're retiring. We have deliberately created the pension system as we have the means in the first pillar, we are compulsory to put resources in the second pillar, and everyone can voluntarily put it in the third pillar if they wish. This together must also ensure, as Mr Šmigun said here, the objective of pension insurance: to ensure a decent living in retirement. We know that there is an agreed principle across Europe that an average net pension could be around 40% or at least 40% of the average net wage. When Mr Šmigun asked Mr Helme whether this bill would bring us closer to whether or not it would lead us towards it, the answer was that it would not. This bill will take us beyond that. Well, here we are. There are not many members of the coalition in the Chamber because they do not want to listen. But they want to decide, even if they don't know what they're gonna decide. So, ladies and gentlemen, in the current situation, we have nothing to do but hope that a ray of light will come from somewhere and people will realise that it is unwise to adopt this law. Otherwise, I very, very much hope that the President will go to the Supreme Court with this dispute and if the members of the coalition do not listen to those who advise them not to adopt this law or at least state that it is contrary to the Constitution, then the Supreme Court will say so. Let's hear the calls, let's hope for the best. Hope dies last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U393	Urmas Kruuse, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U394	Ladies and gentlemen, who have remained in the Chamber! Hypocrisy has been running through the governments of Jüri Ratas for several years. On the one hand, his actions and the bill we have in the Chamber today are not a surprise. If we recall the principles of drawing up previous and also this year's budgets, the one thing that has always gone through there is that, at some point, if it is necessary to give gifts to the people before the elections, they will be quick to make this gift. Let us recall, even so-called 'roof money', which was distributed before the elections. The only thing fortunately was what we saw on behalf of the people, that it had no effect, that is, all the parties that made this decision then lost their votes in this Chamber after the elections. To say from this point of view that this pension reform has a mandate... It doesn't exist, including in Fatherland, who actually lost places. So the connection that the Fatherland has given it the mandate of a great nation could be reversed and said that your seats were actually reduced here. But since there are not many surprises, the Minister here today continues to be hypocritical: we discussed, we gave the opportunity, we got involved. But remember the discussion organised in Eesti Pank several months ago. What did the Minister of Finance say? You can discuss anything here, but the decision has already been made. It also affected us in this hall and the people. Remembering why the country ever did this, it is clear that the message that it gave to society was that we were gathering together. 'Let us gather together' means that, after this reform, both citizens and the state as a whole have lost. In fact, the citizen loses individually in the fact that his pension will be smaller in the future, and the state loses in the fact that he has to find more funds in the future on an ongoing basis, which means that future generations will literally pay for this deficit. I'm looking at my good colleague, Raivo E.Tamme. We have been accused, or rather accused, of a Chancellor of Justice who has pointed out that this is a violation of the fundamental right and is treated unequally. In my opinion, Mr Lotman said in his article that in fact the starting line was already unequal. True, but one might ask why it was or how it was. If we recall when the retirement age arrives, we could, on the one hand, compare the starting line to the stadium circle. If you've noticed a 400 or 800 meter race, you know that those on the inner circle are in one place, but those on the outer circle are in another position on the starting position, which means that they are equal in the finish line. That means, according to how old we were at that point, we got a different start. But certainly at that moment, the country did not tell anyone that this money could at some point be such that we could consume it. This system was clearly created because we would have to use this money when we were in retirement, regardless of the fact that we may have social needs. When we are told why we do not love the freedom of a person and his judgment, remember that our country and our Riigikogu have had a responsibility. The responsibility was also at the moment when we noticed that high-speed credit offices took unfairly high interest rates from people and people got caught up in a bigger trap. Then the Riigikogu found that we need to regulate it. It's the same with retirement. The state has, in my opinion, a duty to ensure a certain minimum, which does not preclude people collecting more themselves. What do we know about statistics? It is generally said that quality is when we compare domesticly and also foreignly. Today we do not take the foreign analog absolutely into account. This absolute disregard means that if we have an honorable minister here today on the remote and says that one experiment lasted 17 years, let's do the next, maybe it will last 17 years, let's do it again, then he doesn't really realize that in order for this experiment to work at all, it has to have worked consistently for at least 30 to 40 years. This means that it is not possible that in 17 years all people will receive a very large pension number. But this step has been made for the future, that is, for the benefit of these generations, which is why a certain obligation was imposed that if they reached retirement age, they could taste it. What's the financial logic? It's not very complicated. But the simple thing is that if we collect some amount and take it out twice as much as half the way, we won't be able to achieve a financial effect. Important knowledge for all of us today is that despite the fact that we are not satisfied with productivity, allegedly, as we all speak, there has been a positive return, even a positive real return. Positive means that with the money we have put in there at one point, we will be able to buy equally at retirement age. That makes sense. The alternative that's being imposed on us today is that it's actually good if you don't put something aside for one year. If this reform, which we call scrapping with the right name, had only been put on the table in order to have a certain "investment account" there, then it would have been possible to understand that there is a desire to extend the freedom of choice in relation to people's pensions. But in these debates, both today and in the past, I have seen only one thing: the main aim of the changes was for people to be able to withdraw money more conveniently. I mean, that's the main thing. I say that this is not the responsible behaviour of a small country. Hope that we can put 3, 4 or 5 billion blanks into the Estonian economy with our pension funds is completely hopeless and foolish because it would be wise to share risks. Funds and big funds can do that. As our small investors, we certainly cannot do this to this extent. In my opinion, there is a simple law of nature that I have already described. If we cut the flowers off on the apple tree, we won't get the harvest in the fall. If one spring takes away the cold flowers, one year the crop will be caught, but that's not why we cut down the tree. Today, respected coalition partners, you've picked up a saw and cut down that apple tree that got cold one year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U395	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U396	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, listeners! Today's debate on the second pillar has indeed been extraordinary. I do not know whether such a fact-finding has ever been carried out in history in this Chamber, that if the minister gives an answer to almost every question, the next or the next questioner has to supplement that answer, say sorry, but the facts are like that. Just as Urmas Kruuse ended up, indeed, the minister started with the way he met and was involved, but I was also there in the seminar hall of Eesti Pank, where we were referred to as people who are fighting against a thing that has long been decided. With substantial involvement! The minister moved on, compared it to the first pillar, said that money would come back to the first pillar and that the sustainability of the pension system would increase. Even if some of the collections are withdrawn and the number of contributors is reduced in the future, the assets of the first pillar or those of the pension insurance cannot grow in any way. Wins 20% higher income earners. However, calculations show that the second pillar is more beneficial for everyone, including those earning minimum wages. I was surprised, for example, by the reply of the Chancellor of Justice to the citizen. This person's collection period was short, there was a time of financial crisis, he had chosen a very conservative, low-income fund, and when he retired a few years ago, the second pillar was still more useful for him; it is now more useful, it will also be more useful in a few years' time. If the second pillar of such choices is more useful to man than just being in the first pillar, what are we talking about? The Minister is worried about the low-paid. I would also support any change that would allow the country, for example, to contribute more to the second pillar of a person earning lower than the average income, or instead of contributing proportionally to the income, to contribute equal taxes to the second pillar of the absolute value, both me and the low-paid. But for some reason, the bill does not contain such proposals. Under the freedom of choice, it's the saying that we promise a reunion. Previous On 12 December 2018 the Riigikogu decided that it is possible to rejoin the second pillar. This decision was made under the same legislative amendment, which allows for a flexible retirement age and links the first pillar pension to 50% of the seniority and 50% of the income. In all of this, the collection is unreasonable, the collection burns, the rate of return is lower than inflation, colleagues Andres Sutt, Aivar Sõerd and Jürgen Ligi have already responded. It has been argued that we are at the zero point of the second pillar, 17 years have been terrible, nothing has gotten better. Index funds have come to the market, fund fees have fallen 4 times, the volume of assets invested in Estonia has increased significantly, the yield has increased The Minister had an argument that the reform was not retroactive. However, we are reviewing the decisions that people made in 2003 or what they would have wanted to do if they knew what the government was planning today. Not to mention the fact that the Minister cannot be precise about the pension system. When Jüri Jaanson asked about suicides and referred to the number of suicides increased in 2009, i.e. during the crisis, the Minister confidently opposed the fact that no, nothing grew. I looked up, indeed, the number of suicides per 100000 inhabitants increased, especially among men up in 2009. Jüri Jaanson was right, the minister was wrong. This disregard for facts is absolutely unbelievable. How can the government's trust-related bill be protected in this way? Okay, next, no risks. Several colleagues, including Katri Raik, asked about informing people. The minister said yes, but people can observe the public debate. I'm sure people are trying to get up to speed, that's his answer. I hope that people will not try to familiarise themselves on the basis of the information provided by the Minister of Finance, because there is no connection with the facts. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U397	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U398	Risk mitigation in the event of fraud involving released money, risks to the macroeconomic environment, the assets of collectors, risk of rising fees on investment accounts. In fact, the effects of the reform should also be ex-post assessed. It's got total immunity. Live in the short term. Of course, it is inevitable that we do not know the future: Corona virus was detected in Lapland, the Middle East, and we do not know if winter will ever come in Estonia again. But you can't run the country like this, we're selling icebreakers now, because right now we don't have a sea frozen. Last but not least, indifference to our laws in force. § 1 of the Social Tax Act really says that social tax is used for pension and health insurance. The Minister's reference that the second pillar of the pension was privatisation and that law was violated 17 years ago is completely non-relevant because the objective did not change. The money remained in the second pillar, which a person can use in retirement for his or her pension. Section 1 of the Social Tax Act was completed. Now it will no longer be enforced if the law enters into force. And the whole attitude towards the Chancellor of Justice, who allegedly, according to the Minister, offers political solutions. Helir-Valdor Seeder also asked the Estonian residents last Thursday about the political decisions we have here, whether politicians with a mandate or high-ranking state officials, the President and the Supreme Court. Political decisions, yes, are made by politicians, but the mandate that we have, the mandate that the government has, has to act within the framework of the Constitution. You cannot make political decisions of all kinds, but only within the framework of the Constitution. The Chancellor of Justice is not an official, it is an institution. The same applies to the President and the Supreme Court. Finally. All these references to belief that we believe in an increase in productivity. Faith is undoubtedly necessary, helps many people in life, faith in themselves, ability to cope, God, a better future, the goodness of people, but the influence of law changes is not a matter of faith. Decisions should be based on knowledge, information, analysis, but the analysis does not prescribe the decision. What bothers me is that for some reason there is no courage to say that yes, there are risks that productivity may not increase, yield may fall or fees may rise, or people may withdraw money, but I, as Minister of Finance or as Prime Minister, take that risk, I have an understanding of the risks, of the negative side effects, but I accept it, I am responsible. There's no such thing as courage. In such a hurry, a draft drawn up on the basis of faith and gut, which, under the label of freedom of choice, wishes to generate extraordinary budget revenue and, before the municipal elections, to give money to people, cannot be supported. If the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have the courage to recognise the risks and understanding of what the effects of the draft are, it can be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U399	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U400	Ladies and gentlemen, As a long-standing political landscape, I would rather recall today the circumstances that forced me to adopt the funded pension law in 2001 and why I am against amending this law today. At the end of the 1990s, it was clear to the members of both the government and the Riigikogu that the current national pension system, which is dependent on social tax, is not sustainable. By this time, the demographics had expressed a worrying view that, according to the forecast for the future of the Estonian population, fewer social tax payers would enter the labour market on the one hand, but at the same time life expectancy, i.e. people would live longer and they would be pensioners for a longer period. It was obvious that social tax alone would not be sufficient to pay pensions and that the ratio to pay, i.e. the pension replacement rate, would continue to decrease and that this fact could not be eliminated by changing the formula for indexing pensions in any form. Only political agreements on extraordinary pension increases, or populism, could be expected. What kind of political power exceeds, it is supported in another election. Thus, in 2001 the Riigikogu passed the Pensions Act, which created the so-called three-pillar system. For those born until 1982, the second pillar of collection was voluntary, compulsory for those born after 1982. In addition, a third, or voluntary, pension pillar was created together with a tax credit. The fact that those born before 1982 had voluntary contributions to the second pension pillar was a purely pragmatic consideration, as the time of collection before retirement is short and payouts may not be significant in the future. This pillar-based pension system is not unique; it is in circulation in many European countries and is also widely accepted. It is true that 17 years have shown that there are also errors in the system, which the Riigikogu has also corrected, particularly in terms of making the fund's administrative fees and investment more flexible. It is obvious that the possibilities of withdrawing pension must also be made more diverse, as the Estonian Reform Party has proposed with its draft. But it is neither reasonable nor helpful to destroy the entire system of funded pensions, nor to improve the lives of our pensioners. The fact is that very few people have joined a voluntary funded pension, the third pillar. Hence my conviction that not to say faith: by making the second pillar voluntary, the second pillar will also be reduced in the future. And we are back in the 1990s, while the demographic situation remains the same. Therefore, this destruction of the pension system cannot be accepted in any way. It is populist, to buy votes with money paid out before the local elections, and later, before the Riigikogu elections, to distribute hundreds of millions of euros into the state budget for roofing money. This is a cynical act that makes the future of Estonian pensioners darker and sadder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U401	Head of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! When I applied for the Riigikogu, I promised to stand up for the well-being of culture, education and science in Estonia, but also for sustainable and environmentally friendly management and for the dignified old age of our people, although in these latter areas I do not consider myself a specialist. Many colleagues firmly believe that we have not been elected to this hall in order to put Estonia's life only according to our own pattern of life. Unfortunately, the breakers of the pension system have often referred to how well they have secured themselves to old age, acquired real estate and invested. The emphasis is on me, me, me. What about us? The future of all of us? We ask: what problem are we solving today, what is the aim of the government's pension reform? The Coalition has stressed the need to increase people's freedom, but the question of why freedom should be increased in the proposed way is left unanswered. Freedom can also be increased in such a way as to maintain the compulsory nature of the second pillar, even in a way that, in certain cases, would allow the savings collected to be partly or completely withdrawn, for example in the form and in the cases proposed by the opposition in the draft. The Coalition has stressed the need to increase human responsibility in defending the reform. Where, however, is the responsibility of us Riigikoguists? Under § 28 (2) of the Constitution, everyone has the right to state aid in their old age. There is also the right to demand a decent pension for those who have decided to spend all the savings collected in the second pillar or who choose not to join the second pillar at all. Yes, we agree that all kinds of reforms need to be reviewed and improved where possible. The important changes concerning the second pension pillar entered into force last September. Their aim was to improve the productivity of compulsory retirement provision, and all signs indicate that these changes have already had a positive impact. So, according to current knowledge, the low productivity of pension funds should no longer be a problem. The society had heated discussions and discussions on pension reform. That's good. But there are also discussions on the constitutionality of the bill. The majority of the lawyers who analysed the bill see a contradiction with the Constitution. The most critical is the legal analysis prepared by the Ministry of Finance. These threats have been described, among others, by the renowned law firms Sorainen and Ellex Raidla. Today, however, the Chancellor of Justice is accused of interfering in day-to-day politics. Oh, my God! The Chancellor of Justice will and must do his job when he points out the important weaknesses and contradictions of the reform with the Constitution. The competence of the Chancellor of Justice is to bring important disputes in society to the Supreme Court. It is only in this way that legal certainty can be achieved that the laws are compatible with the Constitution. It is very good that the Chancellor of Justice refers to problems before we vote in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. Once again, I quote Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. 4 November 2018, a year ago: 'In our ageing society, the collection of pensions is certainly necessary, otherwise we will have to significantly increase the tax burden on future generations, even in order to maintain the current wage-pension ratio. Therefore, the second pension pillar must definitely be maintained as part of a public pension. ' And then,'Making the savings pension voluntary would mean that our people should be prepared to accept lower pensions in the future. Since old-age pensions are certainly not high enough at the moment and a large proportion of our elderly live in relative poverty, the proposals leading to this reduction are not justified. ' Can I have three more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U402	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U403	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U404	'The possibility of voluntary collection into the third pillar already exists for the current working people. ' I have not heard the Prime Minister's explanation, which has forced the firm conviction expressed a year ago to change. That makes me cautious and anxious because a 180-degree change of mind is not statesmanly. Finally. By linking the reform of the Samba to a vote of confidence, the power union assumes 100% responsibility for the well-being of the pension system. But the pillars have been pushed and erected by the politicians of the Fatherland before. Still against the will of the public, still against what professionals say. One pillar of shame is not very far from this hall and needs constant repair. Every time I pass, it's a shame I didn't fight harder in my day. We started today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U405	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U406	Ladies and gentlemen, There's a bill going through half the other pension pillar in this hall today. The pension system was created in 2001 by a government run by Mart Laari. Looking behind you at the very low birth rate in the 1990s and looking into the future and realising that small generations will not be able to sustain large generations of retirement age in the future, looking towards the Western countries, how they have ensured a dignified old age for older people, looking honestly and clearly into the future, and finding that young workers coming into the labour market with a year of birth in 1983 or younger must bear a heavy burden, while raising their children, helping their parents and compulsory collection of money for their old age days, it is clear that they were bold and only the right decisions at a poor time when the average wage was 300 euros and we worked hard to get into the European Union and NATO. It is often said that there are no indispensables. However, no one has been able to replace Mart Laar's vision in Fatherland. My deepest respect for him and the politicians at that time! The Fatherland Party has not only lost sight of purpose, vision, the view of human age. Moreover, the party has begun to cut down trees planted 17 years ago. They're not gonna be a house, they're just gonna be a fireplace. But the Estonian proverb says that the loan bread and the poster won't last long. So, what's the result of the demolition? Pensions will be smaller in the future by a whole third if we leave the second pillar optional, because the number of people who will pay social tax will be reduced by a whole third in 20 years' time. If you do not raise your social tax, today, you will basically have a 40% wage replacement rate of 25%. All working people, today's second pillar owners could put 25% of the usual costs in their wallet before withdrawing money from the second pillar and try to get out until the end of the month. If not, add 15% and keep the second pillar. If not, reduce your costs, save and look for additional investment opportunities. Postpone your consumption today to retirement so that old age does not sink into poverty. The second pillar funds today bring together almost EUR 5 billion, which is almost half of the national budget, apart from revenue from the European Union and from quota sales. Large amounts of money can make large, fundamental, strategic, long-term investments. Large amounts of money can spread investment risks, invest in different markets, different asset classes, different financial instruments, bonds and shares. It is possible to hire the best experts to place money. Maintaining the value of money in time is, in my opinion, the most difficult task for finance and requires quite a spiritual contribution. There are quite a few graduates of the Faculty of Economics of the University of Tartu in this hall, and I am among them, and most or most of them have said that they have a second pension pillar and they do not plan to leave there. I am among them because I can appreciate the work that pension funds have done. If a 25-year-old person goes to work and joins the second pillar, he will pay 2% of his salary to the second pillar, he will be involved in creating the competitiveness of the Estonian economy. The first year's contribution can be invested for 40 years to create economic growth and stability in Estonia for itself, right now and in retirement. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U407	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U408	It has saved and invested in competition with the Guarantee Fund in the best way for polished management fees, with its full focus on the main work. A lot has been said here, and the Minister also said that we cannot see the future; the future is indeterminate. But we also know that the more uncertain the future is, the better we must be prepared. I cannot agree with the Minister for Finance that saving and investing is pointless, which should be stopped immediately and for which people must definitely not be obliged by law. There was a lot of talk about alcohol and alcohol duty recently in this Chamber. Too much alcohol is pointless, I agree with that. But the share of alcohol spending in the total cost of Estonians was 5.2% in 2018, which is almost as much as the second pillar is paid by the state and the person together. If the government were really concerned about people, we would not discuss today how to immediately distribute the money they have accumulated in retirement to people, so it will continue to be 5.2% for alcohol purchases, but how to guide the people of Estonia to behave sensibly so that they use their free money, even today, which would otherwise be spent on alcohol, independently and wisely investing. Seriously. Prime Minister Ratas has promised a united state and fair prosperity to all throughout his political career. Unfortunately, during the years of his head of government, the number of pensioners living in relative poverty is approaching almost half of the pensioners. This draft 108, the voluntaryisation of the second pension pillar, will only push up the number of pensioners living in poverty. It is a short-sighted and silly draft, disastrous in the conditions of Estonian public administration spoiled with European Union subsidies. Ladies and gentlemen, please vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U409	Thank you. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U410	Ladies and gentlemen, A lot has already been said by the previous speakers. The following topics may seem elementary and reiterating the broken record, but the situation in which we today have to vote through the government's trust issue without the possibility of a substantive debate on a topic that plays a major role in the life of some 740000 Estonian people and in Estonian public finances shows that some basic truths still need to be repeated. First of all, I ask what problem we are solving by breaking the second pillar and distributing the money we have collected for retirement. This continues to be incomprehensible to me and to most experts. The Estonian population is ageing. The analysis prepared by Eesti Pank confirms the fact that the ratio of employees to old age pensioners will be lower in the future due to the ageing population. The most critical moment arrives around 2060 when only 1.6 employees per old-age pension business are available compared to the current 2.2 employees. This, in turn, means that pensions under the first pillar cannot be paid in the same amount, even less without significantly increasing the overall tax burden or immigration. The alternative to drastically falling pensions or increasing tax migration is to increase people's own participation, and that is why the second pillar has been created, because saving, we probably know everyone, is not easy at all. Research will prove that. According to Eesti Pank, many people who joined the second pillar do not have significant savings in another form, and 30% of people have liquid assets for less than 200 euros. Half of the participants in the second pillar have liquid assets for less than EUR 800. We can be pretty sure that those people who have not been able to generate savings in today's favourable economic situation are not motivated to do so even after the second pillar has been released and will continue to rely on the help of the state in the future. They are, of course, right to do so, because, as a result of § 28 of the Constitution, a person in his old age has the right to state aid. Knowing, however, that this is not feasible, and taking away the responsibility of people to invest themselves in their own future, we are creating a situation where the populist decisions taken today must be paid off by no one other than our children, and the additional burden of supporting those who do not manage themselves falls on both the state and local authorities. As a parent, a Member of Parliament and a member of the Rae Vallavoli Council, I do not consider such action and the creation of an additional obligation to be justified or justified. We can already see today that even in a favourable economic climate, there is never enough available resources, and the pension increase made by the Centre Party of 7 euros, which, let us be honest, seems ridiculous at the moment, in 40 years' time, when the hand of work is scarce, is an unachievable dream. While it may be difficult for some Members of Parliament who, hopefully, have already invested some part of their decent income for their future today to relate, as representatives of the legislative power, we should still have a sacred constitution. However, the draft we are going to vote on today is, as we know, contrary to this, creating unequal treatment. A non-member of the compulsory second pillar is unable to freely introduce 4% of the social tax paid on his or her salary. If a member of the second pillar withdraws money from the fund, the social tax burden for these groups will be different retroactively. However, this disproportionately violates the fundamental right of persons for whom social tax has also been paid but who have not joined the second pillar and who cannot withdraw 4% of social tax as a specific amount of money. So today, the coalition is giving a green light to the bill, which makes our country and our people poorer and fails our people, the people who have chosen us here to protect their interests while remaining faithful to the constitutional order. Fortunately, I, who have only recently taken my oath before you, remember this well, but as a guardian of legislative power, we should each perhaps remind ourselves of it sometimes. Today's government... Extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U411	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U412	Today's government puts us in front of the fact of trusting them or the Constitution and every day experts dedicated to knowing it. By swearing today with a push of a button to trust the government and the Prime Minister, who, until recently, also considered the breaking of the second pillar unreasonable ourselves, we are breaking up a system that should have ensured our future and paving the way for the many unsuccessful choices that we have tried to protect our people from so far. Those who have come into contact with investment know that it is not a game of chance, but stability and long-termity are key words that guarantee success. Now, however, there is a chance that political propaganda will give rise to free money or, in the event of a recession, when people fear losing their investment, they can make irrational decisions on emotions. If there is a massive departure from the second pillar, however, the remaining will be terrified of whether the value of their investment will also decline. This means an additional obstacle to legitimate expectations if the additional possibilities created by the State to collect a pension or to withdraw money collected up to now in the second pillar of the pension cause the situation of those who continue with the current system to deteriorate. There is no less danger of losing your money as a result of someone's malicious persuasion. This is a serious concern that experts have also warned the government about. If, as a result of the above reasons, our people withdraw their money from the second pillar, hoping to protect it and look for investment opportunities themselves, they will become an easy target. Although a lot has been said about various scams, we often hear in the media how people have been defrauded with a promise of high returns. I am convinced that the release of EUR 5 billion of second pillar money will also result in a large number of products with a very high yield promise, the real aim of which is not to raise people's money but to fill their own pockets. In a situation in which the state can no longer be trusted, but in order to make the right choices we may not have the skills ourselves, I urge all of us that, should the destructive draft of our pension system become a law in this Chamber today, it is our duty to monitor the activities of such malicious figures in society and to know society and to advise our relatives that not everything may be gold that glows. But it is clear that these stories will not be missed, and that is truly a pity. The losers are our own people, and today's government must be responsible for this. To sum it up. Today's coalition in the rush to break the second pillar has ignored the opinions of almost all experts and has recently begun to attack the Chancellor of Justice who is doing his job. As expected, the Prime Minister proposed last week, without any substantive debate in the Riigikogu, to use a roller and link such an important topic to the government's vote of confidence for the whole of society. We know that the only reason for this is the lack of substantive arguments and irresponsibility and disregard for the future of our country and people alongside the incomprehensible freedom narrative. The Prime Minister and the Government, acting in this way, can only be distrusted in the vote of confidence. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, before you press the button, I urge you once again to think about the people of Estonia and the future of the country and to express the mistrust you deserved and desired to the government! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U413	Thank you. Lauri West Forest, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U414	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill is not just about pensions and pensioners. This bill and the decision that has been put before us is much wider: it is a question of immigration, taxes, poverty, justice, social solidarity, the well-being of Estonian families. Although we are talking directly about pensions here, the whole debate today is about broader issues. How can we cope with a situation where in a few decades there will be fewer people at work, or taxpayers, than today? So how do we support society? How do we cover defence costs, health care and also pensions? Perhaps if we do not want a thinner and poorer country, how will the same amount of taxes be collected with fewer taxpayers as today? Yes, this issue revolves most around pensions, because they form the largest whole part of the state budget. Without doing anything, the pension paid in 20 years will be one third less than today. In comparison with today's currency, instead of the current average public pension of EUR 480, the future pensioner would receive EUR 330. It's against common sense, living in total poverty. Three solutions have been proposed to avoid this problem. First, instead of taxing young families to death in the future, we ourselves collect the pension deficit. The same third that the country will not be able to pay in the future. This is the solution we call the second pillar of pension. Number 2, instead of 33%, we tax the working people with a 40% social tax. Number 3, let's patch up the labour market with 100,000 migrant workers. Of course, the result could be a combination of all three scenarios. But it still doesn't fit my mind why we should quietly choose more taxes and more migrant workers than fundraising today. Dear Members of the Fatherland, it is an outrageous family policy to tax Estonian families severely! While the second pillar helps every elderly person to become more responsible for their old age, dismantling the system is a step in the opposite direction. Responsibility for maintaining an elderly person moves completely to his children and grandchildren. Ladies and gentlemen of the EKRE, what has happened to you? What has happened to your promises and principles that I, the Socialist, must come and say that this decision that you want to make here today will lead to a very high level of labour immigration and is not good for Estonia? You are putting Estonia's society and state under compulsion; in the future, up to 100,000 migrant workers will need to be brought to the country to pay the pension so that the necessary pension money will come together as taxes. The worst part is it doesn't solve the problem. These people will grow old, and they will also need to pay their pensions in the future, or they will need new migrant workers. There is no point in talking about restricting the rights of a few hundred foreign students and showing it as a struggle against immigration or keeping the number of residence permits unchanged when you make a decision here today that will radically change Estonia's demographic situation. Honourable middle partyers, why can't I find the painful truth about getting out of the second pillar at the Prime Minister's talks? In addition to having to pay income tax on exit, the person's national pension is 4% lower, i.e. the person who withdraws the money is automatically at risk of poverty. Today, Minister of Finance Martin Helme appointed the draft amendment to the pension system submitted by the Socialists and Reform Party as a fine-tuning vote. Indeed, these proposals, which would increase the yield of pension funds, reduce the costs of governance, etc., were mentioned as fine-tuning. Wasn't that the original reason why the government union went into the second pillar pension system at all? And let me ask you, where were the government's proposals? Why are you only dealing with issues that would bring tax money to the state budget just before the local elections? Why have the concerns of those who have joined the second pension pillar and are not planning to leave it been forgotten? If we are dealing with fine-tuning, then really, the Fatherland, EKRE and the Centre Party will tune the Estonian state to a new wave of work immigration. You're forcing the whole country to live today, not to look to the future. I do not support the dismantling of the second pillar of pension. This is not fair to those who leave the second pillar, and it is not fair to those who continue to collect in the second pillar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U415	Thank you. Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U416	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, who are you here? All aspects have already been discussed quite thoroughly, and finding a few new corners is quite difficult, but I will try. It's just a year, to think about it, it's been one year, but everything's kind of different. The Reform Party is conducting meetings, we in this hall call them to order. But that's the policy for once. Even rhetoric is starting to look. Words such as 'crime', 'punishment', people are called fools, the coalition is threatened. But if the pharmacy chains are to be expropriated in a socialist way, it's not a crime, then it's okay. However, the opposition still has much to learn from the EKRE in organising demonstrations. For example, I discovered a false slogan at the meeting today, or at least it seemed strange to me: 'Hands away from my savings! " To whom was it directed? It seemed to me that it was directed not against the government, but against the opposition itself. Because who's doing the savings? All kinds of bankers, administrators, fund managers, those who maintain this asset. What about the pensioner's view? The latest information from TV3's survey this evening is that 80% of the respondents supported the reform of the second pillar, while 20% did not only support it. But today, ladies and gentlemen, we are not only voting on the second pillar, but we are voting on freedom, freedom to use our money and our property. It's either freedom or it just doesn't exist. Liberals and socialists would like to be reminded of the great French revolution. One important slogan began with the word 'freedom'. A person must be able to control his or her savings, not some bureaucrat or banker. And if there is no freedom in the country, no human freedom, then it is a slave state. Vote for bill 108 and for freedom! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U417	Thank you. Valdo Randpere, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U418	Ladies and gentlemen, Good President! I may be a little different from the previous speakers, because a lot of people have still been in this box, whether today's system is paradise and what is now being done here is hell, or vice versa. I see mistakes and advantages in both systems. I'd like to stop a little bit, try to be objective. What has brought us here today is also a lesson for all of us who have seen that there are minor or major errors in the current system, but we have not corrected them in time. If you don't fix the little mistakes in time, you're gonna have to be anonymous with a bulldozer who's sitting behind me right now, wrecking the whole system and saying it's a repair. But after that, there's nothing to fix. But if I try to be, as I said, objectively critical, the first criticism goes to the press's cabbage garden. Especially in private radio chat shows, an axiom has sounded a certain way of speaking, that the Nordic and Swedish pension systems are basically bankrupt or, at least, close to it, also in Finland. It's bullshit, it's such bullshit that... I can't imagine where this is coming from, and I can't imagine how to lie so badly and directly. However, we do have some differences between the Swedish and Finnish pension systems. One thing we have not talked about very much about in Estonia in the case of the second pillar is how much or, in fact, how little we collect there. If, for example, we compare ourselves with Sweden, we collect 6%, Sweden collects 16% plus 2.5%, which the country pays there so that the person can decide where he invests it. 18.5%, three times as much as we pay. And what are we hoping for? We're hoping for the same high pension as the Swedes. We can't have it, it's not possible. We're paying too little. As long as we don't get over it, we can't expect any big payout. Now take your calculators, I've done the math. If you collect 20 years of 6%, in 20 years, you basically collect two years' pay, no yield, just linearly. So if you assume you're gonna have to live after 20 years, you're gonna get half a month's salary a year, more or less. A little more, but since our insurance companies that make payments are raking up with a mortality table that is not based on Estonia, but is based on Great Britain and gives us a little more life time than we actually can, some money will be lost there too. So in reality, without any return, our payouts would be half a month's salary a year. Okay, let's assume 5% is yield every year. 20 years.. then payments are one month's salary per year. Is that a lot? In this regard, little to live and little to actually die. When we talk about this return that we have had little, we can also look at ourselves or the previous formations. The previous composition changed it yes, but until then, in fact, like a common investor, who still lies between greed and fear, the state was also inclined between greed and fear. And fear was greater than greed, because fear was due to the fact that at the moment we created the second pillar of pension, we had behind us economic crises, one bank crisis after another, and we dared not give any chance to make risky investments. Who does not risk, does not drink champagne, says the Estonian proverb. And the result is this. Again, we compare to Sweden. I looked at the strategy of a specific fund in Sweden (they have many pension funds). Up to the age of 60, they invest 100% in equity funds. From the age of 60, they start to reduce the share of shares and by the age of 80, the share of shares is 15%, the share of bonds is 85%. But we've had 100% basically bond investment funds. They don't yield anything, but they don't lose anything. What I don't like about the current system is the payout system. Not only do we get a little money out of it, we basically don't get it. The only way to get money out of another pension fund these days is to die. But the purpose and purpose of collecting pension system assets cannot be death. At the moment, as soon as you have signed a contract with the insurance company and received the first payment, this money is no longer bequeathable. As long as you don't touch it, it goes to your heirs, you can testamentize it, but you can't touch it yourself. It's also been a mistake. But all these things could actually have been changed without breaking the second pillar. It's not too late right now. I am not an optimist, I think today's vote will go exactly as it goes. There are people in the coalition who do not support this'reform' or 'demolition' in themselves, but neither do they support the disbanding of the government, because it is much worse in the opposition than in the coalition, I know. But actually, you could also do that right now, after you accept it, come back to this hall again with changes. Change a few things. First, payments are possible from the time you reach retirement age. Well, if somebody wants to lull in the first week of retirement and make money, it's a little softer than the fact that he's gonna knock that money out a long time ago, and there's no place he can get it. Second thing, an investment account. As long as there is no investment account, this law should not actually be enforced. It's a wheat scam, and I hope the Supreme Court will look at it too. To those who tell me this story instead, to listen, make better children, they are your actual pension pillar, I honestly say: I have not seen any children, neither mine nor anyone else, who, when you're young, would dream of mommy-daddy, when you get old, being poor, and I can take care of you. That's not what these old people want, either. Nobody wants his kids to change his diapers. I want to go to a retirement home, live there for my money, and not be a pain in the ass.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U419	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U420	Here you go! Today's bill actually makes me change that lifestyle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U421	Thank you. Oudekki Loone, please! It seems that a member of the Riigikogu of that name is currently not present in the Chamber. Let's keep going. Urve Tiidus, please! Yes, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U422	Good manager! I have seen that not only is Oudekki Loonet, but in fact the entire Group of the Central Party is not in the Chamber. Are they boycotting this debate or what it is? Can you find out, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U423	I can't answer that. I'm in the chair right now, but I have a proposal. You have a free chance to move, please, find out and inform me too! Let's move on to the agenda. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U424	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The current coalition has prioritised the promotion of a more coherent society. It's a great goal. Society is more coherent when ideals and practice approach rather than distance themselves from each other, as seems to happen now. One of the conditions of social cohesion is that those who have reached maturity are not left in trouble. Ideally, no one is left in trouble, and at the same time, they don't just rely on others. In order to better perceive reality, we need to know the broader context, even where we go in 30, 40, 50 years. Although the Minister on several occasions stated here that no one knows the future, and therefore there is no point in taking the forecasts very seriously, as many of them have proved to be mistaken, scientists in different countries are quite united that the world population is estimated to grow to 9 to 10 billion. Already, a fifth of the planet's inhabitants are over 60 years old. The rapid growth of the mature age group is striking in Estonia and throughout Europe. This trend continues. In this context, as well as analysing future process forecasters, it is this generation that we are obliged to join the second pillar and who is about to be released from this obligation in this Chamber today. Some of these suggestions. Spend less than you earn, save savings for emergency situations, avoid debt taking, save for retirement. Save it for retirement, that's why I read these recommendations, and that's why the pension reform was made in 2001. Sector experts say that the government's pension bill must meet two key issues. Firstly, how the abolition of compulsory funded pensions affects the amount of pensions today and in the future. Secondly, how the draft takes account of the ageing population. It is this second question that is particularly important. People with a high degree of generalisation in the financial and economic fields respond that demographic trends are ignored by this draft. The result is strong pressure to increase taxes and migration or to increase the retirement age and, in addition to retirement, health and care costs will also increase. This is about the current bill and it must not be ignored. However, all this debate in this House reflects the pattern of human behaviour very clearly. We're no different from the rest of the world. Psychology scientists have long been convinced that people have a tendency to overestimate potential positive results when there is a good mood or any other condition. Researchers also advise: in moments of optimism and pessimism, you must remember that emotions make thinking irrational, emotions must be left at the door when important decisions are made. That is why I say completely emotionally that demographic trends cannot be ignored. Speaking of science, our decisions are influenced, apart from emotional prejudices and partiality, and tends to favour ideas that confirm the beliefs and knowledge that have already been established themselves, and the information that does not confirm the understanding and viewpoint that we have in advance. For such bias, there is even a saying that it is an old-fashioned lawyer. Parliament cannot be an old-fashioned lawyer. It is Parliament's role to consider both sides and more views without prejudice and impartiality. We cannot get past the fact that the population is ageing, even if there are some clear signs that more children will be born. Demographic trends result in strong pressure to increase taxes and migration or to increase retirement age, and health and care costs are also increasing in addition to retirement. This is all about the effects of the current bill and it cannot be ignored. That's all the talker hasn't figured out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U425	Thank you. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U426	The second pension pillar is a crime against the Estonian people, and with this draft we will remedy this crime. What does the second pillar mean? That the state wipes its hands out of responsibility for the elderly and says that your future is guaranteed by capitalism and financial markets, we care nothing. Moreover, the state takes 4% of the social tax from today's pensioner's hat, the solidarity pillar, and gives it to the fund manager. The second pillar means spitting in the face of an ordinary employee and saying that your lifetime of work does not guarantee you well-being in your old age. You know, an employee deserves a pension as an employee. The state must not demand that all be forced to become a financial capitalist in order to guarantee a decent pension. It's basically unfair. Work has value. Without the effort of workers, without the skills of workers, nothing would be traded on the capital market either, because the value of money is guaranteed only by trust, only by trust in the ability of workers to create new value. Not to mention that we have the right to dignified ageing because we are residents of Estonia, we are people, not because of our position in the economy or capital markets. Article 28 of our Constitution confirms everyone's right to state support for old age and deprivation. State pension is our constitutional right, not the second pillar. Mandatory saving is also deeply contrary to the principle of freedom. The state obliges everyone to buy a product, saying, I know you need it, even if you don't understand it, I still know you need it. Just like the state would say one day, listen, you need a protein, everyone has to buy a sausage for a 2% salary. We understand that this would mean that the sausage producers would be very happy, but the quality of the sausage would certainly not improve. Pension funds today are exactly the kind of sausage that will be won by fund managers. The country's just giving them a present. In fact, I do not understand why reform parties, for whom the only correct solutions are freedom and market-based solutions, love some sort of totalitarian policy, where people's money is forced into someone else's hands. If you look at the arguments of the guardians of this pillar, it is also appropriate in some respects to totalitarianism that there are no arguments for justice, there are no political arguments. There are moral arguments that saving in itself is somehow good and people should be moral, people cannot decide for themselves how to use their money, maybe they allow themselves more rest or ice cream for children, or maybe they pay off some debt instead of giving money to the banks to spin. Seriously, go and tell one single parent who makes 583 euros a month that it is immoral that he wants to buy boots for his child today, never in a vague future, because the state simply does not want to guarantee him a pension. Why do people need this country at all if a dignified old age cannot be guaranteed? What justifies an Estonian country that does not pay pensions? If we support the second pillar of the pension, we actually say that the Estonian state has failed. By the time today's young people retire, financial markets may be at the worst in their history, there may not be financial markets at all, but the Estonian state is. And Estonia is the only structure in the world that protects the interests and well-being of the people of Estonia, our citizens, not the financial markets. Of course, our future is in a strong, secure, state-backed first pillar. And that's a tax increase? As long as only work and not capital are taxed in Estonia, you could keep your mouth full of water. When foreign banks receive gifts in the form of pension funds and then are allowed to take their profits out peacefully, it is not worth starting to scare us that we cannot. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U427	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U428	As long as we don't have corporate tax, what are we talking about? There is no point in spinning around here, this tax policy and the intimidation of raising taxes are just so hollow that it is visible to everyone. We come back to a just state that guarantees every person, every citizen a dignified old age, as our constitution says. We also need to ensure that the quality of life of a person does not fall compared to the time of work. This is our common interest, interest in humanity, interest in future security, interest in social stability. The only organisation that can make that promise is the state. Only we can defend our interests, and of course we can. It is the idea of an Estonian state that we protect our citizens, that we guarantee them well-being. And of course we will. Of course, we give each of our citizens the opportunity to look for happiness in the way they choose and to decide for themselves the costs that this person considers important at the moment. And, of course, the Estonian state has not failed; the Estonian state can guarantee its citizens a good, dignified and honest old age, including state pension. You know, all the people you are in this Chamber and who you are on this house today, this is a vote on the Estonian state. If you have confidence that the Estonian state will continue to take care of its old people in the future, you will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U429	Thank you. Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U430	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good listeners! I would like to talk about a few things that are spoken about right here in the corridors, because we are actually talking about today, among other things, for history. Members of the Riigikogu, regardless of political groups, ask where the Prime Minister is. Why did the Minister of Finance, not the Prime Minister, come here today with this extremely important draft concerning 774000 people in Estonia? The Minister of Finance responded very smoothly, friendlyly. Too bad I can't say those good words to him myself. In some ways, it is unexpected and perhaps rude that there is no Minister of Finance here at the moment. The Minister of Finance was wrong about the facts, but it happens. It's still a question of who's prime minister in whose government. The second question has also been touched gently in this Chamber today (i.e. we all try to be polite too). But I'd like to ask the architects of today's government. Before the elections, there are two tents side by side, both asking for two things. People are talking about whether homosexuals have the right to marry or not, and the second question that is being asked is whether you have already taken out your money. I have an application form here, they say in one tent, take your money out, and in another tent or in the third tent they say that you have the right to use your money freely, and maybe you also have responsibilities. We can imagine who will vote then or who will have a certain advantage. It is very cynical to lay down the personal financial benefits of this very important bill concerning the majority of the Estonian people before the elections (most of us here have participated in municipal elections), which is very cynical. I don't know how to save. My biggest savings are in the second pillar. In any case, I can manage even if I decide to withdraw money from the second pillar for some reason, but I am concerned that I am a person with my colleague Riina Sikkut who lives in, for example, Kiviõli, Kohtla-Järve or Viru-Nigula, whose biggest money is located in the second pillar, whose apartment and old car are worth less than the money in the second pillar. Now, if he takes out that money, what's he gonna end up in retirement? Let us not think about ourselves when we make today's decision because we are among the people in Estonia who can manage, but we also think about those who are weaker than us, perhaps even worse savers than I, for example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U431	Thank you. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U432	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, In the history of the Riigikogu over 100 years, there have probably been few draft laws that are as important and have such a long impact as today. I like a country that thinks ahead for a long time, even for a century, if necessary. I do not like the state, I do not like the government, which can only think from the perspective of the next elections, is no further. Ladies and gentlemen, today history is being made in this Chamber. Very bad history, unfortunately. With the votes of the government union, there will be a hundredth-century hog. It seems more and more that this second pillar dismantle has been drafted by an evil genius. How else is it possible for the Government of the Republic to decide instead of improving and improving the future-looking second pension pillar, to go on the path of fierce populism and to distribute the money collected over the years of the nation to people simply to spend. And that's just a couple of months before the next local election. It is clear that the majority of the poorer people take advantage of this opportunity. They hope that long - awaited riches will come. Humanly, that's perfectly understandable. However, the money collected is quickly spent. The government sometimes takes on income tax, VAT, rubbing its hand with joy and continuing to come to the budget. After the local elections, the party will be over and the day will come again. In turn, people start to retire, who, in the past, are no longer in the second pillar of the pension money collected. The result is an inadequate pension instead of a dignified old age, resulting in poverty and an increase in inequality in our society. And who's to blame? Of course, not these people themselves, but the government that is in power at the moment, but this is no longer today's government. If there is any good in all of this, it is that people are thinking more about their future pension. Even schoolchildren, whom I meet constantly in the Riigikogu, have started asking questions about pension issues. I have always advised them to start collecting pension money immediately when they go to work, based on my own personal experience. On the basis of all the figures, my future pension would be considerably lower if I had not joined the second pillar at the beginning of this century. However, today's crap is a decision at the expense of the future, of those young people today. Its entry into force means a greater tax burden on our children, that is, poverty, that is, social tensions in the future. The Minister of Finance stressed on several occasions today that all of this was not true because who could anticipate the future of us 30 or 40 years ago. Oh, for heaven's sake! The country cannot be ruled in such a way that there may be a flood after us. Helme's statement would be the same as saying that there is no point in us trying to preserve and develop the Estonian state, because who knows whether this Republic of Estonia will be on the map in 40 years' time. Also, as a convinced advocate of parliamentary democracy, I am very disturbed by the way the government is driving over the Riigikogu, forcing the draft law with great influence today. One of the authors of our constitution today, Liia Hänni, has said that the provision of a vote of confidence is in the Constitution in order to ensure that the government has the opportunity to implement its policy in a situation where an important law may fail in the Riigikogu for the government, then the government can make a choice for Parliament, whether you support the draft we have initiated or we resign. At present, however, the government wants to use the linking of the draft to the question of trust to get rid of the opposition's proposals. There is no valid reason why we should hurry with this important decision today. As there is no reason to attack the Chancellor of Justice, who fulfilled his constitutional duty and highlighted the weaknesses of the government's draft. Pressing a decision without thinking through hastily means arguing in one way or another at the Supreme Court in the very near future. However, there is still hope that this hog will not become a reality. Most of all, I'm surprised... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U433	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U434	... Prime Minister's behavior. Only in the autumn of 2018 did he speak firmly about the badness of the plan to dismantle the second pillar of the Fatherland. Today, he is willing to sacrifice the dignified old age of a very large number of people in order to remain in power. The smaller coalition partners will, of course, successfully exploit this weakness of the Prime Minister. It is awkward, however, that, in a situation where Parliament is discussing the issue of government confidence, the Prime Minister has not bothered even to be present in this honourable Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen of the EKRE, do you really want to bring a mass of migrant workers to Estonia to pay a decent pension in the future? Ladies and gentlemen of the Fatherland, do you really want our children to pay more, much more taxes to support us? Ladies and gentlemen of the Centre Party, are you really prepared to put many future pensioners into poverty in order to remain in power? Well, I'm not. I do not support this century piggyback, I do not support the dismantling of the second pillar, I do not support the continuation of today's government! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U435	Thank you. Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U436	President-in-Office of the Council. I'm asking for three more minutes right now!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U437	5 + 3 minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U438	Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, the ultraliberal views of the Minister of Finance warm the heart of the radical economic liberal. The Minister has said at the reading of pension reform laws that it is everyone's business how he secures himself to old age and collects money. The idea that the state should not be responsible at all for people's old age insurance was also discussed in the early days of the re-independence of Estonia. However, it was found that the society, which was very receptive to liberal ideas, was not ready for this, and the state could not leave the fortification of old people to God. 20 years ago, the Fatherland government was in power, which has rightly been considered to be quite innovative. The working group of this government developed a project for the Estonian pension system. The group included Lauri Leppik from the Ministry of Social Affairs, Veiko Tali from the Ministry of Finance, the Prime Minister's advisor Kersti Kaljulaid, the Minister of Social Affairs Eiki Nestor and the Minister of Finance Siim Kallas. Our aim was to create pension insurance in Estonia, which would be sustainable, which would not depend on political discouragement and which would be self-regulatoryly linked to economic growth. The most important request was to create pension insurance, in which people who have contributed more during the period of employment, received more pay, paid more social tax, would also receive more pensions. These objectives were best met by the idea of funded pensions, whereby part of the money collected for pensions was transferred to the private property of pensioners. The central issue in the dispute at the time was the need for a state pension, which was central to and is the Council's calculation of seniority, as well as the ratio of the income-appropriate and man-owned funded pension. The Liberal Wing Reform Party and the Fatherland wanted the funded pension to be larger and the national part smaller. The Socialists and the Centre Party that supported them on this matter had opposite views. In the final compromise, the liberal wing was down. The contribution to the pension was 6% of the social security contribution, or 23.7% of the statutory pension contribution, and 72.7% of the statutory pension contribution remained in the public pension pool. The liberal wing would have been happy to see this intercourse being the opposite. The system would consist of two parts: a politically defined part of a national pension based on a minimum subsistence allowance and a predominant part of a funded pension depending on the contribution to work, in particular on the earned salary. The ratio between state pension and funded pension and the short funded period is the main reason why today's pensioners have a small share of funded pension in the pension. As time goes on, the more important the second pillar would become and pension funds would also grow into important funders of Estonian entrepreneurship. They're part of it today. A small group of politicians today are carrying out their obsessions with skilled manipulation, against which there are all considerable expertise, and which was initially not supported by any coalition partner, ideas that affect hundreds of thousands of people. This idea reduces the responsibility of the state for people's old age insurance. The money is distributed, which was intended for old-age insurance in the future. In the future, the state will have to compensate politically for this at the expense of other needs. The Government Coalition has no mandate for the abolition of compulsory funded pension. The only thing that came up with this plan in the elections was Isamaa, which lost 18% of its voters, or 14,500, compared to the previous elections. Building on an opinion poll in which 60% of respondents seem to support the reform agenda is pure demagoguery. We could then ask people what to think about making social tax payments voluntary. I think 70-80% would probably respond positively. I wonder how only 60% of those interviewed were in favour of receiving distributed money. For investment intermediaries and crooks, the new system will create a real gold mine. In time, much of the second pillar's money has increased their wealth. The upcoming elections will be a bitter fight between those who promise an extraordinary pension rise on the one hand and those who want to spend money on other needs on roads, education, culture, etc. Exceptional pension increases, whether EUR 100 or EUR 7, will be one of the main elements of the electoral struggle and will be distributed equally to all. Thus, the original idea that people who contribute more to society will receive more pensions does not appear anywhere. In view of the increasing role of pensioners in our society and among voters, political pressure to spend on increasing pensions across the country can be a real risk. Finally, I ask: why does the government coalition not go ahead with the liberal ideas of the Minister of Finance and do not lose public pension insurance at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U439	Thank you. Helmen Hunter, please! 5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U440	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! Since it is difficult to say whether to laugh or to cry in a situation where the debate cannot be held, I would like to read to you first of all the second pillar agreement under the Estonian Express of 22 January, which, in my opinion, characterises today's situation better than any serious reasoning and arguments, because they will not be heard: 'Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Citizen. The Republic of Estonia and the Citizen agree that the Republic of Estonia, in Jüri Ratas, Helir-Valdor Seeder and Mart Helme, will hand over the money transferred to the citizen's second pillar account and the Citizen will accept the money. The money's the Citizen's. A citizen can do whatever he wants with money. A citizen may return to the second pillar if he has nothing better to do with his money. The citizen is allowed to remember in good words the second pillar's money in the ballot boxes. The citizen is allowed to show off on social media with the things he has bought with the money of the second pillar. The citizen is allowed to think that the remaining ones in the second pillar are stupid and to call them stupid. The citizen is allowed to mock the banks and show them the middle finger. ' I will now proceed by quoting what was said in a small letter under the treaty: 'The Republic of Estonia is not responsible for managing the citizen in old age. The citizen himself is wise and responsible for how he copes in his old age. The Republic of Estonia is not responsible if a citizen loses money by investing, spends money, gives money to fraudsters, spends it on fees or spends it in other ways. In old age, the citizen accepts the pension for which the state has the money. The citizen agrees with it without whining, whining, muddy, and grumbling. In old age, citizens do not express their dissatisfaction in public or in private by not having money and living hard. The citizen endures his poverty in silence. The citizen does not express his resentment for the economic difficulties in the ballot boxes, but he undertakes to continue to choose the Centre Party, the EKRE and the Fatherland. The citizen does not criticize Jüri Ratas, Helir-Valdor Seeder or Mart Helmet in his poverty. The citizen does not slander them, spit on their names, or defile their graves. When a citizen has material problems in his old age, he warms up his memory of how it was nice to spend second pillar money in his day. ' I'm not an expert on economics. As a social worker, I have had to deal with poverty and deprivation. These same problems with this bill are only getting worse. I always thought that spending would not be rich, it would make sense to think of old age at a time when you are young. I have heard a variety of questions today and the answers given to them both during Question Time by the Prime Minister and during the session by the Minister of Finance. I believe that, as time passes, the laws need to be reviewed, corrected and made more appropriate to time. This was done by the previous government and could also be done by today's government. There would be support for change in this Chamber, and there would be discussions on substantive principles. If the dwelling needs repair, it's not appropriate to tear down the apartment or the house, so we're gonna do either a sanitary repair or a overhaul. I believe that, in a situation where a country has outstanding major problems in the field of social and health care, where those who care about one's relatives are under inhumane care, we should hold parliamentary debates on these issues instead. Good fellows! It is not too late, yet we can look for a solution and make the law on funded pensions more effective than we really want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U441	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U442	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, there have been extremely critical comments on this draft in this Chamber, I would stress that even the extremely critical ones have been made. The pension reform is said to be a crime, vandalism, it is the beginning of the crisis, etc. I would not like to start semioticly dissecting the real meaning of these words here, because the end result would still be that the expression is as ugly as the opposition's criticism of pension reform. I do not want to go over the fact that the pension reform is on the right track, because it has been done repeatedly in this Chamber today. I would just like to dwell on a nuance that I think is extremely important. Suppose you have to go to the bank and borrow money for some purpose. My question to you is this: please tell me which bank is willing to lend you money without charging interest on it? I don't know a bank like that, and if you do, let me know. As we know, the purpose of the bank is to earn from the loan. In this case, however, more than 4 billion private money is at the disposal of investment funds, which use it essentially free of interest, because, at retirement age, the purchasing power of pension money has simply decreased and not just decreased, but decreased. Do you remember that long-time television commercial where a man like Andrus Veerpalu, who was on the southern islands, promised a vacation somewhere very exotic for his savings to pensioners? In fact, it is the same fairy tale as the high level of cross-country skiing in Estonia. It is clear that releasing the second pillar will reduce the possibility for investment funds to use the money they receive free of charge. Their lobby groups are working hard to prevent pension reform. In the light of the above, I have unfortunately had the impression personally that our good opposition politicians have also managed to implement the work of the lobby group instead of standing up for the interests of the Estonian people and Estonia. I cannot accept that an Estonian person is only fit to work and pay taxes and that he cannot walk around with his money. Are you suggesting that the development of the Estonian economy has been due to the foolish Estonians? Are you suggesting that the achievements of science we're proud of here have been made by stupid people? Are you suggesting that these new buildings, which appear to be coming into Tallinn and which are also rising every day in other parts of Estonia, have been done by foolish people? I don't believe it. And one more thing. If, after the second pension pillar has been released, the crisis begins, as the opposition politicians have said here today, unfortunately, this crisis can only begin for a few parties in one key or another. And one more thing before I finish. Having observed the meeting in front of the Riigikogu today, in which opposition politicians participated and played a key part, and this theatre today in the Riigikogu Hall, I would recommend that the opposition take lessons of assistance in behaviour and actions from the leading figures of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Martin and Mart Helme. I believe their words would be of benefit to you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U443	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U444	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There have been nice words and scary words. Mr Pevkur spoke about the fact that we are doctors and that the sick people are our patients. But we are not teledoctors like Vassilyev, who are not responsible for the recommendations they have given us, but we, doctors, are responsible for the consequences if we recommend one or another tablet or injection to patients. Mr Kruuse spoke beautifully about the apple blossoms that we will cut off tonight as an evil flower cutter, so that in autumn the apples will be lost. Such a beautiful metaphor that I had a tear in my eye. But there was also the intimidation that hunger would come and that the hordes of refugees would arrive here in case tonight ended the way it ends. So, you and I are all doctors. Ladies and gentlemen, doctors, family doctors of the people! I'm not a doctor, I'm the doctor's son and brother. But let's see how much we're actually responsible for the consequences of the pills and the injections that our patients have been given. I remember Jaak Aaviksoo's higher education reform. The aim was excellent, free learning, poorer boys can go to university and prepare the specialists they need. But what's it turned out to be? In fact, Nigerians and other fine third-country students came out. We got quickly transferred to English by study groups, and we pay them as a country. In fact, we're moving on to the specialists we don't need. So it was a failed thing, Doctors! Or another thing, an old pension reform. Remember? Every time I meet the voters, I've heard them ask, "When are you gonna stop the bullshit that you have to work three years to get one pension year?" It's been talked about until we get tired. About 70% are those who get a small salary and have to accept such a reality. The failed project, the respected doctors, the general practitioners of the people! We'll come to tonight, the diagnosis and the pill or the injection tonight. In 17 years, the normal pension, the first pillar, has grown about four times, I think, 3.8 times. But how much has the second pillar grown? It's a whisper-smith business. They've had EUR 5 billion or a little less, I'm not a finance man, but the order of magnitude is something like that, but nothing smart has come up. You could say it was a miscarriage, the wrong pill, the wrong shot. We should apologize to our patients by quoting Neivelt. You and I, ladies and gentlemen, doctors, are actually living in fat with this bill. The second pillar is for us. You and I will win, esteemed doctors, family doctors of the people, because we are among the 20% collectors with more than half of the pension fund assets. And the rest of the 80% of them belong to the other side. So we're the winners and we really shouldn't worry. We're not worried about ourselves. But actually, you should look at the other side, the 80% who have the same amount of pension in pension funds under the control and use of these whispersmiths. In fact, in the first few years, this victory from the second pillar is relatively small for ordinary people, EUR 10, some EUR 10,15 per month. But the result is 17 years of hard work. Later, this gap will decrease considerably and the state pension will increase. I said that in the first 17 years, it has grown nearly four times and will continue to grow. Ten years from now, if you believe the experts, the first pillar will be bigger than the first and the second pillar together. But actually, the people whose doctors we are, and we ourselves have big loans with us. And if one billion or less of the five billion pension funds that they spin as whisperers are consumer loans, in any case, five times less, then perhaps it would be better to pay off these loans now or at least reduce your burden and decide what to do with this money. I'm pretty sure a lot of people don't take it out. I think people like us here, I don't know, the poll hasn't been done, most of us don't take it out. So that's not really our problem. We doctors are thinking about how people should be. It seems to me that the pill that we are trying to give them today under this law would in any case be more useful, or the injection that we are trying to give them under this law. And I'm sure it's not a poison shot, as ladies and gentlemen here might think. Ladies and gentlemen, doctors, family doctors of the people! We should look more in the mirror and see what the real effect of our products or our pills and injections is. Good luck to you and to us, dear doctors, family doctors of the people!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U445	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We are all entitled to speak for up to eight minutes, but it is correct to ask for an additional three minutes if the call is longer than five minutes. Let's try to follow that rule. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U446	Ladies and gentlemen, Although the new decade has only just begun, the worst draft of this decade is likely to be discussed in this Chamber today. The government has bound the Riigikogu with its question of trust to the dismantling of the second pension pillar. This is probably the biggest political crime in Estonia's history that has restored its independence, since the major and structural reform that has been undertaken decades ago will be reversed without solving the problem for which the second pension pillar was brought into existence. I am genuinely disturbed and worried that today's government will destroy the future of many Estonians. When we look at the people who decide on the future of all Estonians, these are the leaders of the three departments of government, Jüri, Mart and Helir-Valdor, 55 years of age with an average age, or not far from the current retirement age. They will decide the fate of today's young people and future generations. The worst part is that even though they are doing this shit, they are unlikely to take responsibility for it, because the time wheel is more in their favor. Secondly, the mandate of the people has not been asked for this action. It is not the same as it was said before on this platform that more than one party has asked for it. Before the elections, there was only one party who received 11% support from the voters. What makes it even sadder is that we have a man in the Prime Minister's chair today, for whom breaking a word is not a problem, a man who spoke a year ago about how a compulsory funded pension is very important for our elderly people to have a dignified old age in the future. Now the same Prime Minister has abandoned his position and his values in order simply to maintain his position. Embarrassing, very embarrassing! The dismantling of the pension system fully ignores the objective of collecting social tax. One of the objectives of social tax is to ensure that older people have a decent income at retirement age. If today we allow people to take out the social tax they pay and do whatever they want, then it will certainly not meet the initial objective set by the state to receive a better pension today and in the future. I myself have grown up in Estonian society at a time when the situation of our elderly was very much compared with that of our northern neighbours, and it is certainly done today, so that the grandmothers and grandfathers there can enjoy their old age with travel and dignity, and how families were told that this could also be the future in Estonia. With compulsory funded pensions, we moved towards a more dignified old age in our society as well. After all, even as a grandson, I have thought that it would be nice if my grandparents could have spent their old age enjoying, traveling, and enjoying entertainment in Scandinavia. However, all these opportunities have arisen in the Nordic countries because people have accumulated savings during their working lives in order to increase their income, or pension, in old age. That's a fact, no matter what people say on the remote today. The third problem with the dismantling of the pension system is that the government is not prepared to listen to any proposals to make the system actually better. The substantive proposals of the opposition and the alternative draft were not heard at all. However, the government has achieved a new level by ignoring all professional organisations, not to mention Eesti Pank and even the Chancellor of Justice, who, by virtue of their obligation under the law, point to potential threats, concerns that could be caused by the failure of the system in the future. It should be recalled here that these risks will be either one third lower pensions, a higher tax increase or a massive introduction of migrant labour. And I think it would be fair for today's government to say what future they prefer to Estonia from these three. Throughout this government's term of office, the Prime Minister has tried to talk about a coherent society and values. But now let's talk about values. I say today's government doesn't have them. That's clear. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U447	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U448	There is talk of a coherent society and inclusion, but the reality is that people want to get their future savings if they want to overexploit themselves. Today's government doesn't care what happens to these people in the future. The state should encourage people's savings more than before, but the government's plan is to do the opposite by allowing people to make use of their pension savings today. The government is not motivated by the future of Estonia, but by simple greed, because all the money available has already left the state budget, as the government of Jüri Ratas has spent over a billion euros more in recent years. The dismantling of the pension pillar allows the government hundreds of millions of Estonian people to save money, which you can distribute to cover your promises. It is for this reason that the government does not regard as a matter of urgency any of the lawyers' complaints that the government's plan is unconstitutional. Shame fades, but the money stays. In the beginning, when more options were discussed, it is now known that even an investment account may not be completed, or it can be clearly seen that the government's priority is only to nail people's money. People must immediately pay 20% of the savings they have collected, and people's money will immediately be attracted to different creditors. So in the end, man has neither money nor a dignified future, and that seems to be the will of today's government. This is the message that I and many of my colleagues want to convey to the Estonian people in this Chamber. I would like all voters today and future to know who is responsible for this nonsense and to go down in history in black and white, how the government led by Jüri Ratas in 2020 destroyed the future of tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands, of Estonians for their own gain. In the future, coping with the elderly could have been much better so that our grandmothers and grandfathers could deal with their grandchildren and enjoy a dignified life. This is the future that today's government will take away from our people because of its stupidity and greed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U449	Thank you. Javier in clothing, please! 5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U450	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good public! Estonia has had very different governments over the last three decades, but they all have one common denominator: each government has contributed in its own way to building the future of Estonia, and several governments have also implemented important reforms, the positive impact of which dates back several decades. These reforms have not always been popular, even most of the time they have not been popular, but they have nevertheless been necessary. This has been the case so far, but unfortunately not anymore, because what we are witnessing here today is not a reform, it is not a construction. This is destruction, and as the former Governor of Eesti Pank said, it is vandalism, piece by piece, stone by stone, the foundation of Estonian society, breaking vandalism. Let's go through the main arguments we've heard here today. Dear members of the coalition, you say that by implementing this change, you will give people the opportunity to decide on their money. However, you fail to say the second part of the sentence: tempting you to consume what you have collected quickly for retirement. And, of course, we know that you are also hoping to alleviate the large deficit of the state budget a little with this, leaving the next generation of our children with a greater tax burden and, little of that, placing our entire generation very much on those who are tempted to give in to the great risk of poverty. Just as Mr Randpere and my colleague Erkki Keldo said, we will never be able to reach the level of a wealthy pensioner in the Scandinavian countries if we lose the opportunity to save for retirement, tempting people to spend money immediately. The second argument you have mentioned is that you want to give people the opportunity to invest themselves. But you are not saying that, in fact, this investment account, of which much has been said, has not yet been created by then. Not to mention how many people in Estonia now voluntarily invest, or how big a bite, one by one or ten, by buying shares, even by buying shares one hundred by one, if you want to pay fees in fact rob you of transactions. We cannot in any way agree with this argument, which also sounded here today, that this amendment has a mandate for the people and, if there is a mandate for the people, that, of course, foolishness can be carried out. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment does not have a mandate for the people. We checked that this party, the only party that allowed the change currently planned, received 11.4% of the votes in the elections. The current Prime Minister, the chairman of the second party in Estonia's popularity, made it clear before the elections that he did not support such a change. True, he said many things very clearly, and most of the things he said very clearly before the elections have actually proved to be exactly the opposite. However, there is no change in the mandate of the people with 11.4% votes. I do not agree if someone says that we have an agreement and we have a working atmosphere and that it is enough or that it replaces the actual mandate of the people. I am not entirely commenting on the arguments put forward by the coalition members, which showed contempt or superiority and called bankers, for example, whispersmiths. I believe that Estonian society can make an appropriate assessment of them without my comments. In my opinion, the speech chair of the Riigikogu is not suitable for this kind of speech. If we look at this process, it is not only content but also extremely bumpy and unsuccessful. In essence, no one was involved, the experts who publicly expressed their views were not taken into account and the views of the representatives of the constitutional institutions that drew attention to the Constitution were whistled. Perhaps there were no substantive or legal arguments. I repeat: it has been agreed, the atmosphere is working, and so it will. Now that we look at facts that are difficult to argue with, we can say with absolute certainty that in the future, all those who go along with the temptation to withdraw their money quickly from the second pillar will have their pensions reduced. That's a fact. It can also be said as a fact that investments in the Estonian economy are decreasing compared to the current situation, because the most illiquid funds are the ones that are the first to be put at risk in pension funds. The logic of pension funds forces them to invest more in international indices and less in the Tallinn stock exchange, for example, with a total volume of few billion, i.e. about 40% of the total amount of pension funds. Siim Kallas described here earlier the process of the creation of the second pillar, the process that can actually be called reform. He also described the Fatherland at that time, and I would say that the Fatherland at that time was in many ways different from the present. We don't recognize this Fatherland much longer. I think there is something to think about, both all the Members of the Fatherland and all their voters, because I do not believe that the Fatherland, who was in the process of creating the second pillar of the pension, would have approved the immediate spending of the pension money, which would rather act as a heating house with furniture than as a structural reform. Good members of the government union! I have one more thing for all of you, a very personal thing for everyone! After all, most of you were not really involved in this government union agreement. It was made by the leaders of your parties. Yes, you signed it, but today, when you press this button, it is not the leaders of your parties that have responsibility, but each and every one of you. That is your responsibility to your generation, that is your responsibility to all the voters, and, most importantly, that is your responsibility to all our children. This change has a negative impact on all of them, so think about the conscience you are pressing this button with today. This button won't press for you no Helme, no Wheel, no Seeder. Each of you will press this button itself and everyone will also be responsible for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U451	Thank you. Valdo Randpere, is it a procedural question? A microphone for Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U452	Unfortunately, not procedural, but since my name was mentioned during the negotiations, I would like to make a small correction in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U453	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U454	I gave a speech before here, and I pointed out three major shortcomings in the current system. I'd like to repeat them. In my opinion, if it were to change the fact that joining the second pillar is not voluntary, that disbursements from this second pillar would start as a result of reaching retirement age and that the investment account would be ready by the same time the law enters into force, then we could talk further. And in the meantime, Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Monetary Affairs Committee, came to me and promised me a hand on all sorts of things that until there was no investment account, this law would not work, or vice versa, he promised that there would be an investment account. If that's the case, my heart is a little calmer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U455	Thank you. We will proceed with the speeches. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U456	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, We've been talking about a lot of money today. One could say, however, that we do not have too much reason to be proud of this law that is currently in force, and it would still be hypocritical if we said that it did not need to be overhauled. But I'm not going to argue with you here because, in fact, this law is quite thick and it won't be possible to discuss it here in eight minutes alone. I will bring to you only one aspect that we have not yet touched in this Chamber and which, in fact, looks ahead for decades. At the end of August, a letter came from your mailbox, in which people worried about the environment wrote that today's pension funds do not invest in companies that take into account the natural environment and climate change, i.e. that this money is being raised at the expense of both the climate and our natural environment. There is, in fact, a solution to this issue here in today's reform. Really, an investment account was already touched here once. This account provides an opportunity for all of us to invest in precisely what we want to do. And I already anticipate the fear that perhaps not everyone will be able to invest, in fact, the self-regulation mechanism forces banks too. If they know that people who are unhappy can leave freely, banks will also have to change their investment policy. This actually means that in decades' time, our natural environment will be much better preserved than it could have been without pension suffering. I dare say for sure, actually, don't worry too much. Today's system doesn't bring luck to our yard. I am quite convinced that if we have a greater chance of self-regulation, we will also have a greater responsibility, and then these pensions will be higher than if there is today's law. So I encourage everyone, including opposition politicians, to press the green button. Yeah, the green button, the one that's connected to the natural environment. Press the green button with a calm heart, and our lives will get better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U457	Thank you. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U458	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, To continue with the previous speaker, the green button is pressed at the right time and in the right place. But no one can yet tell what the danger of dismantling the second pension pillar will result, for the government has not bothered to carry out any more thorough analysis, but has rushed to redeem the election promise of the Fatherland. Those who would like to withdraw money from the second pillar as soon as possible, or use freedom to save themselves for the future, will be punished several times. As a result of income tax, they immediately lose 20% of the funded pension money, lose their annual income tax credit of EUR 6000 and also give the State contributions to social tax for at least the next 10 years from their future funded pension fund. Of the gross wage of the employed person to 2%, the state has added 4% of its social tax. At the turn of the century, the introduction of funded pensions was based on the fact that public pensions will dry up by a third in the future due to a shortage of taxpayers. Population ageing, in just a few decades, the ratio of workers to pensioners will fall from 2 to 1.3 today. Demographic processes are not wrong, and it is feared that in the future, it will be the young families who will be the biggest scapegoats to lay their necks on today's fools. They must bear the increasing burden of maintaining the state alongside raising their children. But somewhere, there's a tolerance limit. Already, about 4% of old-age pensioners receive income support. However, if the government maintains its pension plans, the proportion of the elderly living in poverty is feared to increase several times. Again, there is reason to ask: should those leaving the second pillar also be given a statement that they will give up social assistance in the future? However, our constitution states that society must ensure a minimum of dignity for every person. The expectation that a smaller generation of workers will pay for a previous, larger generation pension has failed in advance. This has been understood by almost all European countries that have developed their pension schemes. In the Estonian pension system, the share of the collection is obviously small compared to the developed countries today. So instead of breaking the second pillar, we should find ways to put more aside for retirement. An example is the draft occupational pension submitted to the Social Democrats Riigikogu. There are other options, even the massive introduction of migrant labour. And here, in particular, I have a question for the politicians of the EKRE and the Fatherland: is this what the current government wants? Critics have spoken the most about the current low productivity of pension funds. It is true that it could have been bigger, but it has not been said that in countries with short collection periods, the money upholstery is still too thin to thrive. In addition, the state initially imposed too severe investment restrictions on pension funds, which have been mitigated to date, and the economic crisis also had an impact. In Hungary and Poland, the system began to be demolished and fortified by populist governments themselves. However, in Finland and Sweden, where the pattern of pension collection is longer, the labour force and demographic indicators have been well-managed and taken into account. It can be said that our pension system has just reached maturity, which, if collected consistently and paid, would help workers to be ready for retirement. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U459	Three minutes extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U460	But a person is once thinking of today rather than coming. So, like Arno Tali in Andrus Kivirähk's vision, we are discussing: rather than taking money out of the pillar and sticking it in the willow cavity, as far as possible? But the rats, of course, took the cabbage iron away, and inflation was a stronger figure. How, then, can we minimize the damage to our retirement? The short answer is that the pension system must be made so flexible and attractive that as few of us as possible would be tempted to spread the collected money or place it in the willow cavity. The Social Democrats have proposed here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu that, in the event of permanent incapacity for work or serious health problems, a person must be able to withdraw from the second pillar at once before retirement age or to start pension payments. However, when a person reaches retirement age, the upper limit must be abolished from the amount he receives at the same time. At present, this rate is ten times the national pension rate, i.e. 2052 euros. Consideration should be given to reducing pension fund management fees and the possibility for the pension collector to contribute 3 to 4% of the salary to the second pillar, as well as to how to increase the pension balance of retirement age even if it is already paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U461	Thank you. Mikhail Lotman, 5 + 3 minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U462	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! What did we hear today? We heard about the evil genius, then we heard about the biggest crime of the century, vandalism, swineshit, destruction, destruction of Estonia, and not just the dismantling of the pension system. On the other hand, we heard beautiful images of sports and apple trees. Before World War II, English writer and publicist George Orwell analyzed when politicians were using such rhetoric, and his answer was quite clear: when they wanted to hide something. What do they want to hide? The basic thing, and there are two sides to this thing, is that the second pillar, in its current form, somehow helps to ensure dignified old age. That's not true. Our excellent colleague, Andres Sutt, gave an example of two pensioners, one of whom receives a pension only from the first pillar, while the other, who also has the second pillar, receives EUR 35 more. Indeed, it is a lot of money for pensioners. I made a certain estimate, and I looked at how much it would grow in some 35 to 40 years, under optimal conditions. This number remains two-digit, not to mention that prices and inflation make the value of this money lower. I don't think that's gonna guarantee a dignified old age. The other part is that if we overestimate the importance of the second pillar, the Estonian state will not collapse. It doesn't even collapse the pension system. People aren't gonna be any more poor than they are now. The standard of living of people, including pensioners, depends on the wealth of society. Where there is a freer economy and where people have more initiative, there are also greater preconditions for economic growth. I do not want to say that we are making something significantly better with this law, but it is certainly a small step in the right direction. In addition to these metaphors, we have been greatly intimidated: hundreds of thousands of migrants will be brought here, probably from Black Africa, who will fill this demographic hole. I mean, these are two completely different things. The demographic situation in Estonia is very serious, but it does not depend on the second pension pillar. Demography has to be dealt with when we're dealing with demography, but right now we're talking about the pension pillar. What do poor people do when there is an economic crisis? Well, I know what they're doing. Economic crises are not only in the future; the economic crisis was also in 2008. And in 2009, the Reform Party government stopped making payments to the second pillar. If we are now saying that it breaks trust in the state, I think that the Estonian taxpayers will still remember this time, and I, as a person who joined the second pillar, was seriously disappointed in the country. The second pillar was restored in 2011 and the country generously made promises to those who remained there. I, too, was and am a supporter of the second pillar. I've joined this pillar and I'm not going to leave it, but I don't want it to be a forced situation. The second pillar must be voluntary, just like joining it. And what was promised? People who remained in the Pillar were allowed to increase their contributions to 3%. I was very happy and went to the bank to increase to 3%. I can't. Why? Too old. If we hear about equal treatment here right now, I'm asking you, when did it start to be broken? Wasn't it in 2001, when some were allowed to join, others were allowed to join, but the others were forced to join? So where was equal treatment? As for the predictions we all love to make, I would like to recall the prediction of one outstanding economist, Nobel Prize winner, the favourite left-wing Paul Krugman. If the election was won by President Donald Trump, the next day the stock exchanges fell and Krugman wrote on Twitter: "When will these stock exchanges be restored? I predict never. ' We know that President Trump's reign has been one of the most historically successful for the stock markets. What did Krugman do after that? Did he say I was wrong? No, now he says that next time Trump wins the election, that's when the economic disaster comes. But right now he's working on protecting the environment and other disaster scenarios. Yesterday, two excellent lawyers wrote how everything in this bill was wrong and gave an example of a person who has EUR 28,000 in the second pillar and who gets sick. His treatment costs EUR 15,000, but he has to take out all 28,000, and what does he do with the EUR 13,000? A very sad story, but it wouldn't be a bill if we didn't accept it, he wouldn't be able to withdraw any money at all. What I'm trying to say is that there are also bigger accidents than the fact that a person is left with EUR 13,000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U463	Thank you. Yoko Alender, please! I'm sorry! Andres Sutt, you have the right to reply, your name has been mentioned. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U464	Thank you. Dear colleague Mikhail Lotman! It is true that I wrote an article that illustrated two people: a pleasant couple, a woman joined the second pillar, and a man did not listen to her good counsel and did not join. The result? The woman's pension was 35 euros a month higher. I think that if you asked anyone if they would be willing to get 35 euros more per month, I think people would say yes, they would be willing to get 35 euros more. And the small thing is that 35 euros happens to be five times more than a 7-euro extraordinary pension increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U465	Thank you. Mikhail Lotman, is there a procedural question? The Rules of Procedure say that if someone is mentioned during negotiations in the remote control, he has the right to reply. Mutually, you can send messages between the benches outside the hearing. Let's continue. Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U466	Thank you. Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, who are in the Chamber, who will listen and look at us here in your office! Good people who listen to us somewhere else! There must be some interesting and very important listening here today. There has been a lot of talk about finance here, a lot of talk about the future. I still have more questions than answers. I don't think I'm a finance specialist, but I trust those I've heard. That is why I am deeply concerned and I want to talk a little bit about values. What really are the values on which we rely when we draw up such a draft? I've asked myself that, too. Since my values obviously include openness as one of the main things, as a rule I look at all the changes, everything that is new, with great interest. I am sure that freedom is also important; it is one of the values that have been highlighted several times here by the supporters of the bill. Unfortunately, today's discussion has also shown that the freedom offered to us is seemingly apparent. And freedom is always accompanied by responsibility. In today's demonstration, people spoke of the following. One person who spoke said that society was not yet mature enough to defend its right to retirement. Perhaps he was right, perhaps we would have really hoped that there would be hundreds of thousands at the demonstration who would defend their rights. I myself believe that perhaps coming to the streets is not really the nature of Estonians. Nevertheless, we gathered on this street and one citizen said that this is a sad day for Estonian politics. He asked us why we should do this, where representatives of the people do not listen to specialists, even if they cut the bill into four, in the light of their narrow interests, which has been called the worst bill in Estonia so far, to trust them. Another citizen in front of the house also said that you must not defraud people's trust in this way. After all, today we are also standing here asking ourselves if we trust this government. At least before the elections, the Fatherland and the EKRE said that these were the things they wanted to carry out. The Fatherland and how they have been the creators of this pension system were already spoken here by others who know history better. But what about the Centre Party and Jüri Ratas, who will give his word and who will take their word for him who will listen to him? I am very sorry that we have such a Prime Minister and such a Prime Minister's party. I'm not going to repeat his opinions on the pension system here. But now from a cohesive society, because it is a value that is a common part of this coalition. A united society. This has been repeated many times by the Prime Minister on this remote. I think that this is the leverage effect of doing together, the mutually supportive effect of solidarity, if you like. Nobody gets left behind. Together, we will do what each individual can do with only superhuman effort. However, we cannot talk about this in this draft. A colleague told me that I do not want to say 'ultra-conservative', but the notion of 'right-wing extreme' is that everyone should see for themselves how they can, everyone is the blacksmith of their own misfortune. It really seems to me that maybe this is the value that many here today support this bill. Richer richer, poorer poorer! Now also, why do I even think that these values should be based on them? Today we have heard more of such a linear view... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U467	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U468	This bill has been like a master class to move from election to election. In the run-up to the previous elections of the Riigikogu, the Fatherland took it as its basic promise. There were not many votes for the promises, because what are these promises going to cost, especially in view of how the Prime Minister has treated his promises, for example, today. Now cash is allowed. The Minister of Finance used the month's name 'September' during the introduction of the month to my reading nine or ten times. A month before the local elections, you can withdraw your money, take out your savings and crush it if you want. Freedom! From there on, in the run-up to the next Riigikogu elections, this revenue will reach the state budget, which the state will take away from the people in order to increase its budget and try to buy something else for it. A person whose only chance of saving life has so far been collecting for old age and who sees for the first time more money in front of him than ever before, his obligations and dreams today may even lure them out and smash them, I understand. It's weakness, but it's human and understandable. I believe we've all been in a moment like this. But the head of state, who dismantles what has been believed in together, what has been built together, and which gives me the hope that tomorrow will be safer and better, is difficult for me to understand. Breaking up the pension system makes the rich richer and the poor poor poorer; it is not a step towards a more cohesive society. Members of the coalition, what values do you rely on when you make that decision? Are these real values in your own heart? If so, there is no way to condemn you, if not, I will work hard not to judge you. We are all affected by how and on what basis we decide today whether we are in favour of the pension system as a better common future or in favour of breaking it down. Let us not give up on the better future of the Estonian people! We still believe that even though we are few, we are strong together and we will last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U469	Thank you. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U470	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Good ambassadors! I'd like to remember again. In fact, no one ever doubted the necessity of the second pension pillar, not even the members of the Riigikogu at the time. However, there were completely different views on the second pillar financing scheme. The 20% social security contribution was intended for pensions from the outset. This principle was established already in 1991 and this money went there, it was based on so-called solidarity. However, in 2001 the law on funded pensions was adopted, i.e. the second pillar was created, and the Social Tax Act stated that 4% of the 20% share of the social tax would be taken away and transferred to the fund for funded pensions. The power was then held by Mart Laar's tribal alliance, in addition to Fatherland, the Social Democrats and the Reform Party were also in power. Eiki Nestor as Minister of Social Affairs and Siim Kallas as Minister of Finance were the main carriers of these topics. I would like to stress, and it was very, very important, that the authorities at that time confirmed here in front of the hall, and it was obvious and self-evident to everyone that the missing part of the social tax, or 4%, would be covered by the State from other funds rather than taken away from the pensioners at the time, i.e. the money for pensions. As this will be the case, Siim Kallas, the Minister of Finance and the coalition's leading politician, confirmed the funded pension law during the discussion on 9 May 2001 and 14 June 2001. These verbatim reports are still in place and these statements have been recalled for years and have been read repeatedly in this Chamber. I guess it didn't take a week, sometimes a day, if Siiri Oviir hadn't reminded me again and again that it has been said very firmly that money should not be taken away from one pillar into the other pillar, or that pensions should not increase less. But it didn't. The largest opposition force at the time, the Central Party, has already said, as has been said in this Chamber today, that we thought all the options for funded pensions were bad, and we voted against. And we've been holding the same view all these years, it's not a new position. Indeed, in the mid-1990s, the World Bank and the US Development Assistance Agency recommended a three-pillar system for their main target group, so-called developing countries and post-communist countries. At the same time, when we started implementing it, this system had already failed in many countries and was no longer recommended by the World Bank. Even then, Joseph Stiglitz, then chief economist of the World Bank, later Nobel laureate, criticised the three-pillar system very strongly and stressed that the pillar system did not increase savings. It also argued that private fund revenues go largely to fund managers and that administration costs are too high. And so it has actually gone, as we can see. So we applied a failed law elsewhere and lied to the people that a carefree childhood was to come. It is only now that we begin to understand the tragic mistake, almost 20 years later. In fact, it can be said that pensioners have been deceived for years, that their pensions have been smaller for years due to the withdrawal of this money. And I am really saying that we are now giving this money back, even in part, to those pensioners. Let's make it right, our pensioners are really poor. But if you wish, continue in the second pillar. If you want money taken from your mother, father or grandmother to be used to raise your future pension pillar, then go ahead. I think it's very, very selfish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U471	Thank you. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U472	I'll ask for more time in case you need it. Maybe I can go faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U473	Sure, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U474	Thank you very much to the President of the sitting. First of all, I call on you not to upset the Minister for Finance that he is not in this Chamber to listen to the debate on this draft. I think that as an EKRE politician, he certainly has important responsibilities. Perhaps he is currently directing a group of Blue Awakening commentators or writing the headlines of the New News Portal tomorrow. These are very important tasks, and let's not upset him. I did not really intend to speak at first, but I listened with interest to what colleagues were saying in the Chamber. The speeches made by some good colleagues have, in my opinion, been very hard on Estonian business, and in the interests of the verbatim report, I have some things to say here. I understand that the great guilt and sin of the Reform Party and the Social Democrats of good colleagues is that we defend the interests of the banks. Let me protect the interests of the banks. You see, personally, I would very much like to defend the interests of all the enterprising people in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, the interests of all those people who create value, who create companies that work in the private sector and without whom we would not really be able to discuss, for example, the state budget of the current or next year, because the euros that they have not earned cannot be spent either. So I want to give them every credit! I find it incredible that there are people here who, with such indiscriminate words, stir up hatred for the financial sector. This is a very important part of the Estonian economy. How would you imagine an economy today without a strong banking sector? How would that work? Do you, those of you who are so critical of the banks today, so bloody, keep your money in the mattress? Come on! Ladies and gentlemen, please do not bring any more car leasing checks into the accounts, because banks also make profits on car leasing. Very bad, very unethical! The financial sector ensures the possibility of settling between businesses and private individuals. This is a very important employer in Estonia, where wages are paid very well and tax money is paid to the state budget very properly. I had an interesting question: if we had not given the management of the funds to the financial sector, who would we give it to? Would we set up a public pension fund company with a board of directors where investment is so perceived, so well understood by politicians? Yeah? Or would we have a pension fund management agency? Then we should build a third tower for the super ministry to accommodate the new agency secretariat somehow. As far as bankers are concerned, I think that they have acted in exactly the frame that ladies and gentlemen's politicians have written to them. I think there are a lot of things that can be blamed on banks, of course, for everyone, but I wouldn't blame the banks for one thing, and that's making a profit. You know, especially perhaps the lovely members of the Fatherland and the EKRE here, profit making is quite a common practice in market economy societies. If you do, you will see that this happens elsewhere than in Estonia. Honestly! There have been those who make profits elsewhere, and nothing bad has happened. As far as employees in the financial sector are concerned, I think that most of them do much more work than the average member of the Riigikogu. I think that most of the leaders of the financial sector have learned a lot more in life and had to work hard to get to where they are today. I don't know, maybe some of the tellers in the financial sector have worked harder and worked harder to get to where he is today than maybe some people in politics. No matter how you vote today, this is your personal question, but I think it is our duty to stand up for the Estonian economy to develop, the economy to grow and our competitiveness to grow. This is very important because without it there will be no improvement in people's living standards, no income growth, no higher pensions, no higher benefits, no better public services, including health services. That's not possible. So let's not attack Estonian entrepreneurs, Estonian economy and people working for the Estonian economy anymore, please! Look, we're making calls here right now, but they have to go to work tomorrow. Thank you all for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U475	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U476	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with all those previous speakers who call today's draft law a crime, vandalism or just the worst law this year or probably at all during its membership. What is happening is not a reform because the second pillar system was created as a supplementary funded pension. It was supposed to support the state pension collected in the first pillar. The purpose of the first and second pillars was to work as a system aimed at and intended to ensure the well-being and well-being of old age, and disbursements should generally take place in retirement, in old age as a pension. This is what I joined the second pillar voluntarily in 2002 in the hope that, as a result of the collective collection of society and compound interest, a decent amount would be raised there for retirement. I still hope so. Now this pillar will be opened, the applicants will be allowed to withdraw money from it, and the costs will be borne by those who remain. In other words, the situation of those who wish to continue collecting will be exacerbated. It's not a reform, it's a break. In addition to what many previous speakers have said, I would like to make a few points. First of all, principle is essential in the collective action of society as a whole, and in the interests of society itself, it could be said that the objectives set out in the preamble of the Constitution are to be maintained. I'm talking here, for example, about military service or health care arrangements or, more easily, traffic management. These are places where, in the interests of the well-being of society, quite a few restrictions are justified as a breach of the Constitution. And these include pension arrangements. Secondly, the capital raised in the pension pillar needs time to grow. The period of self-realization is usually 45 years throughout the life cycle. This is a long enough time for small contributions to start working with compound interest and to grow into larger capital. But now, with less than half of the time being allowed to withdraw the capital collected, this means additional temptations to real life, I use the Minister's own expression here to realise the possibilities, but also the possibilities to fulfil the obligations. And these wishes are sometimes insane. One thing is if it were everyone's own concern, but it remains society's concern, the concern of everyone else, who will have to support most of these cash withdrawals later, by means of a growing tax burden, by the way. The voluntaryisation of the pillar is not justified by past omissions, the organisation of funded pensions or the greed of fund managers when charging management fees. We've got them regulated and we can see that it's working. We can drive if we want. There is no justification for investment accounts or investment by people themselves. The current number of voluntary investors in the third pillar is low; we can see that people are not funny about it themselves. Here earlier, this bill was compared with the release of peasants from coercion a few hundred years ago. I'd like to make a comparison. This bill is comparable to getting a growing child to work. The child is about twelve, hasn't grown up yet, doesn't have the right strength, doesn't even have an education, but he's already got to start implementing the family budget. We forget that as a fully-fledged adult, he could feed society much more effectively. Now out of the various constitutional clashes that the Chancellor of Justice has pointed out. These require compelling reasoning. I'd like to ask for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U477	The speaker gets three minutes of extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U478	These require compelling reasoning. There are justifications for compulsory military service and health care arrangements. They are also available for the purpose of the pension system: to ensure the well-being of members of society in old age. To break the second pillar, however, I have not heard any good reasoning so far. They are not, because the minister also stubbornly claimed that there was no constitutional breach here. After all, it is easy not to see a problem where the problem cannot be solved. But, for example, my colleague, Toomas Kivimägi, brought out an important barricade as a personal experience earlier. As a person who knows a little bit of sport, I can make another comparison of what is happening today. What is happening today can be called a taper, which is being made from the surface of insufficient basic training. It provides a short - term effect that can even lead to one marathon. In the long run, however, it will end badly. Just as it is now expected that the short-term economy will be boosted and later squealed, because there will be no substitution for the capital played out, and the collection will start at zero in both cases. In conclusion, we still have a three-pillar pension system at the moment. The first pillar provides essential comfort and well-being and the third one would create more opportunities. So you shouldn't force a child to work until you grow up. Let him grow and lead him in the right direction, let us not take the last of him. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U479	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U480	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I am not a pension expert or a financial expert, but the heart is still concerned when I think about our demographics and those people who get the average salary or under it. Much of the debate on pensions that has been held in recent months is based on the belief, or faith, of the initiators. Faith, in turn, relates to personal values and attitudes, without which it is impossible to be human. However, it is not responsible to base important political decisions that will affect the lives of a large number of people over the next decades on faith alone. Such decisions must be based on knowledge, expert assessments and impact assessments. As far as knowledge is concerned, I have received the answer that there is no calculation of the cost of the future of society, as has been said by both the Minister of Finance and the officials of the Ministry of Finance. Expert assessments are ignored and even impact analyses, which have been carried out and presented in the Ministry of Finance's own explanatory memorandum, are not believed. The Savings Pensions Act was adopted with the aim of laying down the conditions and procedures for the payment of pensions in order to provide people with additional income in addition to public pension insurance at retirement age. § 28 of the Constitution provides for the right of everyone to state aid in the event of old age, incapacity for work, survivors and deprivation. The Constitution does not answer how many euros per month the amount of State aid must be, so it is understandable that there is a viable retirement age in the interests of society as a whole, who should not rely on the maintenance of children or the state. The legal framework is the tool in which the state can influence the behaviour of individuals in this case to save for retirement. The Savings Pensions Act has an important role to play in creating an environment that helps to ensure adequate income and economic independence from both children and the country during retirement. The voluntary holding of the second pillar provides an opportunity to refrain from collecting for the future, which according to experts is expected to reduce income at retirement age. According to the explanatory memorandum, the sole purpose of the draft is to make compulsory funded pensions optional. The rest of the same, rather short section of the explanatory memorandum is again a question of faith, describing assumptions rather than the facts based on analysis: making the second pillar optional would increase people's freedom and raise awareness of the pension system. It's an explanatory statement. In addition, investment opportunities are expanding and competition is increasing. The result of the fund managers must make more effort to keep their customers safe. And when all this has happened, pension funds' return is expected to improve, which will in future ensure a higher pension. At the inclusion event on 16 January, the legal offices disagreed on the purpose of the draft, but it is the consideration of the provisions on the purpose of the draft that answers the question of the extent of the constitutional interference and answers the question of whether the interference is proportionate and purposeful. In other words, if the aim of the draft is to make the second pillar optional, rather than to provide additional retirement income, i.e. to increase income, then it is indeed considered to be an obstacle to the wrong target. In the existing system, a working person, through the payment of social tax, provides the elderly with the following: first pillar pensions, health care services and social services. In 2040, however, for every 100 people of working age, there are 47 retired. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U481	The speaker gets three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U482	With dependent children, there are 70 dependants per 100 persons of working age. Today, private individuals pay 79% for general care. That's 53 million. If the pension replacement rate is 40%, it is too much for the elderly and the actual payer is the maintenance child or grandchild. The latter, however, have a duty to support their own children and thus cannot secure their retirement. This situation does not add much to intergenerational cohesion. The final report of the Task Force on Reducing the Maintenance Burdens carried out at the State Chancellery since 2017 explains: 'The World Bank estimates that in order to minimise the current organisation of long-term care, it is necessary to add 0.2% of GDP to the system, i.e. at least EUR 40 million per year, to which one-off investments for the renewal and development of different parts of the system may be added. ' The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs have jointly calculated that today's need for long - term care is as much as 160 million. During the draft procedure, I have asked both the Minister of Finance and his officials whether calculations have been made as to the impact of this draft and declining pensions on long-term long-term costs for society as a whole. The answer has been laconical: not done. All of this affects the livelihood of the elderly, working age and children and, above all, intergenerational relations. Pressure on working age and labour payments is increasing, pressure on public and local government budgets is also increasing. Where is the government leader's promise of increasing intergenerational cohesion, caring for the well-being of the population? Good ambassadors! Let us slow down, let us take the time to look the risks of the bill into the eye to mitigate them. The Estonian person deserves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U483	Maris Lauri, please! You can have three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U484	Ladies and gentlemen, Many times have been asked today, as has been said in the past, what is the purpose of this law? What problems will this address? When this idea first came out, it was said how pension funds work badly and that changes are needed. Now it's almost over, but not completely. It makes perfect sense, too, because it finally came to pass that changes to the law that would improve the functioning of pension funds have already been adopted during the previous Riigikogu and have been put to work since September. So what is it? Let's loosen it up. This may be a perfectly legal and legitimate purpose, but why make these things more free? What's the purpose? These questions have also been asked today in this Chamber and, since good answers have not been given and the reasons have been poor, I, for example, tried to understand that I asked the Minister what his ideal was or where he wanted to be. Perhaps I imagine a little naive that we have come here to the Riigikogu to implement our political ideals, our vision of society. The minister couldn't tell us what he was thinking. He didn't know where they were going. All he could talk about was that we didn't know what would happen in the future. I do not know whether our ministers do not have a vision of the future, or whether there is a problem in the government, or whether there is a problem in the party on whose behalf the Minister spoke. I have the question that what is then in the Riigikogu, which is in the government, if there are no ideas for which to act, if there is no idea of where to go. Just to be in power? Looks that way. So for me, this bill is not justified, it is not argued. And it has not been argued yet in one very important aspect that has been repeatedly mentioned. It is a question of whether this bill is constitutional in everything. Six opinions on constitutionality have been submitted. The coalition only speaks of one thing, but in order to be clearer and to understand it, it must be recalled that this one opinion, on which the coalition relies and which has been made at the request of the Ministry of Justice, is very clearly worded in such a way that this analysis analyses another specific assessment. He does not analyse other possible aspects, he does not analyse a number of other things, including the time between the adoption and enforcement of the law, the processes involved in the adoption of the law, etc. So this opinion, on which the coalition relies, is very clearly ordered and directed. It's not comprehensive. I may not want to talk about these other analyses, but only one, and this is remarkable. This is an opinion prepared by the Ministry of Finance. Nevertheless, the Minister of Finance does not want to talk about this at all. Why? Because a lot of questions have been raised here. Some questions have been estimated that problems may be bigger, others may be smaller, in some cases they may be quite small. But I would like to read out very briefly what is more important than this analysis. The question of 10 years of pay leave, for example, why are there 10 years of pay leave? Where has it been taken for ten years? Another topic: why can you only withdraw all the money at once and not part of it? One problem was solved, which concerned this EUR 10000, but the question remains, for example, 4%, which has also been discussed repeatedly in this Chamber today. In addition, the policyholder's possibility to terminate the pension contract has to do with the expectations of insurance companies, and the question is that if pension contracts are cancelled, the situation of policyholders will potentially deteriorate, I am not talking about those who remain in pension funds here. As you understand, there are already quite a few of these problems alone, and the draft that has been submitted to us today does not really deal with these issues. Perhaps there are many more contradictions if we are to be presented and told. Sadly, they are simply ignored and tried to minimize, but there are no real answers. It is extremely bad that we in this Riigikogu are passing through a bill, in which we know that there may be questionable issues, there may be contradictions with the Constitution. But we haven't had a substantive discussion on this. This was not the case in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, despite the proposal to hold a separate discussion on these issues. The Chancellor of Justice also sent us a letter on his own initiative, even though he would have liked to hear, to ask, would have liked to discuss, discuss. So, unfortunately, everything shows that the coalition lacked the will to discuss, to delve into problems, to understand what this is all about. In fact, there is such a story with this bill that we can actually talk about it for quite a while. This has been done here today, more has been said, but the problem is that the coalition does not want to answer at all the questions that the opponents are asking, and it shows that you do not have any arguments. You're just using force. I don't know why you're here in the Riigikogu. As I said at the beginning, I believe that we came here to realize our ideals, but that does not mean that they should be done at the expense of others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U485	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U486	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U487	Three minutes extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U488	I must agree with the previous speaker that we have seen very well the substance of the unwillingness or the desire to hold a debate in the presentation by the Minister of Finance. My colleague Riina Sikkut here listed the various false facts that the Minister put forward, and it cannot be that she does not really know the things she said here. I think he knows, he's just kind of cynical, but he's not stupid. It's easy with a fool, you get caught, it's nice with a non-claw, you can essentially debate. But it doesn't make much sense to discuss him. By quoting the classics in the spirit of which he and some of his party associates behave, propaganda does not have to be gentle, pleasant or smart, but must be effective. As a result, I am not going to go overboard on the details of the pension system or its draft, but I am going to draw attention to one of the perhaps slightly broader currents of democracy that makes decisions and debates of this type possible. Indeed, one of the eternal problems of democracy is that all those in power must, as one mouth, confirm that the electorate is always right. This is particularly strongly confirmed by the politicians who take the highest opinion of voters. But you have to confirm everything. However, I have pointed out this example before that if someone's house is on fire and he calls firefighters, then it is not usually the case that firefighters come in, but the challenger takes the hose away from them and starts to erase himself, says, "Stay away, I will erase myself, I myself know best how to do it." And it's exactly the same with the pension system. How many people can reasonably expect them to know and be able to decide how to organise the pension system? Consequently, even in my opinion, the very strong message against this reform is that only 65% of people think it is reasonable to implement it. This is the first concern in the democratic current. The second is even more serious and often concerns the word 'freedom' used in the context of this reform. In particular, it has attacked the Reform Party because you see that you are a liberal party, but how do you not deal with this particular matter? In fact, this once again concerns all political movements, simply in relation to different topics at different moments, and perhaps also different political forces. For example, in the pre-election of the Democrats in the United States, fellow democrats are attacking one of the candidates who supports universal health insurance, as we do, whether or not he trusts people. Doesn't he trust people that they can choose their own health care? And then, unfortunately, he's gonna have to start his answer so I trust him, but. I think it would be easier for all of us if we could admit that a person is like this, we are all like that, that we are not always the smartest judge for our long-term interests. We're all like this, more or less like this and different issues, but basically, it's part of human behavior that we're not rational to the end. This in itself makes it possible to bring a great deal of positive to human societies, to human relations, to the fact that we do not all follow the Excel table alone. However, the resulting specificities should be taken into account in the implementation of the different systems. One known truth is that people don't appreciate the risk very well. We tend to overestimate short-term risk and underestimate long-term risk. At the moment, for example, there is a very strong sense of risk in the world, and also in our society, that there is a risk of a virus spreading from China. But every year, millions of people worldwide die of influenza, we pay no undue attention, and we only have a level of vaccination of 4%. We do not consider this risk to be very important; we cannot adequately assess it, although this risk is much higher each year than the current one from China. And exactly the same is the case for long-term savings. Of course, it is theoretically true that a person is able to take the money that he currently holds as compulsory insurance for retirement and to set the exact same amount each month for pension purposes, after all, nothing will change for a person. His own freedom, he can do it. And in fact, we have no doubt that the vast majority of people can do this in principle. We could do it. But let's look at a theoretical case. Let's put aside, for example, I don't know, 10 euros or 20 euros, depending on how much someone collects and let's say so, that's the money I don't use for everyday expenses, that's the money I keep for my pension. But let's just assume that one day, we're gonna stop working on the fridge. The fridge doesn't work anymore. Now let's think about how many people in the world are in this situation who would say no, this short-term risk seems very high, but it's actually okay, I'm gonna suffer until the next payday, and then I'm gonna buy a new refrigerator, but I'm not gonna touch the pension money, because if I go on savings, the long-term risk is that if I ever retire and my pension is small, I'm gonna be infinitely bigger than the fact that I don't have a month in the fridge. It is rational to reason this way, but none of us really behave like this. This is also the reason why the welfare state model is based on society taking on certain planning systems in order to minimise the risk that, by virtue of us, leads to irrationality in decisions in order to mitigate the major societal problems that may otherwise arise. And therefore, of course, it is very, say, politically apt to say that we give people more freedom. You could say that a politician has almost suicidal to say that he does not trust the voter. But in fact, when making this type of decision, we know that because of the psychological peculiarities, people are just as irresponsible as they are to fuel such a feeling. For me, it's obvious that it's this type of democracy trap...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U489	Mr. Ossinovski, the time is up!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U490	... we will come to such discussions and decisions as we have achieved today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U491	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U492	Good opposition politicians, reformers and sots! I am not a cynic, and therefore, even though you lied to the people 17 years ago by creating this second pillar, that the state is putting 4% to their 2%, I am still willing to believe that you sincerely wanted to improve the lives of our people, their retirement and good living in old age, and that I did not think of offering a good living to fund managers. But what's it turned out to be? As always! Our people, our people, they're the ones who were scrubbed. Those who stole the cream were fund managers. And all these years, you did not do the least of your attempts to remedy this situation, even though I have no doubt that you saw and knew perfectly what was going on. What separates a fool, say, a fool from a wise man? Just because a fool doesn't learn from his mistakes or the mistakes of others and stupid, stupid keeps on doing the same thing. I call on you to be smart and vote with the coalition in favour of this bill, which will correct these mistakes and open up much better opportunities for our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U493	Helir-Valdor Seeder! [[???H.-V. Seeder: 'Ma palun kolm minutit lisaks.'???]] You can have three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U494	Ladies and gentlemen, This short time, eight minutes, does not allow the content of the draft law under discussion to go in depth, and there has been an enormous amount of talk about this draft here today. I would like to approach this issue more generally and from an angle from which this draft has not been directly addressed at all, and which is a much more universal and general and fundamental approach to guaranteeing pensions, whether in Estonia or in other countries. In my opinion, the debate has been going around pension reform at two different levels. One level has been philosophical, world-viewed, based on natural and economic laws. Unfortunately, there has been less debate on these issues, but I would like to reiterate here and emphasise that people are not interchangeable with money, not with any financial scheme, not anywhere and never. It is foolish to ignore this natural and economic law. The future well-being of the people of Estonia, including pensioners, will depend on how much taxpayers we have here, how much added value will be created here and what public services will be offered here and what quality these services will be offered here. It is naive to think that the compulsory collection of money through financial institutions, which does not cover growth, wage growth, inflation, is as if the solution. No, it's not. This pension system is not based on natural and economic laws and does not act in the interests of future pensioners. Friends! It is foolish to withdraw money from the faster-growing Estonian economy and place it in slower-growing funds. This is not the way to create wealth for the future. The current pension system is also amplifying the negative demographic trend. The current pension system ignores basic truth and the law of nature that a generation of working age has had in the past, must and must continue to raise all its children and support its elderly. There is no other option and there is no alternative. There is no point in fooling yourself that the alternative to a childless future is the second pillar of pension. No, it's not. And this rule is universal, valid both in Estonia and in the rest of the world. I regret that this issue has been extremely little affected throughout the debate on pension reform. But this is a broader and more general issue that we will certainly be able to discuss here in the Riigikogu repeatedly in the future during discussions on other drafts. The second level of debate has been financial engineering. It has received a great deal of attention and has been actively involved by financial institutions, so-called experts, experts. Here we can say that practice is a criterion of truth. The pension system, which has been in place for 17 years with low returns and high administrative charges and even anti-human payout conditions, needs a radical change. And that is the main objective of the pension reform. We will stop living in a virtual and fictional world, colleagues, and we will build on real life! Since there has been a lot of talk here today about possible frauds, frauds, false ads, flattery that once the new law was passed, I recall that, at the beginning of the century, Hansapank lured people into the second pillar to join the honey jar, the Ühispank gave the joiners a blanket, Sampo Pank paid 200 kroons to join the second pillar, the LHV Fund gave the joiner a CD player. Now these same financial institutions, experts and experts are warning that people will be attracted and crazed in the future. Nothing new in this world! To the Socialists and the Reform Party, I want to say so much that it seems to me that you have changed places among yourselves. All expertise, calculations and analysts have clearly realised that the current second pillar of pension benefits a small proportion of people, those with a high income. For the vast majority, 75 to 80% of middle or low wage earners, this system is relatively damaging. I am surprised that the Social Democrats are so eager to fight for the current order of the second pension pillar. At the same time, the Reform Party, where is the policy of trusting your person and supporting personal freedoms? We know that 18% of the people who joined the second pillar have 56% of the money collected there. Let us trust people, not distrust them! In particular, by making the second pension pillar voluntary, you are discredited by not dismantling, not by withdrawing rights from someone, but by adding additional rights and responsibilities to all people, in particular by 18%, whose income is equal to two or three or four times the average wage in Estonia and who should be able to earn, distribute and manage money. But you don't trust them. So it really does not make sense to me that the Social Democrats and the Reform Party have not only grown together but have changed places with each other. But that happens in politics. I hope, however, that we all consider it more important for future pensioners and for this law to be adopted in such a way that it complies with the Constitution and other laws of the Republic of Estonia. If necessary, we will make improvements and improvements together. The fact that the pension investment account, which has been repeatedly emphasised here, is a constitutional right which we do not currently have and which we create by this law, has received such criticism, is absolutely not justified. And it is very reasonable that this draft sets out the implementation deadlines: when applications can be submitted, when a person can receive money to use it freely, and when he can apply his knowledge-skills to start up an investment account for money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U495	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U496	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, One thing about this bill is very good and very positive. I do not think that there is a person in Estonia who has not now checked whether or not he has a second pension pillar and what has happened to this pension pillar so far. I didn't really have a plan to come up here, but the last few calls made me press the button. Good Helir-Valdor! Yes, indeed, two political parties have grown together in the Riigikogu, but they are not Social Democrats and Reform Party, but they are Fatherland and EKRE, and it must be said that I believe that the Fatherland is like a smaller party in this union. And that part of your story that low-paid people lose the most with the second pillar and high-paid ones win the most is still very Phariseeic because these low-paid people are unable to create other investment opportunities for themselves today, they cannot save money to have a better income in their old age. So this talk isn't a criminal at all. And when the President of the Riigikogu came to this remote control, he said that, of course, wise people listen to specialists, listen to the advice of wise organisations and act with them in mind, but the fool still stands by his stupid idea. So I call for wise decisions, and today I call for no support for this bill so as not to be fooled! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U497	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U498	Thank you, good manager. Colleagues! The destruction that lies ahead of us today is not bad for not breaking itself. This destruction is not an aesthetic category, but is a real economic loss to future pensioners and taxpayers. And it seems to me that this is all particularly bad because I actually believe that you actually understand what you're doing. You actually know the consequences, but you do. You are aware, and you know quite well, that the future pension money will, above all, be taken out by people in difficult economic conditions, especially those with poor financial skills. You know all this, you get it, but you do. You know all these analyses and calculations, which show that if you just spend the money you collect for the future, then the future is a vile thing. You know that, but you do. You know the calculations that show that if those people who are already going to receive a small pension in the future take out what they have collected, their pension will be up to a third smaller over the years. You know these calculations, and you still do. And, of course, we all see and hear and, in turn, we understand how you hope that when that time is at one point in years' time, no one will remember that it was the government of the EKRE, the Centre Party and the Fatherland, led by Jüri Ratas, who made this mine tick for the future in January 2020. But this hope is in vain. Just as everyone still remembers how Edgar Savisaar voted against Estonia's accession to the European Union, how the Centre Party opposed Estonia's accession to the European Union, so in years' time everyone will also remember how the government of Jüri Ratas, the governments of the Centre Party, the Fatherland and the EKRE are behind the fact that the economic situation of future pensioners is worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U499	Andres Sutt!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U500	Thank you. Just in case, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U501	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U502	Honourable people of Estonia! Good Riigikogu! We represent different world views here, we have different education and backgrounds, different work and life experiences. However, I believe that we have one common task and responsibility: to make Estonia better, so that our country is better tomorrow than today, so that our people can live in Estonia both now and in the future, and that our people can trust their country. We are about to vote on a draft that does not pass the quality test either in terms of purpose, content or execution. It's a historic vote. The government's draft does not have a clearly defined objective. The draft does not answer the question of what problem we are solving, but it is the answer to this question that is at the heart of any change. How does the abolition of compulsory funded pensions affect the size of pensions today and in the future? How does the draft take into account the ageing population? We did not get an answer to these questions today, but the harsh reality is that the population is ageing, resulting in strong pressure to increase taxes, migration or retirement age. In addition to retirement, health and care costs are also increasing. By ignoring demography, we are setting a low ceiling for today's pensions and, in the future, pensions will be lower if they were to continue with compulsory funded pensions. Compulsory funded pension is an integral part of the Estonian pension system. The first pillar, as a number of colleagues have mentioned here, will only guarantee the essentials. The risk of poverty for Estonian pensioners is the highest in the European Union, but the draft government confirms pension poverty, instead reduces it, and creates pressure to substantially increase taxes. Today's bad choices are paid for by our children and grandchildren. Apart from the possibility to spend pension savings before retirement age, the government bill does not give people any real freedom. In this Chamber today, it has been mistakenly argued that, due to the second pillar, the pension of those who have joined only the first pillar is smaller or increased more slowly. You know that's not true. On the contrary, with the funded pension, the pension is higher, regardless of income. This is confirmed by the explanatory memorandum to this same draft. Moreover, without the second pillar, the pension will be about 30% lower in the future. This is what Eesti Pank says among others. Involvement has been apparent and people are allowed false freedom. None of the stakeholders who expressed an opinion considered it appropriate to make the second pillar optional. It is rare that the government completely ignores the criticisms and suggestions of experts and stakeholders. Moreover, the Chancellor of Justice ignores the constitutionality of the draft and these contradictions have not disappeared from the draft, as Maris Lauri explained here earlier. The Minister's reasoning was mostly that criticism was inappropriate or that criticism did not like it. Why is that? Is it cynicism, unprofessionalism or something third? I don't know, but I'm embarrassed about it. I have seen my own countries being oppressed in my life, but now I see it for the first time in Estonia, too, and that makes me sad. For the sake of history, I note that the government did not want to discuss, in essence, the draft proposed by us and the Socialists in October to improve the pension system, and the coalition voted it out. Our draft would have solved the real bottlenecks: firstly, making payouts flexible during retirement; secondly, making long-term payouts from the second and third pillars tax-free at retirement age; and thirdly, significantly improving people's knowledge of the income of their accumulated pension, the possibilities of payouts and the forecast. I think the lack of information is one of the root reasons why we hold this debate here today on a religious basis and why we cannot rationally debate. However, the complaint that we have tabled only empty amendments is wrong. Yes, I have tabled 689 amendments which, of course, were not substantive, but these proposals were the last means of stopping the roll of religion against the second pillar in order to prevent the adoption of a law in a form which is harmful to both current and future pensioners. Although this bill does not increase pensions, but puts the burden on our children and grandchildren and contains contradictions with the Constitution, the government decided to tie the bill to a vote of confidence. In doing so, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas personally took responsibility for the destruction of the pension system. More than 747000 people are at stake in today's historic vote for the future of pension savings of nearly EUR 5 billion. Before pressing the button, let us think about whether we are doing better by supporting Estonia and whether we are thus giving our people another reason to trust our country or whether we are doing the opposite by breaking the foundations of the pension system. This vote will send every one of us for decades. Borrowing a movie classic: "Think about it again. ' No party other than the Fatherland has received a mandate from its voters to abolish compulsory retirement pensions and to demolish the second pillar. Good people from the Centre Party and the EKRE! Respect your electorate's will and vote against the bill as we do. I was sad to hear Helir-Valdor Seeder say that we are talking here about the second pillar as an alternative to the childless future. For me, these two things are not related; for me, the second pillar is clearly also a pillar of a child-rich future. Let's talk about things the way they really are. The reform party and the social democrats are still in the process of re-submitting the draft, which solves the most important bottlenecks in the pension system without dismantling the system. Let us not live in the past but create a better future. We make a law out of it and make Estonia really better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U503	Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U504	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm looking at the process that has taken place here and where, in an effortful look, the texts that have been written somewhere, I don't know, at the party office or somewhere else are counted. [[In the diner.]] And by marking some of the messages that have sounded in this hall today, I'd take some tension off. This bill doesn't break anything. This bill gives people, citizens of the Republic of Estonia, people who live here in Estonia, all people who pay taxes and work here and are the owners of the second pillar today, the opportunity to decide their own money in the future. Over your money! Many people have thought it was public money: 2% comes from my salary and 4% puts the country on top. This opinion has long been the same. But it's not! This 4% comes from the first pillar of this particular person. The person with the second pillar has the first pillar 4% smaller, his first pillar. This 4% is his social tax, which has been transferred to the second pillar. This bill is intended to give people the opportunity to invest themselves, if that is what they want. This law gives a person the opportunity to withdraw money if he or she wishes, and if he or she wants to continue collecting money in the second pillar, he or she will also retain it. This bill does not break the second pension pillar system, but makes it voluntary. People who wish to continue in the second pillar will retain this opportunity. More than that! People who have not yet joined the second pillar will have the opportunity to do so in the future. This gives them the opportunity to make their own decisions on how to move forward with the money in the second pillar, and I think that is what matters most. A man's will must prevail; it must be his decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U505	And now it's like there's no need to speak anymore. The negotiations have therefore been concluded. Draft 108... Is there anything else anyone wants to say? If not, in the case of Bill 108, pursuant to § 137 of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu... due to § 137, no amendments will be put to the vote and we will go to the final vote. [[In the diner.]] There you go! Ladies and gentlemen, The time for the hall call is up. We are going to the final vote. Attention and extreme concentration, please. I am voting on the draft Act 108 on funded pensions initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws (mandatory pension reform). Please take a stand and vote. The bill has been passed as a law. There were 56 members of the Riigikogu in favour and 45 against. And that's the first item on the agenda. I would now ask all colleagues to calm down. Dear friends, please be at peace.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U506	Colleagues, do not stand between the lines here, go outside if you want to discuss anything further! Colleagues are so excited they can't hear. Now, we have calmed down and we will begin to discuss the second item on today's agenda. To this end, the 'Kultuuripoliitika rahvus' until 2020 is the 2019 Implementation Report. The rapporteur is Tõnis Lukas, Minister of Culture. Please, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U507	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! I just rejoiced a few minutes ago that 101 members of the Riigikogu have arrived unprecedentedly to listen to the report on cultural policy. But actually the interest is really great, I've been alone in this hall before sometimes with a verbatim. But right now I'm hoping for questions, I'm hoping for an interest in this report, and the current picture shows that it's a big one. We often hear it said: it is a question of culture. For example, what time is it today's birthday boy? In Fred Jüss's new portrait "The Beauty of Being," today's birthday child, yes: "The cultural level of one country or nation can be very much determined by how much he cares about his natural values, how much attention he pays to them, how well they are studied, how well-known they are. And if they're kept. It's a purely cultural issue. " By the way, almost 10,000 people were watching this movie on the opening weekend alone. Fred Jüss can only be accepted. At the same time, ask: is there anything at all that is not a question of culture? Is there anything that culture doesn't touch? Of course, my answer is not original, but culture is indeed in everything that surrounds us on a daily basis: in nature, in creation, in human relations, also in relations between people and the state. Above all, culture is about the nature of these relations and attitudes. If we are caring and caring, we are more of a culture. And an uncaring attitude also often points to a lack of culture. Culturalism. So caring is a matter of culture. However, it is not just a question for the Ministry of Culture, because far from all cultural issues fall within our domain of governance. This is also clearly indicated by the basic document 'Culture Policy Fundamentals until 2020' or 'Culture 2020', which unambiguously shows that the key to resolving cultural issues is inter-sectoral and inter-ministerial cooperation. However, as the Ministry responsible for the field, the Ministry of Culture has, of course, prepared an annual report on the fulfilment of the objectives of Culture 2020, bringing together information from all other ministries. And the covers are here, and this is a lot longer than I'm going to give you in my introductory presentation, but there's still some summary. The vision document Culture 2020 sets out the objective of cultural policy: "Developing a society that values creativity by preserving and promoting the national identity of Estonia by exploring, storing and transferring cultural memory and creating favourable conditions for the development of a vibrant, open and diverse cultural space and for participation in culture. ' As can be seen from the title, the planning period set out in this document ends this year, but this does not mean that all the objectives of cultural policy have been finally achieved. In a year's time, the Estonian Ministry of Culture will be able to present the final report for the period 2014-2020, but it is already in the process of renewing the fundamentals of cultural policy. Behind last year's report, I must definitely confirm, there is a consistent work of the Ministry of Culture, the entire Riigikogu and, in fact, the whole Estonian society, and a large part of the work of the Ministry of Culture, led by my predecessor, Indrek Saare. Last year, the people of the Ministry of Culture visited all counties, discussions were held to plan a new development plan, but we can talk more about this new development plan. Although according to the current development plan, the minimum wage of a cultural worker should be equal to the average gross wage forecast by the state, the level of wage increases in this year was slightly lower than in recent years due to the state budget's possibilities. These negotiations were held last year, and this also concerns this report. The payroll fund for the employees of the institutions in the area of government of the Ministry of Culture will grow by 2.5% this year. The wage agreement takes into account all employees of public authorities, public institutions, foundations and county libraries who are paid from the state budget. When it comes to higher education or qualified specialists, there are almost 4,000 of them. The national minimum wage shall also be used as a basis for determining the artist's and writer's salary. Paying the wages of the artists has provided them with a creative peace and helped to reassure society that creation is also a job. In 2020, the number of earners in each sector will increase by two, so that 13 writers and 13 artists will be paid continuously by the Creative Union with the support of the state. It has also been agreed that the next year, or more recently the next year, the number of earners will increase by another four creative individuals. In cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, the item 'Extend social guarantees for creators, in particular health insurance' in the programme of the Government of the Republic' is completed. At the end of the round there is work on the document 'Analysis and proposals to ensure the sustainability of the healthcare funding system and access to healthcare for uninsured persons', which also addresses irregular recipients of income, including creative people. Grants and investments. In addition to the Ministry of Culture and cultural capital, many other ministries contribute to the cultural field through various support measures. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications supports major international cultural events. Viljandi Folk Music Festival, Tallinn Music Week, Black Nights Film Festival, Narva Opera Days and others have benefited from the measures of the Enterprise Estonia. The Leader actions of the rural development plan managed by the Ministry of Rural Affairs supported 45 projects related to regional cultural heritage, including the restoration of the Church of the Cross, the valorisation of abandoned crosses of the Kadrina Cemetery as an art object, the history room of Kostivere Manor and others. In addition, 34 regional artistic, musical and other cultural activities and seven craft activities were supported. Under the leadership of the Ministry of Education and Research, the government approved the financing of the construction of the Tallinn Music and Ballet School to be created for 43 million euros. The studies will start in the new building on 1 September 2022. The Haapsalu and Läänemaa Museums re-opened the bishop's stronghold in Haapsalu with the support of a measure to strengthen the competitiveness of the regions of the European Union structural funds. The Narva Museum project for the restoration of the Narva Castle Convention Building and the exhibition of a new permanent exhibition will be completed by the summer of this year. The Estonian Maritime Museum's Fat Margaret building complex was completed in 2019 with the support of the EAS European Regional Fund support measure. It is worth noting that for the first time in Estonia, solutions to support equally exciting opportunities are also offered to visitors with visual, auditory and motion difficulties, as well as to visitors with intellectual disabilities. Several major investment plans continued. The Ministry of Culture plans the construction of contemporary Estonian National Broadcasting, or ERR, television studios with optimised volumes, the reconstruction of the building of the National Library for both the National Library and the National Archives, and the concept of building joint museums is further developed. The Cultural Endowment of Estonia continued to finance buildings included in the list of national cultural objects drawn up by the Riigikogu in 1996 and managed to correct errors: the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre, or EAMT, reached the opening of the building 20 years ago. So this debt has now been extinguished. So now is the time to start creating a new list of cultural objects that could emerge in the near future with the support of cultural capital. And this is definitely the important end in the hands of the Riigikogu Committee on Culture. From the Estonian language and the singing party. The most important objectives and tasks of cultural policy relate to the Estonian language, i.e. the issue of language is definitely a question of culture. The Ministry of Education and Research declared 2019 the year of Estonian language to celebrate becoming the official language 100 years ago. The Estonian language as a state language was mentioned for the first time in the pre-constitution act on 4 June 1919, the 'Temporary regime of the Republic of Estonia' was its title. The official status of the Estonian language was confirmed in the first constitution of the Republic of Estonia in 1920. This position of the Estonian language, which is still enshrined in our constitution, and which has now been further strengthened in recent times, must continue and be furnished daily, and narrow borders must be drawn so that whose task it would be and whether it makes sense at all here. Estonian-language education, Estonian-language literature, teaching Estonian-language, Estonian-language research, Estonian-language research, and Estonian-language research, these are all topics that require constant attention and cooperation in finding solutions. They also need scientific research, understanding the thinking of our language and culture. This is why we have national sciences and, more generally, humanities, which we don't consider science to be the model of Anglo-American science we mimicked. But we certainly have applied sciences in Estonia, which give us the opportunity to implement the Constitution, which provides for the preservation of language and culture. The role of the Ministry of Culture in keeping the cultural space in Estonian is currently to offer different language learning opportunities to people of other nationalities in the Estonian language houses in Narva and Tallinn. As the interest is high, in 2020 the Ministry will expand the possibilities for free learning from 2,500 to 5500. The language houses' deed 'Find a common language' justifies itself. This care will, of course, continue to be provided by the Ministry of Culture. In addition to the Estonian language year, 2019 was also the Song Festival Year. After all, we celebrated the 150th anniversary of the first general song festival in Tartu. The top event of the Song Festival year was the XXVII Song and XX Dance "My Love," preceded by the all-Estonian 'Come Come'. The whole great event was introduced by the Tartu Song Day and dance performance. The scope and responsibility of the generations and regions of the Song and Dance movement as a guardian of balance, co-ordination and fundamental values in today's Estonia were also shown to be robust and genuine last year. I would like to thank the main organisers of the party Aet Maatee and his leading team, general leaders Peeter Perens and Vaike Rajaste and the main conductor of the Tartu party Triin Kochi and the director of the dance performance Jaanus Randma for the memorable concerts! The scope of the generations of this tradition is clear to all. This was also demonstrated by a record large audience: a total of 44602 singers, dancers and musicians, about 47,000 people in the procession and the number of spectators with a ticket 125828. And what's more important: the term "green song party" came into use. That, too, is certainly a question of culture. This extraordinarily high interest also had a negative side. The unexpectedly completed sale of tickets to the second concert of the Song Festival and the absence of access to the dance also created feelings in some of the outsiders that we would not like to associate with our holiday and big party. These were organizational decisions and were inescapable in the situation, however. If one side of this issue can be resolved in the future with clearer and more timely pre-communications, then the other side will be more complex. The venue of the parties, the local conditions and logistical solutions will require a great deal of attention in the coming years, as the fullness of both Kalevi Stadium and Tallinn Song Festival Festival reached an absolute maximum. The situation in the singing field becomes particularly critical when the neighbouring Estonian Exhibition territory can no longer be used in the future, as the area is undergoing active real estate development. The negotiations with the city of Tallinn have led to an agreement that at least high-rise buildings will not be built on the plots adjacent to the square. After the party intensified negotiations, the city has confirmed this, even though the high buildings were previously planned. As a black humour, however, it is not impossible that the capacity problem of squares resolves 'in itself'. The movement of song and dance is largely based on the commitment of the instructors, but it can be seen that they simply may not continue in the visible future. More than half of supervisors are starting to retire, young people are not motivated by current work organisation and remuneration, and collectives, especially in rural areas, are not economically sustainable either. A study was carried out with the support of the Ministry of Culture to accurately map the situation, a summary of which says, among other things, that in order to obtain an average wage in Estonia, women must instruct ten and men 6.5 collectives on average. They are often not guaranteed summer holidays, missions or other necessary things that are part of the employment relationship. As the continuation of the tradition of singing and dance is the joint care and responsibility of the state, local governments and enthusiasts themselves, the Ministry of Culture prepares, as a first step and in cooperation with partners, a wage support measure for supervisors. The related state budget resources are already expected to be applied for in the budgetary strategy of the country planned for 2021 to 2024. By the way, good listeners, did you know that the Estonian Song Festival Year gave the travelling pastels solemnly to the digital cultural year for the next year? If you believe in Valdur Mikita, it is in the organic embedding of the various layers of time that the inner wealth and power of our culture is manifested. Grandma, with a smartphone in one hand and a fungus in the other, waiting for her IT-specialist grandson to raise a sheep in the courtyard with a roof of solar panels, that's the natural course of things for us. And, of course, digital culture also extends to traditional cultural areas: museums, libraries, film, music, visual and performing art, books, newspapers and magazines. In the context of the Digital Year, we view it as a culture that is digitally created, distributed and used. It includes both digitalised cultural heritage and digitally-created works, which increasingly form our everyday world. The most important activity in the field of architecture at national level in 2019 is related to the proposal of the Interministerial Working Group on Spatial Creation to establish a competence centre for spatial creation for the Government of the Republic, the Rural and Regional Board, or Mare. This would fulfil the current functions of the Land Administration, but it would also transfer the functions of the Regional Administration Department of the Ministry of Finance and add new functions that guarantee understanding and valorisation of high quality spatial creation, which are not currently fulfilled at national level. The Ministry of Culture and the activities aimed at valuing our architecture also have a role to play here, which is why I am so excited about the formation of this Mare. In order to ensure that the state values the integrated living environment as an essential element in achieving the SDGs, the Working Party also jointly formulated the basic principles of the quality space, the common agency that will be set up to monitor implementation of which will be responsible. In order to promote a high-quality public space, the development of city centres, supported by the Good Public Space programme, continued. The heart of the city of Võru and Kuressaare and Rakvere Pikk street were added to the central square of Tõrva, Põlva, Valga and Rapla already opened in 2018. Kärdla, Jõhvi and Viljandi solutions are planned to be opened in 2021 and the historical town hall of Narva is planned to be opened in 2021. Kill, Võsu, Lihula and Paide are waiting for the sequel. The Ministry of Culture, together with the Association of Estonian Architects, is seeking funding for the continuation of the programme. Some other areas of activity. First of all, the art of the show. Looking at the preliminary conclusions, it is clear that the number of new productions, performances and audiences has increased again. The most critical voices also call it overproduction or a threat to quality, the supporting voices rejoice that the theatre is still one of the most important ways to become part of culture in Estonia. In the country's view, it is important that the part of the theatre network that works with the support of the state is distributed evenly across Estonia. This purpose was served by the establishment of the Kuressaare City Theatre in cooperation with the state and Saaremaa rural municipality, as well as the large amount of additional resources for the functioning of Narva Vaba Lava. The "Theatre in the Land" programme continues to lead professional theatre to the regions. It is possible that the volume of this programme will need to be increased in the future to support theatres who will take their performances to smaller places. The solution was also raised by the issue of further performance activities on the premises of NO99, which ceased its activities. Theatre and rehearsal halls at Sakala 3 will continue to be available to performance artists; they are already reserved and quite popular. Two new ideas reached the final round of the competition received a three-year grant agreement and the remaining money was distributed to increase basic grants for private theatres. Unfortunately, this time, too, was not enough money for everyone or not for the amount they wanted. In cooperation with the Association of Estonian Performing Institutions, discussions are continuing to update the Act on Performance Institutions in order to make the distribution mechanism even fairer than it should be possible. But here, we certainly need an effective partnership between the performing institutions themselves. Movie and sound art. Film art is doing the 'EV 100' movie program with extra funding in the back wind, but still very well. By the end of November, about 3.34 million cinema visits had been registered in Estonia, including the viewing of domestic films more than 830000.2019 at the beginning of the screening 'Truth and Justice' had brought more than 267000 people to the cinemas by the end of October. This film became the most viewed Estonian screenplay and also the best feature of the year. PÖFF, as well as the largest film festivals in Northern Europe, is developing in a row: this year's programme has more than 250 games and 300 short and animated films, more than 70000 audiences. Thus, there are strong prerequisites for the development of film art and for the interest of viewers to grow, but there is not yet an adequate and sustainable system of funding. There is also a lack of an international-level film studio in Estonia, which has been planned for several years and which would give a strong impetus to the development of the film area. There are developments in this direction in cooperation between producers, Tallinn and the state. There are other cities that want to create a film studio just as actively, but today there was talk about the city of Tallinn. I didn't mention that before. Like in the film field, the positive activating effect of the marking of EV 100 in sound art had on entrepreneurship and achievements in the sector as well as on audiences. But important jubilees were also in the field itself. The main event was the celebration of the 100-year anniversary of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre and the opening of the new hall complex, which will have a significant and positive impact on the performance of both music education and concert organisation throughout Estonia. The 100th year of operation was also completed at the Tallinn Music School called Georg Ots and at the Heino Eller Music School in Tartu. The Estonian Art Museum celebrated its 100th anniversary with an exhibition in Tallinn, Haapsalu, Valga, Japan, Finland and Italy. At the same time, the 9-year-old gallery Temnikova & Kasela broke into the absolute top of the art market, presenting Estonian artists' works for the first time at both the Basel and London Art Fairs. In Viljandi, a private-initiative Rük gallery began its activities. In Tallinn, Telliskivi Creative City opened its doors as a private initiative at the beginning of the summer, the Swedish photo centre Fotografiska, which was enlarged to Estonia, and the visitors' numbers of the opening exhibition were impressive. Kai Art Centre and the part of the ARS art campus under the Opened ARS project, which created more jobs, studio and studio projects that are flexible and suited to the needs of artists, were completed with EAS investment support at Noblessner Harbour City. We will continue to develop the model of support for regional exhibition houses. Literature and libraries. Estonians still have a lot of interesting writing on their reading tables or nightstands, but both the number and prints of the names are in some decline. Estonian original fiction is still popular both in the eyes of the domestic reader and internationally. Of course, it is difficult to overcome the achievement of 2018 when Estonia was the main guest with Latvia and Lithuania at the London Book Fair and 110 Estonian works were translated into 30 foreign languages. In 2019, 61 works were translated into 19 languages. New recognition also appeared in the literary landscape last year: for the first time an illustration prize named Edgar Valter was given. Library development takes place in the keyword all'e-state'. We create a comprehensive network in order to be able to keep a systematic record of the lending of e-books in the future. According to the idea presented at the workshop on the future of libraries in Setomaa, the future library could still have many public services, start-ups' activities, etc. In the field of heritage conservation and museums, the implementation of the Heritage Protection Act was the main issue. The National Heritage Board gained the power to do so, as well as operating grants. The total amount of benefits and grants last year was 2.86 million euros. In addition, one million euros was added to the reserve fund for the property reform of the Government of the Republic to clean up the returned monuments. In addition, a measure has been put in place to clean up the farm architecture. And since it was popular, there was more money. A few words about museums. The Ministry of Culture manages seven state museums and 13 state-owned museum foundations. There are four other state museums and one foundation in the administration of other ministries. In addition to the customary museum work, it is becoming increasingly important to unthink the memory and knowledge they collect and to bring into public use by digitising modern e-solutions and collections. Currently, under the leadership of the National Heritage Board, there is a project that requires two artificial intelligence or crat prototypes to be completed over the next year, one of which helps to describe museums more effectively, the other makes it easier to carry out museum inventories and plan conservation work. The national cultural heritage digitisation project, however, provides the necessary data for the development of cratches. Alongside all these cratches, however, I also highlight the new application of the Heritage Board on the path of valorization of natural sacred places. The Christian forest of Rosma was protected at the beginning of this year. We hope to recapture the map layer of natural sacred places on the maps of the Land Office and to value natural sacred places as objects of heritage. So back to the cratches: a good digital cultural year for everyone! There are many other areas that I would like to talk about. After all, the state budget is made up of 100% of the money invested in culture, as business culture, work culture, traffic culture and all kinds of other cultures are important. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U508	Thank you, Minister. Every member of the Riigikogu is now able to ask the rapporteur one oral question. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U509	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. As always, the Estonian Year of Culture is so rich and versatile that there will immediately be a feeling of pity that not everything can be enjoyed. This report contains a section entitled 'Cultural Cooperation with National Companions and Tribal Peoples', which speaks of Estonian Diaspora Policy. One of the tasks of the Minister of Population of the Government is to design a policy for the involvement of external Estonian communities and to prepare a new global Estonian programme. To this end, the Government of the Republic's Global Cooperation Commission for Estonians has also been set up, which also has more roles to play in promoting global Estonians, and this is undoubtedly a good and necessary objective. I recall, however, that the Commission is made up of representatives of the coalition, not representatives of the opposition. Please correct, if my information is not accurate, and if so, should it not be a cross-party committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U510	I don't know the composition of this committee by heart. But I'll look into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U511	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U512	Thank you very much, Minister, for a very interesting review. I read this report thoroughly. There would be a number of questions ranging from guarantees for artists to universal design and accessibility, but since every questioner has one question, I will focus on interesting information about objects under heritage protection. In 2020, it will also be possible to organise the historical centres of small towns. This is the 'Local development and poverty reduction' programme. There are quite a large amount of external resources ♪ to manage the cultural heritage in the historical centres of small towns. My question is: who can apply for this money? Are these local governments? Are these civilians whose heritage-protected buildings are located in such an area? Are there any private companies that have houses there? Who can actually apply for this money?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U513	Thank you for a very good question. As far as I know, all these owners should be able to apply for this support. But when we talk about planned centres, our partners are primarily municipalities. However, this support measure should also allow private owners of buildings to apply for money if they are aware of the local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U514	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U515	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I use the freedom of a member of the Riigikogu to ask a question that does not concern the report. I want to ask you about the future of music schools. Music schools are currently managed by local governments, but it is no secret that, just as in general education schools, there is a huge drought for professional teachers in music schools. For example, Võru Music School, which is a very high-level music school, employs five foreigners from Venezuela, Colombia, Spain, Italy, because it is very difficult to get Võru professional music teacher from Estonia. My question is: do you consider this to be a problem? And if you consider this to be a problem, could you discuss with the Minister for Education and Research what the state could do to ensure that music schools are managed in a sustainable way?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U516	The question obviously did not concern whether the proportion of foreigners was a problem. But these foreign teachers are definitely here, I don't know all the cases on a case-by-case basis within the framework of the various support programmes. It is difficult to get a permanent frame of study into hobby schools and I would like to bring out music and art schools, just like you, because their 'continuous' preparation cycle is different from that of other hobby schools. It is for regional and wage reasons that getting a frame is problematic. As far as I know, there are no problems in Tallinn, Tartu, Viljandi and certainly in many other parts of the world as you described in the case of Võru. But wages are relatively low. I stress that the state's tactics so far have been to raise the minimum wage of cultural workers, which should actually also attract the wages of local cultural workers. I very much hope that this will be done, it is a cultural issue. Right now, I don't have a prescription to oblige these people to raise their wages. All kinds of ways to switch teachers between different schools, yes, but in the specific case you have indicated, it is probably a question of pay. It would certainly be worth raising, because Võru must have a proper music school.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U517	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U518	Thank you. Dear Minister, Last year was one of the most positive events certainly a significant improvement in the accessibility of the Maritime Museum. It was really nice to visit. And also last year, one of the government's flagship activities was to launch the work of the Accessibility Task Force. As I read in this brochure, the Ministry of Culture is well involved. Since there was not much talk about accessibility in your presentation, and there is not much talk about accessibility in this brochure, for example, for performing institutions or cinemas, perhaps you would like to give a small overview of this year 2019 from the point of view of improving accessibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U519	Thank you. In order to make a technically correct overview, I should have data on all objects and all types of art. What I can say is that the number of audio books has increased. In museums where it is not yet available, work is being done to prepare audio guides, although I also know the difficulties involved. We will certainly address the issue of the price of audio books to 9%, if we look to the future now, along with the reduction of VAT on e-media publications and e-books. Their VAT could also be reduced to 9%. But speaking of physical accessibility, yes, the Maritime Museum is a good example. I know that the convention building opened in Haapsalu and the museum that is there are also well-accessible. Whether the city walls are quite the last point, I owe the answer, but it is commended and the project promoters are satisfied with that. These requirements exist in the cultural buildings currently being put into operation, and I hope that people with reduced mobility will also be satisfied and will be able to access them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U520	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U521	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Cultural areas must always be paid for. It's like a charity that only welfare states can afford. One concern is, precisely from the perspective of funding, that it is not possible to compare today's sectoral funding of cultural capital with the contribution of the state, including the Ministry of Culture and other donors, to the same areas. There is a lack of a single systematized information system to which the reference data to be processed will be transferred. My question is, since then, a single information system will be created, where the funding data for cultural capital foundations will run into. Since it's not today, there's a lot of confusion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U522	Cultural Capital Financing Data, Cultural Capital Decisions... [[K. Šmigun-Vähi will explain the position.]] I understand, but cultural capital decisions are all public and systematically available on their website. This concerns financing decisions for cultural capital. As far as the money put on culture at all is concerned, indeed, since culture concerns everything, it is difficult to get together the general information base of the amount of money put together by municipalities and the state from private capital to cultural objects, cultural outputs, concerts and publishing. So this statistical basis, let's say, is going to be a long curve, that's what I have to say. The Statistical Office doesn't get it together very easily, maybe there's something we can do. But when it comes to the claim that culture must always be paid for, there are some cultural areas where this is not quite the case. Yes, the provision of start-up capital is important in virtually all cultural areas. Certain cultural activities, concerts and movies earn themselves evenly, but it's clear that they have to get some start-up money at first, and it's good to have it coming from a country in a small culture like us. One area that brings in is definitely the creative industries, which are also dealt with by the Ministry of Culture. Creative economy is very clearly the starting point for culture, it is an economy with cultural content, and it has shown itself quite well in the various measures taken not only for major cultural events but also for sporting events. Bigger business brings in more money than it takes out. So a certain part of the culture also brings in money, is profitable. But, of course, morally speaking, it brings more life to Estonia at all, also brings us tourists and ultimately guarantees our overall prosperity. It wouldn't be without culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U523	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U524	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Today the Estonian author support team met with representatives of the Estonian Designers Association and the Estonian Performers' Association. It was common ground that copyright law could already be morally obsolete, especially the question that in no way is the idea protected at this point. My question is whether the Ministry has felt that the idea as such should be protected. Would this be an appropriate task for both the Riigikogu and the Ministry to be an innovator on this path in Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U525	Thank you. The idea is actually protected in Estonia to the same extent as in Europe as a whole. Our copyright system complies with this standard. As far as the cost-effectiveness of ideas is concerned, there are indeed problems under copyright law. The issue of the taxation of musical sound media is also important, it has not been solved at the moment, and the authors feel that they are not actually able to get a decent reward for presenting their works. The Ministry of Justice is working on a draft. We have agreed that instead of the so-called cassette fee, there will be an additional part of the cost of sound media, the result of which will be received by authors through copyright organisations and they will receive adequate remuneration for their work. So it's going down, the Justice Department has the job, but the model was decided by the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U526	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U527	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! As you said, culture is everywhere. You are now presenting the most important report in the field of culture and it is good to read that the renewal of the fundamentals of cultural policy is in the final stages and that this process has been inclusive, that the discussion days of the counties have been carried out, etc. And just as the process of updating the fundamentals is under way, the restructuring of the country's strategic planning is also being discussed. The basics as the format disappears and will replace 'Estonia 2035' as an umbrella document covering all areas. Do you think it is possible to replace fundamentals in the field of culture? Does this replacement still allow for the preservation of diversity, as is the case in the fundamentals, that from heritage conservation to cultural journalism and from sound art and visual art to museums, all the topics relevant to the tasks set out in our Constitution are covered? What do you think about restructuring strategic planning when there are no longer fundamentals?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U528	Thank you. Where did you get such a good question? It's gonna make you jealous! Very precise question! In fact, if sectoral development plans remain at government level, I do not think that in these development plans, if they are approved by the government and so well implemented at national level, something will not be reflected very much. But one thing like that would be: this so-called silo towering or mentality, so don't you come into my field, I'll do it separately. The processing of fundamentals at the level of the Riigikogu would mean a broader view, although this is not excluded in the case of development plans. But let's say that there's just always your official complications. At the same time, I would like to say that, for example, right now, we are doing one development plan that is planned as a development plan for approval at government level. We are doing this together in the area of government of the three ministers, this is the development plan for population cohesion, where basically two ministries are involved, but three ministers are involved. The Minister of Population is the leader or has the most part in this work, and the Minister of Culture and the Minister of the Interior also have their own roles. We have not declared any ministers lucky, but all three of us as triumvirate are responsible for this. So, basically, it's possible to cross borders like this. At the same time, in the presence of the opposition, I find it bad to say that I do not know exactly, but at the moment it seems that, according to the area, it is also possible to decide on the fundamentals. It's not mandatory, but it can go. The fundamentals of security policy will certainly come at the level of the Riigikogu and sports will already be valid until 2030. Even on the agenda of tomorrow's government meeting, I saw an initiative by the Ministry of Social Affairs concerning the fundamentals at the level of the Riigikogu. So in the main, we have discussed these things, but there is a very clear statistical output of how many fundamentals will come at the level of the Riigikogu and how many development plans there are not. I know that the total number of development plans will definitely fall. This was also our aim, so that bureaucracy and any mere work on drawing up a development plan would be less. Officials must also have time to do real work, not just write development plans. But yes, how many basics there will be, and how many government-level development plans, I can't say for sure. But if the Riigikogu insists, the Committee on Culture wishes, I would be happy to bring this document to the level of the Riigikogu. I don't want to interfere with the general discipline of the government right now, but that's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U529	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U530	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I am glad that this map application of natural shrines is getting underfoot again, because a great job had been done. However, during this rather intensive period of logging, I wonder whether it would not be possible to take some further steps and also to protect the large natural shrines between cultural history and nature conservation. In many cases, citizens' resentment has been caused by cutting at well - known natural shrines. However, if they are not protected, they are, in the eyes of the choppers, completely ordinary economic forests. Can we expect some faster developments in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U531	Thank you. I'm worried about the subject the same way you are. Perhaps a couple of members ago I led the support group for the natural shrines of the Riigikogu then there was such a group here in the Riigikogu as well. Maybe it's worth creating right now. We were quite active, we took the floor, we attended conferences and everywhere else, we called others along. The hardest part, however, is to define these limits. However, this is actually the most important thing in forestry. Where, for example, the center of a few giants is, it is easier to agree on, as I recall, but where the overall border runs, how many hectares of this area is there, it is disputed. That's the information you get from the recollections, the library at the Literary Museum. By the way, it's also important that we still have the Literary Museum in the future, and that we deal with national sciences. It's actually a time-consuming job. At the moment, the National Heritage Board will continue to do so. One round of KIK's money fell away, so it's a bit of work, but the county inventory continues. I have also raised this issue as an important point, and yesterday I spoke again to the Management Board of the National Heritage Board that I want to speed it up, that it is an important issue. As of right now, I think the map could be put back into the map of the Earth Administration. We had an agreement with the Minister of the Environment that he would act to ensure that his office would do so. I'll check it again, but it's clear that in order for forest owners to be able to respect some place, they need to know there's something there. And we have to hurry so that everything is normally described and these places are respected. I am very pleased that we have actually reached the point of granting protection to these places and to the giant forests. This may lead to disputes with some owners in the future, but then there will be keepers and protectors of natural shrines on which to rely.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U532	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U533	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I also want to ask about the protection of natural shrines. Do you, or do you, the Ministry of Culture cooperate with RMK so that they don't accidentally end up chopping up some giant forest, as has happened many times, unfortunately?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U534	Well, yeah. After all, RMK is also a large forest owner and this layer of cards is important to them. RMK can be disciplined in the same way as other owners. And I'm definitely gonna do it the way things open up here. Now that this other side is also represented: it is good for me to stand before you here; you, too, are the faith of the holy places of nature, so that we all belong to the shard of the giants and the Tuslars. At the same time, it must be said that there are small nips from nature conservation that need to be known. If there is still a haze inside, in order to keep other forests and the same natural shrines nearby, you sometimes have to be cut. These are the places of discussion, here only with a shovel, and you can't get it with a banner. But, yes, RMK must be responsible for what it does because it delivers its timber with a quality mark, which assumes that it is ethically cut. And that means he also has to make ethically correct decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U535	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U536	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The anniversary of 'My Love', 'Truth and Justice' in film art, 'The Beauty of Being' is a creation that was presented so that it touched my heart, and I believe that actually the hearts of many other Estonians. Today's birthday boy Fred Jüss has said that if we do too much pumping, we might forget about the situation with the well. And I really want to ask here today, how do you feel: is this well, or Estonian culture, well maintained? Is the chemical composition of the water such that the water is still suitable for drinking? And what about the pump in different areas of Estonia? After all, cultural policy is, in a sense, the pump, which must work oiled, so that the story of Estonia is recorded and culture kept?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U537	Thank you for a very good question. The answer could be... Uh, I couldn't make it last night, but today I have all day to answer. In fact, Estonian culture is very well maintained and I agree with the optimists in this regard. But I'm saying that if we learn from history, and if we notice the dangers that a national culture in the world can be doomed to, we know what has happened in history and what is happening around us all the time, when we think in depth, we realize that we really have reason to worry. The care of the Ministry of Culture is in fact to implement all kinds of measures. Although, yes, there is internationalisation and other things, music does not have a nationality and, of course, culture is also a global phenomenon. However, we are still invited to ensure that Estonian-language theater, Estonian-language literature, is maintained thanks to orders. Can't get the theater without literature, basically the opposite. Outputs in Estonian at all, such as a song in Estonian, including choral music, must make sense of our culture at every turn. I see the danger that humanities are not really taken seriously. The science financing model is not just about political decisions and only about giving more money to science, which should, of course, be done. However, I can see closely how recent financing decisions have started to tend within the limits of the available money. If we don't understand our culture, if we don't study it ourselves, if we give money to our associate who studies English literature on a good level, but doesn't give it to any projects that study Estonian literature, then we won't have a long party. It's just that all these things are connected. If we don't value everything, the young will not appreciate it, and the language will be the same. If we give back the piece, say nothing happens, we can take something from the English waitress, of course we understand. But if we give up a piece of the image in our cultural space of our language and culture of their being alive is a sign of use, we have to use them, if we let them be rejected, do not use them, then they will remain weaker and at some point this limit will be exceeded if this use falls below the level of critical mass and will begin to go as many nations around us have gone. I very much dream of seeing young people on the streets alongside climate strikes sometimes also holding posters during "languages and cultures" strikes to prevent the destruction and extinction of small indigenous languages and cultures, which unfortunately takes place in the world. Environmental protection is important, but cultural conservation and protection are the same. Natural diversity of the environment is important, but cultural diversity is also very important. This understanding, I see, it's getting a little low here and there, and it's a threat. But we're doing great, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U538	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U539	Thank you, Mr President. Good Tõnis! When will we see this historic day when all freelance writers, artists and other creative people will be members of the Health Insurance Fund? This, of course, may be more relevant to the Minister of Social Affairs than to you, but I'm still asking.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U540	Well, I've already reported here, I don't remember reading it to you, but basically we're doing research now with the other institutions to get a picture of what the social problems are, let's say, people in vulnerable areas in the labour market, how they are protected. Based on this study, we're working on a system. We have this commitment in the coalition agreement. The ministry is really the Ministry of Social Affairs, but I just talked to Tanel Kiige about it. We're putting the basics together faster based on the information we've got right now. If the results of this study are also coming, I hope to get some pictures and suggestions during this year. Of course, we will do this together with the Ministry of Social Affairs and, in fact, formally under their leadership. But also in the case of the cultural people, social protection must be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U541	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U542	Thank you. Dear Minister, I read in this report that some libraries do not have a computer at all and one quarter of libraries do not receive e-services normally in the current Estonian e-state. Is there a plan for that? When can any library use e-services with a smart device?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U543	Thank you. People's libraries, which are largely municipal libraries, have state support to provide books and other journals. The county libraries are also partially covered by the state's labour costs when they work in advance, distribution, etc. of other libraries. Today, there is no other central supply to everyone in the same way; this is still the task of the municipality. As for the fact that we have to go on with this, yes, how you will promote digital culture in digital year, otherwise if these computers are supposed to be. I was also talking about big ideas here that libraries could be such polyfunctional places where you can also engage in entrepreneurship. Of course, they must have both Internet access and computers. There is an opportunity to discuss, for example, the creation of a possible new measure in cultural capital, where, following a change in excise duties last year, the receipts are once again quite good. After all, there has been a measure to support ore cinemas and other small cinemas, and perhaps a library measure could also be created centrally. The Cultural Endowment could have such a fund to help it do so. But in general, it is the task of the local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U544	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U545	Good Chairman! Good minister! I'm sure you've read Peeter Lauritsa's writing "Demolition in the Forest and Humanities," and I think you've even expressed an opinion on it on social media. It is, in my opinion, a very sharp and accurate writing of one person who is aching for the heart because of Estonia. He, too, is talking about the sacred places that have already been mentioned here, but he ends up with an important subject. I'd like to read it. In short, the point is that we, as conservatives, should keep the Estonian language and culture, and that should be a daily thing to stand up for. I have to admit, it was quite painful for me to read. How Would You Answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U546	I'd say we're standing. Now I would like to say that we need to be consistent. It is also the responsibility of certain decisions, not of the wrong side, but of principle. If you say that change is needed now and Conservatives, for example, have to do something, then the instruments that can do it are not liberal, but are also beautifully conservative. On the one hand, it cannot be said that hands away from our authorities, politicians must do nothing, we must not know what is going on in our committees, and the committees must be completely neutrally independent, and at the same time call for certain decisions. At the moment, it is the case that, for example, in the case of research funding or other decisions, we have long-term effects on these mechanisms. I was just talking about the necessary care for indigenous culture and language. We are taking some measures, taking a course and starting to value it first in all areas of life. If we have a constitutional obligation to hold the Estonian language and culture, this must be an important argument for all our decisions, including economic policy decisions. But it's gonna take some time. In general, I agree, in this case we think the same way with the writer. Well, while the Conservatives need to be beaten, right, he's back in liberal positions. But you can't get conservative tables from the liberal sawmill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U547	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U548	Thank you for the floor. Good minister! The chapter of this review of the creative industries states that although all the targets were met for euro money, for some reason the performance fund still failed to reach an agreement that additional funds would have come from it. This means that there is a risk that some support for creative development activities will have to be completed next year. Could you explain a little bit more about what it really means? What activities are left out, and how big is this potential blast?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U549	Here I have to say, unfortunately and luckily. Unfortunately, this report has been made a little while ago so that it can be printed, and so on. Fortunately, the time has moved on, and this is now a measure on which we have reached a satisfactory agreement with other ministries: we will have a lead in our activities to date, and we will retain these measures as well. And integration is the same. One problem, however, is that it now seems that European money is going to go all the way to green principles and transport. Everything will be very different in the future and there will be little money left for ordinary measures. One of the measures that we are currently at risk is a measure to preserve the heritage of regional centres, which, in addition to the central squares, can also fix historic houses and streets. In implementing this, we have not got the thick end, it is in the hands of the Minister for Regional Affairs and other ministers. They say that culture is kept as much as local governments are willing to hold. It would be safe if this measure were directly to be decided by the Ministry of Culture and the heritageists. But as far as the creative industries are concerned, my officials also reassured me that at their level the matter is now clear. I have an appointment with the Minister of Economic Affairs anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U550	Thank you, Minister. No more questions for you. Thank you! Let's go to the negotiations. Representatives of the political groups may take the floor and the speeches may take three plus five minutes. First, please speak on behalf of the Aadu Black Central Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U551	Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, cultural policy is an issue that you could talk about very much longer and even during the day, not just at night. But under today's circumstances, I will try to limit myself to the most important remarks, all the more so since we have been discussing these issues in the Committee on Culture over the years. The first observation I would like to make is a comparison over the years. You know, historians no longer have all sorts of methods - Jaak can confirm that. There has remained a historical-comparative method, which is the most important and which is recognised everywhere in the world. As one of the dinosaurs of the Riigikogu, I can say that the most sympathetic thing for me is that the Ministry of Culture has become much broader, more meaningful both during the time of Indrek Saare and Tõnis Lukas. I remember the time when a dozen years ago we were discussing whether the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Culture should be put together because they sometimes duplicate each other, and sometimes there are competence disputes. At the moment, I am not ashamed to say it again, a project developed by both Indrek Saar and Tõnis Lukas. This is the renovation of the same national library, which has shown that, despite the fact that it is a national archive and a national library, cooperation is very sympathetic. And it's kind of a sympathetic state-manly approach. I have seen it very closely because I myself was the chairman of the National Library Council and vice-chairman of the Archives Council, and I also tried to contribute to these things. It is also very sympathetic that, at some point, when it was accused that cultural policy was somehow one-sided, some liked that there were delicacies and folk dances, but someone wanted something wider, then there is now both depth and width. And in my opinion, its indicators are the creation of the Estonian-Finnish Cultural Fund and exactly the establishment of the Baltic Cultural Fund. I'm terribly grateful for one thing. I remember when we were driving on a plane and I told you about the big idea to be made in the Baltic Assembly, and when we landed, Indrek's speech came that he was already in Valga, introduced this idea to the Latvian president, by the way, he was one of its initiators when he was still president of the Baltic Assembly, and it got rumbled. True, it also happened that, later in some negotiations, a little bit of the original idea of the starting principles was retreated to the depths I am not going to, because it was said that Latvia's Mrs Melbarde thought differently. But these are details. Now you can also say exactly just that I hope that we are still going towards life and not death, that very many topics will persist through the ages. Even the same tape fees we've been talking about here, I don't see the initiator at the moment, which the previous composition tried to implement. But not everything goes so fast. I welcome the very deep and meaningful cooperation that the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu and the Ministry had when discussing the law on heritage conservation. It can be said that the new law on heritage protection, which has also been subject to many criticisms, is a whole new generation, a new vision. It has been realized that around the sacrificial stone, the sheep can still bite the grass, and he does not eat the stone. The same can be said of the problems of access to heritage objects. Fortunately, a cultural object that no one can access is no longer conceivable. At the same time, it is clear that all the critical notes I hear from the Riigikogu are very serious and important. We all share these thoughts. And a lot of the criticism that's come from arguing about culture comes back to, do you know where it is? It comes back to the recognition that cultural policy will never be completed. You can always do better and the main lever that makes it possible to fix something, even in heritage protection, is money. Heritage measures are just as good as we have enough money. If we're a little richer, we can do more. Interestingly, when we talk about culture, the members of the Riigikogu are not only the Committee on Culture, they are all in favour of cultural belief at all. If there is a budget dispute, this support will be much less.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U552	Would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U553	If I could get a minute more.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U554	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U555	Thank you. What I want to say is that at times it seems to me that although all these issues have also been discussed in the Committee on Culture, where there are representatives of all the political groups, much of this information has not reached the Riigikogu. I do not know if there should be a specific cultural conference in some kind of free format, where ideas can also be gathered from people who are not members of the Committee on Culture. At least the ambassadors would know what's good and what's bad. Finally, thank you very much to the Ministry. With the money they've been given, they've done a hell of a lot of good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U556	Jaak on behalf of the White EKRE Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U557	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Minister of Culture! Careful technical staff and ladies and gentlemen. I do not have the illusion that you would like to listen to my important presentation for a very long time, so I will try to limit myself to a few short points. Culture is known to be defined quite differently. I prefer to understand culture in a broader sense: as a society's way of life, values, attitudes, experiences, symbols, institutions and human relationships. Samuel Phillips Huntington has analysed the results of politics in different societies and has come to the conclusion that culture, in particular, rather than politics, determines the success of society. And that also means that we, who are making politics in this Parliament, are actually the products of our Estonian culture and the quality of our policies and, therefore, the success of society depends on how high quality products we are. I will further stress, in the light of Huntington's conclusions, that we can still determine the success of society in politics only in one part, and obviously in a smaller part, not to say, in a very small part. What we can do here, what policies are possible and what kind of congestion is determined not by us, but by our culture. The same policy is not suitable for all societies as long as the culture of these societies is different. The pursuit of unification of different cultures is one of the reasons why empires have been created, as well as the reason why empires have collapsed. And they will continue to fall, if empires are recreated, no matter what they do for a purpose or under a name. The most prosperous culture is created by a free man and a free nation. And so it makes sense that freedom is pursued both by people and by nations. Freedom can be both external and internal, i.e. externally the independence of the state and internally the right of the individual to be who he really is. And that also means freedom from political irregularities and the freedom to realise their values in politics. Here again, I would like to take this opportunity to do as Roman Senator Cato did, who repeated one sentence at the end of each speech. I am not repeating this sentence of his name, namely that Carthage must be destroyed, but I am repeating the idea that, as politicians, we can realise the freedom of our society and empower our political culture and culture as a whole by creating opportunities for popular initiative and referendum. So the framework of our cultural policy also dictates to us the culture of our society. The Minister noted that our cultural policy aims to shape a society that values creativity by preserving and promoting Estonian national identity by exploring, storing and transferring cultural memory and creating favourable conditions for the development and participation in culture of a vibrant, open and diverse cultural space. There's a lot of variables in this target setup. Can I have a minute and a half?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U558	Please, but three minutes is possible!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U559	Creativity, national identity, as well as openness and diversity and all these values mentioned by the Minister are in themselves noble qualities, but it depends on the proportions in which we try to implement them in our policy making. If the proportions get out of hand, that is, not right for our society, then we've made a bad policy. EKRE, as a national party, and we think that, in fact, the Estonian national identity is the most important element in this cultural policy formula. And now I'm really drivin' towards the end. I quote August Annist's idea from 1923: 'The goal of nationalism must be to become culturally rich for every member of the nation. " However, I will conclude by saying that openness and diversity cannot be goals in themselves, but they are methods that hold and develop the Estonian national identity and each of us separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U560	Indrek Saar, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U561	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I am a little sorry, however, that planning this work has gone so far that we are discussing this important issue at this hour. The governing board of the Riigikogu could have thought a little about planning this week, but tomorrow we have a completely free day. Perhaps there would have been more reasonable times for this very important discussion and review. But I now come to the presentation by the Minister and the review of the fulfilment of the fundamentals of cultural policy. First of all, my great recognition that, despite budgetary pressure, which, like all ministries, has descended on the Ministry of Culture, very many important activities are continuing and some of them have gained new momentum. Let's talk about progress with choir and dance directors' salaries. It is meant to be how these people's work would be rewarded and this tradition would continue. The accessibility task force already mentioned above also shows that we are systematically dealing with these matters with the participation of the Ministry of Culture. Next: the competence centre for spatial creation, which is in the planning process for us to think wisely about our daily space, as well as the activities of heritage conservation reform, continued implementation. Continuation of the farm architecture support programme and, in fact, the duplication of its resources. Action on major international events, artist's and writer's wages. As the Minister has confirmed, this is going to lead to a full cycle, a "five plus five" every year from next year. The positive inertia of the Presidency and the 'Republic of Estonia 100' programme is also clearly visible: many of the things that started in their course continue in one form or another. And, of course, great recognition for the Estonian National Library and the Estonian National Broadcasting investments! However, there are some concerns. A good public space is, of course, above all a regional policy issue, which should rather be a matter for the Minister of Public Administration, but from time to time, as my experience confirms, public administration and other ministers must be pushed to take this as seriously as possible. The key keys to our regional development are certainly how we plan the surrounding space, how we plan our small towns, how we adapt to the changing circumstances of population relocation. I very much hope that this programme will continue and that resources will be found for this. I was pleased to hear that, as far as euro funds are concerned to promote both the creative industries and cultural diversity, there are fresh developments, solutions have been found. I very much hope that these very thorough and years of analysis by the Ministry of Social Affairs concerning the social guarantees of creators will now really propose some solutions with which to proceed. In fact, it's not just the creatives who expect it, it's more and more people who expect it. The nature of the work is changing very quickly, and the creatives may be pioneering to some extent, as in many other areas. The nature of creative work has long been somewhat different. And these solutions, as a society, are needed in a wider sense. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U562	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U563	Of course, the law on the establishment of a show seems to be such a thing that maybe the current minister will have to pass it on to the next minister. I mean, you gotta keep working on the act of a show agency. And how would we know that it is still on the agenda if there were no fundamentals of cultural policy. So I hope that no matter how these development plans are redesigned, the tradition that the minister comes here and gives an overview of what is happening in our cultural field once a year remains in the future. I think that this is necessary for the Riigikogu and, on the other hand, not only for the Minister, but also for the Ministry, to some extent discipline or motivation when this debate is held systematically in the Riigikogu. But one thing I'm really sorry about. I think the government dropped by the bar in this regard, and I have to be critical of the Minister. It's about wages. One step was not taken. During the last four years, we took quite a few steps towards this goal, which was set out in the fundamentals of cultural policy: by 2020, a cultural worker with a higher education will reach the minimum of Estonia's average salary. I am very sorry that this step has not been taken and, in fact, a big step is being taken back this year. The Minister has read it out so well, but I must reiterate that 'due to the possibilities of the state budget and the need to implement a number of important national goals of the Government of the Republic, the level of wage increases for the following year will be slightly lower than in the last few years'. I dare say at this point that this is a bit too much artistic exaggeration. To say 'little lower' at 2.5% in a context where this year's projected wage increase is more than 5%, that is to say more than twice as much as this year. If we look at the rise of the last four years, they were 15-20% in the middle, to be specific, 13% last year, 22% in the year before last. To say 2.5% per "small lower" is not quite correct. I'm sorry that this close to purpose fell down. However, I hope that we will be able to come back to this in the years to come. But in the end, this report and the Minister's presentation gave me the belief that Estonian culture continues to be world-class, broad-based, diverse and free. I hope that this system, where the so-called Tallinn dilemmas make decisions on how to distribute money in cultural policy, will also remain. And that political dilemmas will not make cultural policy decisions according to their taste. For the fact that the Minister has managed to keep it that way so far, I commend him and wish him the strength for the future. The issue of culture is certainly also a somewhat new cultural area for today's government. I hope that this will not affect the Estonian cultural space in general. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-29_U564	Thank you. For a little bit of clarification: the Bureau did indeed consider moving this point to Thursday, but unfortunately the Minister will not be able to come tomorrow. Does the Minister still have a wish to speak? He's right. No, I don't. Thank you. As usual, the Riigikogu will not take a decision to close the debate. I declare the debate on this item closed.
