ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U1	Morning, ladies and gentlemen. Please take up our position and start the 5th working week Thursday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to pass on enquiries and drafts. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U2	Mr. Vice-Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Eesti Energia recently acquired Tootsi wind farm immovable property and Eesti Energia believes that they have the right to ask for renewable energy support for Tootsi wind farm before 2017. According to the old support scheme, it is estimated that Eesti Energia should receive €240.300 million of renewable energy subsidies over the next 12 years. However, all this would add to the electricity prices of people and businesses and increase and prolong the costly period of renewable energy charges for them. So, the Social Democrats are proposing to prevent an increase in electricity prices and this can be done by the government, judging that Eesti Energia does not ask people for 300 million euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U3	Thank you very much. There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. I have accepted one document, and it will be processed as prescribed by the law. We have a message. Today, at the end of the plenary session, there will be a meeting in this Chamber to set up the Defence League Support Group, convened by Henn Põljaas. Now, presence control, please! 78 members of the Riigikogu are present, 23 are missing. We can start the hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U4	On today's agenda, we have a debate on a key national issue, 'The Forest in a Changing Climate', initiated by the Committee on the Environment. In order to discuss this, according to the proposal of the Committee on the Environment and to § 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act, the Executive Board has appointed the following procedure. First, Erki Savisaare, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, will present a presentation for up to 10 minutes and questions and answers will also be up to 10 minutes. Then Taivo Denks, Head of Forest Department of the Environmental Agency, will perform for up to 20 minutes and questions and answers for up to 20 minutes again. This will be followed by a presentation by Rein Drenkhan, the Associate Professor of Forest Pathology at the Estonian University of Life Sciences, for up to 20 minutes, plus questions and answers for up to 20 minutes. Finally, the word is spoken at the senior researcher in botany at the Institute of Natural Sciences and Science of the University of Tartu, Aveliina Helmil, for up to 20 minutes and questions-answers for up to 20 minutes again. A member of the Riigikogu may submit a total of up to two questions to the rapporteurs, followed by negotiations. Speakers may be members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups. At the request of the Committee on the Environment, I propose that the Riigikogu first speak to the representatives of the political groups and then to the members of the Riigikogu. The Government of the Republic and the Chancellor of Justice also have the right to speak. The Riigikogu will not take a decision to close the discussion. The Committee on the Environment has proposed to extend the session until the agenda item is exhausted, if necessary, but no longer than 14 p.m. This proposal will be put to the vote by the Bureau as the time comes. But now we can begin to deal with the agenda for today's sitting. I would like to ask Erki Savisaare, Chairman of the Environment Commission, to wait here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! All those interested in the forest who follow this debate! Forest-related issues are constantly under the attention of the Committee on the Environment, and in addition to discussions within the Commission, we have been discussing forest-related issues together with other committees, public sessions and in the forest during these ten months. We must all pay particular attention to what is happening in Estonia's forests with regard to climate change, because climate change inevitably affects our natural environment. If farmers are able to react quickly to change, changing crops and farming methods, even every year, forest decisions will only work for decades. As a result, we need to look beyond today into the distant future of forest discussions, not only in 2030 or 2050, but even further. The main questions we could all ask ourselves are as follows. First, what forest do we want to see in 20, 50, or 100 years? Secondly, what role does the forest play in meeting climate objectives? And third, what is the reasonable balance between biodiversity and forestry? For some time now, the forestry development plan has been being prepared, and I very much hope that among the other details it will also provide answers to the questions that have just been mentioned. Sustainable forestry means using forests in such a way and to the extent that it ensures maximum biodiversity, productivity, including maximum carbon sequestration, renewal capacity and viability, and enables forests to continue to perform ecological, economic and social functions at local, national and global levels. In a changing climate, effective forest renewal is one of the foundations of sustainable forest management. This year, 100 years will pass from the day when the academic forest education in the native language was started at the University of Tartu. It is sad to note that investments in forest sciences have decreased in recent decades, and this situation certainly needs to be improved. In Estonia, the forest land is 51.4%, but the forest area covered with trees is even more. The forest area in Estonia has steadily increased. After World War II, there were 1.4 million hectares of forest land in Estonia, by the time of regaining independence, the forest land was already 1.9 million hectares, and today we have reached 2.4 million hectares. Perhaps we have 40% more forest land today than after the weather war or 22% more than at the time of regaining independence. The area of protected forest has also increased year after year, and today we have about a quarter of the forest protected, so we have protected 41% of the forest that survived the war. Estonia is one of Europe's largest forestguards. We have more forests in Liechtenstein, Italy and Finland under strict protection. Forest land is divided more or less equally between the state and private forest owners, of which 3/5 are natural persons. There are 1.8 hectares of forest, or about 4000 trees, per person in Estonia. Today, we have mostly pines, birches and trees in the forest, but will this be the case in the longer term? Can changes in the climate make a significant difference to our forest community and what will be the impact on protected forests? The new species have been discussed more in the case of the economic forest, but perhaps the climate will be more favourable for oaks, for example, in the future. Those topics will be opened today by Taivo Denks, Head of the Forest Department of the Environmental Agency, who will give an overview of the current state of our forests, Rein Drenkhan, Associate Professor of Forest Pathology at the Estonian University of Life Sciences, will discuss what changes take place in the forest due to climate change and what could be done to mitigate climate change, and Senior Research Fellow at the Institute of Ecology and Earth Sciences, Aveliina Helm, will discuss the impact of climate change on biodiversity. In conclusion, forestry and forests play an important role in mitigating climate change, but the forest itself must also adapt to climate change. We need to agree on the importance of forest in the future, both for the economy and for meeting climate objectives. The international community is of the opinion that sustainable forest management will help to maintain and increase carbon stocks in organic matter and soil, including storage of carbon in wood products and substitution effects. Wood can replace more carbon intensive and non-renewable resources in consumption. Perhaps if we set climate change mitigation targets for forestry, we cannot focus solely on maximising carbon storage by going to the extremes it would mean zero cutting or maximum carbon sequestration in any randomly selected year. For example, if we want to maximise carbon sequestration by 2050, felled woods should be cut right now and forest productivity increased through certain economic practices, including drainage and fertilisation. To go to the extremes of both strategies will have adverse effects on both the environment and other areas. In order to cope with climate change, stability and a long-term vision are needed to plan, coordinate and implement activities in the short and long term, taking into account the current state of our forests. I wish people in this hall, as well as Estonia as a whole, balance in discussing the forest and the wisdom in making decisions. I hope there will be a meaningful debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U6	Thank you very much for the waitress. Members of the Riigikogu also have questions, at least one question. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U7	Thank you very much. Thank you, Erki, for this presentation. Here's my question. In your report, you pointed out a lot of positive statistics: there are more woodland than there was at the time of re-independence, there are more protected forests than there have been before. At the same time, many, say, forest protection activists, including scientists, experts, point out that they do not believe these numbers or that they believe that the situation is moving in the direction of deterioration. My question is this: where does this conflict come from? It is expected that we should have clear national statistics and an overview of the state of our forests. How is it possible that there are different groups in Estonian society whose perception of the forest situation and the same attitude to these data are so different?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U8	Fighting faith is difficult. If a person believes, he believes, and in that case, maybe the arguments don't matter. The following rapporteur will probably give a better overview of the statistical aspects and measurements of the forest. The measurements shall be carried out on a continuous basis and shall be based on those figures. We have forests divided into two: we have protected forests and economic forests. I think it is entirely wrong to assume that the economic forest uses the same forest management methods that are used in protected forests. So if we're dealing with an economic forest, that's the second goal. Indeed, this goal is to benefit from forest cultivation. If we are dealing with protected forests, the aim is to preserve biodiversity there, to preserve its natural diversity. And they need to know the difference. Of course, all foresters, as well as foresters, must comply with Estonian law. If the defenders feel that someone is wrong about the law, they have the full right to turn to our security authorities and draw attention to it. If they're wrong, they'll be punished.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U9	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U10	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good chairman of the committee! What is your view, whether this felling volume, which is the subject of a large discussion and which may have caused the most emotions that were discussed here, should be treated as such a'separate number' in the forestry development plan that looks to the future? Today, it was also possible to read in the media a report on the link between the future felling volume and precisely the climate target. Maybe you'd like to comment on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U11	Thank you. With regard to this volume, the question that has not been answered to me is why we always have to have more forest growth than felling each year. What is its longer purpose? If our goal is to grow the forested area as big as possible, just as we have grown every year, yes, that is the right goal. If our aim is to maintain this forest area, leave room for agriculture and other areas of land use, then at some point these volumes must be defined differently. I think it makes sense to set some limit values, as we have when using all natural resources, including mineral resources. But there could be some sort of methodology for this real volume, on the basis of which we consider it to be a reasonable volume in this particular region or in Estonia as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U12	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I ask in this context that, as we know, the forest is a good carbon sink. But the question is, how many years old or how old forest will bind carbon and when this goal or this feasibility will disappear. Does the forest development plan take into account how it relates to meeting climate objectives?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U14	Thank you. Of course, all plants are binding carbon, and in addition to the carbon content of the atmosphere, an interesting measure of how green our planet is will be monitored. Interestingly, carbon content and greenness are very well correlated. Our planet is increasingly greener and indeed, the plants grow very well. Now, the carbon capture capacity of the forest is clearly linked to the age of the forest. This can be compared, for example, to how much a person can eat. If she's a child, the forest is young, then she eats less than when she's an adult, full-life, middle-aged. The ability to eat is reduced again when people get older and the need for food decreases. The same is true of the forest: if we have very old forests, they will no longer bind so much carbon. And like I said, if we want to maximize the amount of carbon we have in the forest, then we really shouldn't chop at all, we should just grow as much as we can. Then he gets to some kind of maximum and stops there. But if we want the binding to be continuous and the forest takes some amount of carbon out of the atmosphere every year, then we need to keep the forest in this steady active growth phase. So it is a question of balance in which direction we want to go in our forest management. If we look at national targets for climate neutrality, of course there has been a certain role for the forest, because it is clear that we are unable to bring carbon emissions to zero in other areas of life. In any case, some kind of emission stays on the basis of a moment of knowledge, and in order to balance it, it is the forest that could bind carbon so that we can balance it to zero.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U15	Thank you. Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U16	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress, thank you for your presentation. I have this question: would you be so good as to explain to me what this forest is, what we are talking about today, to broaden my horizons? What exactly does that belong to?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U17	Thank you. That is a very good question, because there are many of these opinions. From a statistical point of view, the next waitress certainly says that how high and large these trees must be in order for the land to be included in the forest. But this is how I would talk about the forest if the increase was at least 1 cubic metre per hectare.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U18	Thank you, dear waitress. No more questions for you. Now we ask for the next waitress of the remote control, Head of the Forest Department of the Environmental Agency, Taivo Denks. Please! You have 20 minutes for a report and 20 minutes for questions and answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U19	Dear Chairman, Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Thank you for inviting me here to open up this subject a little more. The Chairman of the Committee on the Environment has already spoken a lot for me, but I'll try to get into these numbers a little bit more and talk about what's back there. Why the Environment Agency? We are a body managed by the Ministry of the Environment, which is why we receive and provide independent assessments of the state of the environment, carry out different surveys not only of forest monitoring, but also of wildlife monitoring, meteorological and hydrological monitoring, etc., and we collect environmental data that create the prerequisites for balanced decision-making in policy-making, business and everyday life for ordinary citizens. One such measurement we do is statistical forest inventory. In the course of this exercise, about 5500-6000 samples are measured each year and distributed evenly across Estonia. There are 800-metre side-length tracts, there are 16 samples on each side of the track, and there are 370 such tracts on the Estonian side. This is a sample survey that can monitor objective forest dynamics in the country as a whole. The main task is to describe forests and changes in forests, including a logging survey. This is not only done in Estonia, but is actually done on the basis of a very similar methodology throughout Europe and also in some parts of the world. To compare, for example, with some of our neighbouring countries, Switzerland is also described here as a comparison of the highest density of our plots, with the lowest number of hectares per plot compared to other countries. A pan-European network has been set up to compare the results of national statistical forest inspections with one another, to harmonise them. Our statistical forest inventory, or SMI, is 20 years old. With our 20-year-old SMI, Europe has no place in the first place, and Sweden and Norway have been carrying out such an inventory for a hundred years. Now, moving closer to the numbers we have measured, then, as the Chairman of the Environment Committee has already said, more than half of Estonia's land is covered with forest. The Forest Act sets out the definition of forest and forest land. In the case of forest land, there are two ways to calculate this: it is either a piece of land that has been planted as forest land in a land registry, or a plot of land with an area of at least 0,1 hectares and a height of at least 1,3 metres of trees growing and at least 30% of the tree crowns. According to the ownership form, we have quite precisely half of the state and private forest land: 51.4% are in state possession and just under half are private owners, 27.7% are owned by natural persons and 20.1% by legal persons. The main tree species we have are pine, birch and spruce. We have a total of 2.33 million hectares of forest land, half of which is covered by coniferous trees and half by the majority of the deciduous trees. If we count the forest reserve, the conifer trees will be even more than 55%. In total, we have a forest reserve of 480 million cubic metres according to 2018 data. On average, most tree species are scattered around 2/3. This calculation is not based on mere stains. If the pine is 36%, that doesn't mean we have 36% of forests that only grow pine. For example, in spruce we have a spruce on average 2/3, plus 14% birch, 8% pine and 5% alder. The cleanest we have are the pine trees, there's about 71% of the pine pine. We can conclude from this 20-year statistical forest inventory period that if we take the year 2000 or 1999, when the statistical forest inventory started, we will have an increase in forest reserves compared to that period. The starting point of this graph is 1942, but until the beginning of the SMI, the data was based on forest management. This is a slightly different method, and therefore this jump is also on this graph. Between 1994 and 2000, the methodology was amended, the measurement became more accurate. The first inventory completed in 2000 showed that, in fact, there is more forest land in Estonia than it was supposed to be. The average volume of one hectare has also increased significantly: in 1958, the average margin was estimated at 103 cubic metres per hectare, in 2000 at 204 cubic metres per hectare and in 2018 at 223 cubic metres per hectare. When we talk about the age at which our forests are of age, this graph shows you that the age distribution of spruce is relatively uniform, but among the pine forests and cones there are the most middle-aged forests here you can see such sharp vertices. This is most certainly due to the fact that the 1960s. In the 1990's, large afforestation of agricultural land took place. One indicator, which has also increased during this 20-year period, is the number of dead wood in the forest. This will certainly help to develop and increase natural diversity. Dead wood consists of dried trees, broken trees, or flat wood. In the last two periods, its quantity has stabilised, but it is much more than 20 years ago. We have different categories of protection in the forest: there are strictly protected forests, there are economic restricted forests and there are no economic restrictions. There's about a quarter of the protected forests, as I said. Highly protected forests include, for example, valuable habitats, targeted conservation zones, nature reserves, and habitats of the first category of protected species and habitats of plant species. These are forests where there is no economic activity, there is no cutting. Forests with economic constraints are forests where some economic activity is possible, in some respects felling is permitted, for example on reduced ceilings. These are restricted zones for protected areas, storage areas, forests in the NATURA 2000 Habitats Directive. And how do we position in Europe? We're in fourth place from our strict protection percentage. Above us, as has already been said, only Liechtenstein, Italy and Finland, so the situation is quite good in this respect. Now let's talk about managed forests. We saw that in all the woods, coniferous trees were about halfway through the trees, while in the managed land they were slightly reduced, or there are just a little more leaves than coniferous trees. On the other hand, the situation is quite similar to that of the whole forest land, i.e. the conifer trees are somewhat more than the leaf trees. In total, we have 407 million cubic metres in the forest we manage. When we talk about the age distribution of managed forests, about a quarter of them are already felled. If we add to them 12% of the ripening forests in ten years, we can say that we have about 37% of the forest that can be cut in 30 years. Therefore, it can be assumed that the currently slightly higher felling volume is also due to this. The age distribution is slightly different by tree species because the age of maturity varies. It is not meant here for mature forests, for all species of trees the same old forests. For example, in the case of pine trees, the average age of maturity is 90 to 100 years, while in the case of hammers, for example, 30, 40 or 50 years, depending on the bonite, the growing conditions. We can say that the volume of felling has stabilised in recent years. It has fluctuated quite a bit over the years, compared to 2008, it is now three times larger. The red line in the graph shows what we've measured in 20 years of statistical forest inventory. However, since the statistical forest inventory methodology is such that the data is obtained with a time shift, for example, we now have the latest felling data for 2017, and we will soon receive data for 2018, so as to obtain reliable information a little earlier, we have made an expert review every year in the Environmental Agency since 2007, based on the submitted felling documents and on the map of clear cutting areas from the Tartu Observatory, the map layer. According to this, over the years, he has been pretty well matched by the SMI's result, so it usually gives us a cutting estimate for the previous year by the beginning of April. It can be said that in private forests legal persons cut off much more intensively than natural persons, but there is hope that if ownership does not change if natural persons do not sell their forests to legal persons on a massive scale, there will be no major changes in the volume of felling. This, of course, depends on the situation of the market, the weather and many other things. These top lines on this graph are the increment lines: green is the total increment and yellow is the increment of the managed forest. It is bad to compare the growth and cutting volume of the same current year, because we are not cutting the increase that we are going to have this year. So this fact should be looked at over a much longer period. Now there's a slide here about what we might be facing in the future. The Forest and Climate Change report published yesterday also addressed this issue. There are three different lines. The top line of the top line of the stock even slightly grows in the case of the reserve, is a line of such a homogeneous felling, a line of even felling volume that is cut as much as possible during the whole harvesting cycle. The average line is calculated on the basis of the accounting line, which means that it has been taken into account for such a medium term, i.e. for the next 30 years possible felling volumes. And the bottom line denotes the cutting of maturity, i.e. it's calculated that everything that's ripened is cut in ten years. But even with this last option, it can be seen that in decades' time, the forest reserves will grow significantly again. Now, here is also a graph for the example of conifers, which shows the current state and the predicted age distribution after 50 years and after 100 years. This is only one possible scenario and could change significantly due to the actual felling volume of the next ten years. You can see from the graph that the situation is relatively stable now, but 50 years later, a sharp peak has emerged, and we have many middle-aged forests. The amount of felling calculated on the basis of the accounting log is taken as the basis. Let's finally talk about what LULUCF is. What's behind the abbreviation? Land use, its change and forestry. In this case, the anthropogenic effects on greenhouse gases shall be taken into account and the binding and emission of non-human genders shall not be taken into account. Emissions have been monitored in the European Union since 2008. In 2018, the LULUCF Regulation, which set targets for this sector for the first time, was adopted with binding commitments on greenhouse gas emissions and removals. The obligation is for the period from 2021 to 2030, the reference period from 2005 to 2009. Within this period, there are two periods in excess, 2021 to 2025 and 2026 to 2030, for which no-debit rules apply, i.e. the sector's emissions shall not exceed binding. For example, if a Member State chops a certain amount of forest, it must be balanced within the same sector, for example, by planting forests or managing arable land. The exact rules are still under negotiation. There's also an illustrative slide about it. While the total emissions of the sectors are around 20 million tonnes, the LULUCF sector can account for around 10% of this. Transport is also within the energy sector. Now, if we move on to this little green box, or the LULUCF sector, we can see that the only category of land that binds carbon is the forest. Everyone else throws. In addition, timber products have been mentioned here. This means that it is also very important to bring timber products out of the forest that are well used for long-term use, so that binding and carbon storage last longer. Although the role of the forest in balancing carbon emissions is great, the forest cannot cope alone, the forest cannot cope with all that is being emitted into the air in other sectors. Everybody's gotta help. Things need to be better thought out in other sectors as well. Last slide. What should the forest of the future be like? Should he be made up of native species of trees? Should it be able to draw as much carbon into the timber products from there as possible? Should it come from on-site planting material, well-suited to external conditions? Are forests supposed to be mixed forests? I think that the next waitress will answer these questions to a significant extent. So far, we were talking about this part of this slide, which is up in the right corner of these three pictures, but in fact, the forest is not just wood or carbon binding. The forest is an ecosystem. If one part of it is consumed, the whole system will change and it will no longer be possible to guarantee the other benefits that people need. When habitats disappear, there are no more species. When species disappear, there are no services. For the sustainable consumption of all these services, it is very important that the decisions adopted today do not undermine the forest ecosystem as a whole in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U20	Thank you. Members of the Riigikogu have questions for the rapporteur. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U21	Good manager! Good waitress! I've been looking at a schedule that says there's more young and very old forests in the future. Here are three lines: what is the picture today and what is it 2070 and what is it in a hundred years. But there are very opposite numbers in this open space. So are there 20,000 hectares of plains or, on the contrary, 50,000 hectares? What is the real situation now? And a small nuance: how many strictly protected clearings do we have, say, with trees up to 10 years of age?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U22	Thank you. It was on this schedule, yeah, I can move it back, then we can watch. Okay, this is the schedule we're talking about. There's, yeah, that's the line. The current situation is between 40 and 50, this is the current situation. While 30,000 to 35,000 hectares are currently cut in the course of clear cutting a year, this is largely here too. I don't know exactly how many clearings there are in strictly protected areas. There are certainly young forests there, because new areas have also been protected in recent years, given the types of forest that need to be protected. And there are certainly very young forests in there too, because it has been taken into account that these areas are as coherent as possible. The fact that some of these areas are young today may not be bad because we protect them and there is no more economic activity there. In the future, in a hundred years, they'll be old forests. The ones that are now old, they're growing old, the forest doesn't get any younger. In order for us to have different forests protected in a hundred years' time, it is perhaps even good that at present, some of the young forests have remained within protected areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U23	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I was motivated to ask for one very important issue in the world and that is the climate. The question is whether Estonia has even studied how climate change affects the growth of this forest. And if it hasn't been studied, what is your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U25	Thank you. Yeah, it's been studied to some extent. In general, the warmer the climate, the faster the forest grows. Perhaps the next waitress will be able to answer it even a little more closely, but in the big picture, that is the case. [[They're asking for something in the hall.]] You can't say it that clearly. It might be a little dangerous for our current species of trees, because new pests, such as the tree, are coming into warmer climates. It's not actually that unambiguous, but yes, it's positive about the growing conditions of the trees.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U26	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U27	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question concerns indicators of damage to habitats of rare and endangered species. The question itself is: what do you think is the greatest threat to the species diversity of our environment at the moment and how can it be prevented? There are examples, and there are, of course, different guidelines, such as those prepared by the Environmental Board, which contain species-by-species restrictions, conditions and recommendations to be followed for forest management. However, tragic events have happened over and over again in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U28	Thank you. I am sure that the last waitress will speak more fully on this matter. It was a question of how we could prevent the habitats of endangered species being damaged. I guess this set of rules is actually in place, and things like that shouldn't happen. But it is understandable that human error sometimes leads to bad things happening. However, I believe that we have quite well regulated this area. Balance must be maintained. We can't look at the forest as just getting wood. As I said, I also showed this last picture slide in this respect, all of these things must be balanced. We still have a great deal of strictly protected forests in European terms, and I think we have done quite a lot to prevent species being destroyed. One issue is the coherence of forests so that, for example, flying squirrels can move from one habitat to another. They don't really want to go over the ceiling. We'll have to look at the bigger picture, create green corridors like this. There are ways.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U29	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You mentioned that the volume of felling has increased by more than half compared to 2008. What are the reasons for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U31	The reasons why it is now at the level it is, are the market situation, the high proportion of mature forests and the needs of people. The reason why 2008 was so small is that there was a recession at that point, timber prices were low, Russian exports were still available. So, rather, we should look at the reasons why the felling volume was so small, because before that, in 2000 and 2001 it was at about the same level as it is today. This volatility also depends to a large extent on the market situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U32	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, First of all, thank you for your very thorough presentation. The Environmental Agency will certainly have a very good overview of the state of the forest and of the current situation and future views. At the same time, we have a constant debate in society about whether the Estonian forest is good or bad. There are those who say that everything is fine, and there are others who say that it is not so good or it is quite bad. Here's my question for you. Based on your own view or the Environmental Agency's assessment, perhaps you will mention two or three points, which we can be proud of in the case of the Estonian forest, which is good, and perhaps two or three points, which are concerns or challenges for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U34	Thank you. Yes, we have this review as good as I think it is possible. What's good? Well, first of all, we have a lot of forest. We have more than half the area covered with forest. The forest is of a special age, there are all kinds of forests, not only young forests. Under strict protection, we have a high percentage of forest compared to other countries. In my opinion, we have a fairly well-guaranteed multi-faceted use of forest. What's wrong? I don't think there's anything really wrong with that. It is simply the reason why this issue has been well ahead of us in recent years that communication is incomplete. On the one hand. On the other hand, there is such comfort here: people dealing with forests have the knowledge that everything is good, but it is not like it has been communicated outside. In my opinion, the current contradiction has been largely blown up from emotions. Of course, if you drive down the highway and you see a clearcut and you drive a little further and there's a clearcut again, it's gonna hurt your eye. If the fungus forest that's been there since you were born is cut off from behind your house, you're used to it and suddenly it's cut off because it wasn't yours, for example, it was a state forest or a neighbor's forest that the owner decided to take down, then it's emotionally very difficult. But in view of the overall picture, you have to understand that's how it works. If there's an economic forest, that's where they manage it. In order to balance it, we have a part of the forest under protection, and I think there's enough of that kind of forest.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U35	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U36	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I would also like to thank myself for a concise and educational report. My question continues on the subject. You stressed that the Environmental Agency has carried out independent expert analyses of the state of the Estonian forest for nearly 20 years, and I believe that these experts and their data are public. But really, what is the origin of such different visions? I am thinking of the statistics published by many non-profit organisations, nature conservation organisations, which are much more worrying than you pointed out in your report today. What are these different reviews based on?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U37	Thank you. I do not know that there would have been such considerable national statistics on the forest, which would be on better grounds than what is done through statistical forest inventory. In our own assessment, we do not rely on emotions, we measure the forest on a recognised methodology. The SMI methodology has also not been contested by those parties that disagree with the "forest situation'. We can only rely on the fact that, in my opinion, these opposite views are still based on some kind of place. For example, if a tourist promoter has some sort of woodwork that he has still used in his activities, his resentment is of course understandable. But we look at this nationwide, general state and I think it's a good thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U38	Tiit Kala, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In Europe, Germany and the Czech Republic, there is extensive damage to the spruce-cream cock, and we have more and more of these damage. My question is this: if these damage occurs in our protected areas, the vermin do not know the limits of the protected area, then how should we behave?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U40	Thank you. It is already up to the legislator. We have problems with the fact that these damage can be eliminated quite easily outside the protected area, but in protected areas where, unfortunately, economic activity is prohibited, it is difficult to cope with it. Indeed it is. I don't have any medicine for that right now. Fortunately, our situation is not as bad as that of the Czechs, but if the climate gets warmer, this risk may increase for us. Rein Drenkhan will probably give you a little more information about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U41	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, dear waitress, for a very constructive presentation. My question goes to this category that, as I understand it, there is also a proper forest inventory in Estonia, but reports from the Stockholm Environmental Institute are often used. I would ask this question: do we not have sufficient analysis in Estonia, studies so that we can rely on them? Why do we have to take these tests somewhere else? What is this question here? And the second question: why do you use observatory cards, not Earth Board cards?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U43	Thank you. First of all, I can't tell you why other tests are sometimes used. These analyses of the Stockholm Environmental Institute, which are used, are also largely carried out in Estonia, Tallinn. But I guess that's what anyone who can handle it can analyze. The results may be different. I guess these different analyses are used according to how it is needed. We can't force anyone to use our inventory and our analysis. If someone wants to analyze themselves and if the data is available and our data is available, then the analysis cannot be prohibited. Why do we use the map of the Tartu Observatory? I owe you an answer right now. I don't know what that historical reason might be, but somehow he's gone like this. This card has been reliable and there is no reason to change it. I can't tell by heart why it's been like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U44	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U45	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, Thank you very much for your interesting presentation. It was very good to see statistics, which are of course also available on the website of the Ministry of the Environment. I want to ask you that, despite the fact that forest statistics are available to everyone, I received an Estonian forest manifesto yesterday, which states that Estonian forests are in danger and need saving. A joint demonstration will also be organised for this purpose. Why do you think people still feel that if about 1% of forested land is cut open, then deforestation will take place? I myself come from Kihnu, and it is true that we are fighting to preserve landscapes and semi-natural communities and species diversity by preventing the forest and bush from growing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U46	Thank you. As I said before, this is an emotional issue. The fights are a little different: who fights for less to be cut, who fights for not to be cut at all, who fights for not making clear cutting. It depends on whose eye is pleasant and unpleasant. It seems to me that, to a large extent, this fight is currently taking place on this very ground. If a forest has been cut down near someone's home, or if you just drive from Tallinn to Tartu and count the number of clear cutting sites along the road or such open areas, this is what is causing this fight. We can talk about the soil we have measured in the forest all over Estonia. If we go further off the road, we'll see there's plenty of forest left. The picture that appears on the highway is probably like this because of the winters of these last few years. Anyone can, it brings its felling to the side of the road where it is possible to get the timber and haul it away. On the one hand, this is why felling has been concentrated near the roads in recent years. On the other hand, in the state forest, for example, it is possible to set up fellings, to bring together a single area in order to make it more economical. You don't have to move the technique far away, from one place to another, but you can do as much of the authorised cutting in one area as possible at once. This, too, is one of the reasons that, in recent years, this emotional opposition to felling has been greater in some places. But it's all right, biodiversity must be preserved.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U47	Thank you. The time for questions and answers is running out, so the following questions will come to the next rapporteurs. Thank you, dear waitress. We will now listen to the next presentation, and this is the presentation by Rein Drenkhan, the Associate Professor of Forest Pathology at the Estonian University of Life Sciences. There are up to 20 minutes for the presentation and 20 minutes for questions and answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U48	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll tell you about the forest and the health of the forest. I will try to talk as much about facts and numbers as possible. I will address the following issues: what climate change essentially means for forestry; how climate change is linked to diseases and pests; how diseases affect wood resources; what to do to mitigate climate change and how it relates to forestry. One quite recently published piece contains a graph that illustrates how the attacks of diseases and pathogens on the forest grow or become more intense as climate change increases. The damage is also more common and more frequent. The overall temperature increase has been predicted. Forecasts show that by the end of the century we will have a temperature similar to that in Central Europe. The winters are getting warmer, we can already see it, we can feel it on our own, the drought summers are coming more often, the storms are more. This is the result of climate change and obviously a reality that needs to be taken into account. Have climate change really taken place in Estonia? Here's one of those letter charts I've shown quite often before, but I'll show you. On one side of the graph, you will see the years of 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1. The columns describe the calendar months between January and December, and these cells show the temperature difference compared to the long-term average. White is a cell that shows that the temperature is similar to the long-term average, red is a warmer, yellow is even warmer, blue is colder and dark blue is significantly colder than the long-term average. If we look at the next period, 1988-2009, or nearer by now, we will see that the picture is different. Change is obvious, climate change is a reality. As a forest pathologist, I'm more interested in what extreme happens. Warming is one thing, but the other is that we see that in the meantime there is a relatively stable period and then all of a sudden there is a relatively rapid drop in temperature or vice versa, a sudden increase in temperature. That is what is actually stressing the trees, and of course the trees are more susceptible to diseases. What do diseases and pests mean for forestry? Clearly, this is also demonstrated by a number of studies, that the stains damaged by pest activity and diseases emit more carbon than they bind. A dead tree can't bind carbon. Diseases and pests reduce the growth of trees earlier was a question here. We have an era in which many invasive alien species move to us. One alien pathogen caused island death and therefore about 500 hectares of clean islands have disappeared in Estonia. This is a clear example of an invasive pathogen that has caused the problem. In Great Britain, on the one hand, there is much more money, they are able to make calculations faster, and it has been calculated that the damage caused by island death is estimated at £15 billion. What is the problem with the diseases of these alien species? This is primarily about economic damage. In Europe, the damage is estimated at around EUR 12 billion per year. In the United States, it has been calculated that forestry alone suffers some 2.1 billion dollars a year. The numbers are big. Of course, diseases also damage life and biodiversity, natural diversity. Now, the Christmas-cream cock is a natural insect species, it's not an alien species. He is harming us with the majority of the trees, but he is doing this very strongly in Central Europe at the moment. There are two comparative images on this slide. You see, in 2018 in the mountains of Harz, Germany, most of the area is still green, only a few brown spots, but when compared to the picture of 2019, we see that the area is completely brown. So the activity of this insect has a very strong link to climate change, especially drought periods. The last waitress already showed you this picture of our most economically important tree species: pine, birch and spruce. But how do sickness affect them? Pine is the most susceptible to all kinds of alien species, and now we have found them on the pine even the most. Rather, the birch has problems at a young age and on herb plants. The spruce is damaged especially in older age and the damage is important. Currently, the spruce is one of the most important damaged tree species in Estonia. The damage is caused by various pests and rots. The island is the most damaged tree species we have. Although the island itself is not of economic importance, the species that grow with it are greatly affected. Here's a graph of how much wood has gone to clear cutting because of pests and rots. The columns represent the area of the trees that have been killed each year and the line indicates a reserve. We can see that the share of damage is higher than in the 1990s. Data show that the focus in spruce forests, which are four to 200 years old, is primarily on spruce, because with them we have the most problems with them, the damage caused by rot is about 39%. What's the problem? The thing is, we don't see the rotting things very easily, they're hiding in a tree trunk. And the problem is that a tree infected with rot doesn't grow very much and doesn't bind carbon to a significant extent. The problem is, too, that the wood that is produced from such a heap is not of the same value as whole wood. Let's continue with the Christmas trees. The percentage of rotting is increasing when the age of the stand grows, and it is not a special miracle. So the older you spread, the more rotting the wood, the more sensitive the tree is to disease. For example, in a 40-year-old spruce, 35% of trees are rotten, with root rot. If we're looking at a 90-year-old stand, there's almost half a stain infected with rot. By summing up these data, we can see that land and forest owners lose about 8.5 million euros of revenue per year due to rot alone in spruce trees. It's the income the landowner misses. And that's because rotting wood just doesn't make that much profit. If we look at society in a wider sense, the number of damages is even multiple. Maybe it's the income that doesn't come into the economy. Rotten wood cannot be deserved in the same way as whole wood. What needs to be done in forestry, and what is really already being done in the era of new diseases due to climate change? A new generation of trees with more productive and durable trees must be built on clear cutting areas or clearings. To this end, these offspring must be tested and checked. Testing-Controls must essentially ensure that the offspring are more tolerant to climate change and, of course, more disease-resistant. These are the most disease-resistant offspring they are looking for. Experimental areas have been established and analyses are being carried out. Here on the slide, blue cups mark places where the test trees grow. The height of the trees or the so-called growth criteria shall be assessed and the durability shall also be analysed. Well, there's been a lot of talk about diseases, cutting methods. In the case of clear cutting, for example, it has been mentioned here today that clear cutting is bad. Emotionally, that makes it, yes, very bad. But if we look at it purely in the context of disease, we can see that the stands managed by clear cutting are no more sicker than the stands managed by the permanent forest. You may even have heard that permanent forest is like good and clear cutting bad. In general, if we think about permanent forest and somehow try to analyze it in the context of diseases, what does permanent forest mean? This means that there is a certain period of time in the forest and some trees are cut down, then there is a distinction and then they go back to cutting. That is essentially what our analyses show, especially in the case of spruce trees, that the more we cut the stand, the more we have rotting trees in this surviving forest. Deficiencies and advantages of permanent forestry. The problem is that the percentage of trees with root rot is increasing. Their growth is lower, they are more susceptible to storm damage and forest renewal is hindered. This is hindered because we have sheltered species of trees, those who can grow in the shadow only one, it is a common spruce. We don't have any more, we're a Nordic country. So all we can and must do is put a regular tree in it. But what's the future scenario for the tree? It's not pretty, it's rather bad. There is also an economic aspect: permanent forest management is up to twice as expensive and must be taken into account. However, the advantage is, of course, that the hope is to preserve the old forest and its biodiversity. Here you can also see a picture of a permanent forest-managed stand, what it looks like. There's a few old trees left. Now, what are the advantages and disadvantages of innovation cutting? In the case of innovation cutting, it is possible to produce more climate change-resistant offspring. We can do that once the stand has been cut. In the case of permanent forestry, renewal is quite difficult to do. As I said, it is not possible to plant much else in a forest like this other than a tree. The advantage of innovation cutting is also better wood quality. The trees present during the felling are not damaged, the pusers are less. The felling is certainly cheaper, the growth of the trees is faster and the air carbon is no longer bound, because the growth of the trees is faster, and forest renewal is not hindered by lack of light or competition from the roots. What, though, are the drawbacks of innovation cutting? The disadvantage is definitely the negative emotion created by the post-graining ceiling area. It's a lot of emotional in my opinion. Definitely a disadvantage is also a negative impact on biodiversity. I will also show you a diagram of biodiversity, here is the relationship between the biodiversity of soil fungi and the age of the stand. In essence, this drawing shows us this again in the example of the spruce stand, because we have dealt with spruce a lot, whereas the blue line represents an unmanaged stand and a red-managed stand, that, in biodiversity, we are talking about soil mushrooms, that is, at present, our focus has not really mattered. There is no statistically significant difference between stands that have been managed with cuttings and are not. When we talk about biodiversity as a whole, to say that logging suffers from biodiversity as a whole, it is not quite right. There are certain groups of life that may suffer in some way, but not all of them. In summary, about forest health and climate change. Of course, we need to adapt to climate change; we do not have a second chance. In doing so, we must give preference to durable plants of well - known origin, i.e. plants of disease - resistant material, that is what we need to plant. Imports of plants of unknown origin pose a risk to the environment and the economy. By this, I would like to say that it is unwise to transfer plant material from the outside, but it is wise to grow it here in Estonia on the ground and from materials that have been tested and tested for both climate change and disease resistance. The design of clean stands certainly needs to be restrained. Today, it is actually very beautiful to see how these purely six trees, built on agricultural land in particular after the war, have been severely affected by rots and pests. Therefore, there is no point in building them anymore, and the foresters will no longer do so. Forest cutting is certainly a positive driver of climate change. It's not bad. In times of climate change, the best measure is smart forest management, i.e. well-planned logging and reforestation. Of course, it is clear that not everything is well, that planning cuttings is certainly worth doing better. I believe that this will continue to be the case. There are also a number of factors in the planning of felling that are worthwhile and can certainly be improved. You don't have to do clear cutting everywhere, you can plan a different cutting. Carbon is, as we know, a precious commodity, and you all know it better than I do, and the forest is a renewable natural resource, where young and middle-aged stands mostly bind the carbon. After this, you could add a series of references to the sources that confirm this. And, of course, smartly planned forest management means taking account of forest life. There's no denying that, and that's also a question of planning. Actually, it's a question of money, but that's what I'm about to get to. So, you don't have to plan clear cutting everywhere. Why did I talk about this, and why is this important? But because the forest and timber sectors employ approximately 28000 people and indirectly they employ approximately 60000 jobs in the forest and timber sectors. The forestry and timber industry is an important employer in rural Estonia. In Võrumaa, for example, 16% of all workers are involved in the forest and timber sectors. In 2018, timber-based products accounted for 16% of all exports of Estonian goods, so the forest and timber sectors are undoubtedly important and the rational management of forests is important for the Estonian economy as a whole. Now a little bit of forest conservation. The whole society must be responsible for nature conservation. It is not just a matter for landowners. But the current situation is that the damage caused by the restrictions must be borne by the landowners. No one thinks that the field sown is everyone's, but the forest is still thought to be. There are no doubt many important features of the forest, no one is arguing about it, nor am I; there are more of them than there are in the field. Consequently, the expectations of society must be compensated for by landowners. It can't be that we're imposing restrictions, and then we'll say it's a matter for landowners. It can't be like that. This year, one hundred years will come from the grant of an academic education in forestry in its native language in Estonia. Dear listeners, What I want to say is that forestry and logging are not a problem, but rather a solution. We are taking advantage of this opportunity for the benefit of our country and our people, and we are doing so sensibly. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U49	Thank you very much, dear waitress. Members of the Riigikogu have questions. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U50	Thank you, good manager. Thanks for the presentation. I am going back to the question of Üllar Saaremäe, which explains that chopping has grown by half compared to years ago. If we look at the state forest, at least part of the answer is that if, for example, in 2014, RMK had to transfer 14 million of its income to the State, then by 2018, the obligation imposed on RMK by the State had increased to 40 million. This increase has been very great and, of course, how RMK is still performing this task, if not cutting it down. But my question concerns this, as you yourself mentioned, that the role of the forest is not only economic; today's presentations have been very much addressed by the economic side, but that the functions of the forest are also social, ecological. How do you feel about who's keeping track of these functions now and how they're done?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U51	Thank you. I think that's what the Environment Agency, the last man who made the presentation here, is exactly what follows. I think they're pretty good statisticians, they follow what's going on, pretty good. Now, about whether and how much we're chopping, you mentioned RMK as an example. I don't really know how to answer that question, because it's probably another decision, more political decision. But, yeah, I think the Environment Agency can handle it pretty well. I don't know what else to say right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U52	Peter Ernits, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U53	Good manager! Good waitress! In the old days, the forest was made in the cold when the land was hard. And horses weren't much of a forestbreaker either. But my question is this: how does chopping into the forest work in springtime when the land is soft and heavy machines break the roots? And how does this affect those who harm the health of the forest, such as the root-washer, the bark cock? Why don't you tell me a little bit about the pinefish? What effect does it have on us to chop more powerful machines and to do so in a time other than winter?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U54	Thank you. A very important issue and clearly relates to climate change. If we had a cold winter, that cold winter would be used. The last few years show that the cold winter is pretty bad. I can tell you that the analyses are currently showing that by chopping now, if the average daily temperature is even more than +5 degrees, or by doing so in the spring of summer, we get a rather similar result that affects diseases, especially rootwash. So, in fact, in the climate change situation, there is no longer a difference between what is being cut in this warm time or during the current soft winter. We're getting a fairly similar result. If we really had the minus degrees and the ground frozen, then it is clear that the result would be better and this situation would probably be exploited. But right now, there's a situation where it's more difficult to plan jobs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U55	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U56	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Very interesting report. But there is one point that I would like to ask you about: you are saying very categorically that logging, in particular the cutting of innovation, is a positive driver of climate change. But Mrs Anger-Kraavi's work, which was partly published here yesterday, is a hypothetical scenario, using different scenarios, that in Estonia, however, it is not found that this is the way the most carbon is connected in the forests. And consequently, all scenarios that are moving in this direction are actually the best in terms of climate change on the balance sheet. But for some reason you are saying that, since at a certain age, trees bind more carbon than at another age, chopping as a whole has a positive effect on climate change mitigation. Could you open up that line of reasoning?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U57	Thank you. It's pretty easy to open up that line of thinking. The point is, if we let the stand grow old, its growth will naturally slow down. But the question is not just that. I also look at this issue from the point of view of diseases and pests. It is perfectly clear, as you could see from one schedule and notice, that, as age grows, the risk of disease infection and pest damage increases considerably. If any age limit has been reached, it is clear that the risk is higher. Consequently, it can be seen in this German picture that the stands are very badly affected. These stains no longer bind carbon, but vice versa, they emit carbon. And a dead tree, as we know, doesn't grow. So actually, I'd say, of course, I don't think we should cut down all the woods. It is clear that I take economic forests into account, and I also consider nature conservation forests, but I am talking about economic forests right now. Once the stand has reached maturity, it is wise to chop and put wood into service and to renew the stand with offspring that are more tolerant and disease-resistant to climate change. This will certainly give us a much better result than if we do nothing there. That is my thinking on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U58	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U59	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I, too, thank you for your interesting insight, so much smarter! I have two questions. I read your slides here and see that permanent foresting has its drawbacks and advantages and the advantages and disadvantages of cutting innovation. I realize there's one more on that list than the other, but it sounded a little funny. But let it be! Both lists have one drawback, while the other has the advantage of having an impact on biodiversity and biodiversity. Consequently, I have a question. We all notice that little birds and birds are very few in spring. Maybe it's the poisons, maybe the nesting grounds. My question comes about the peace of the forest. We now have two months, from 15 April to 15 June, if not cut. It is claimed that ideal would be a good time for three months. We see what comes with cutting down or cutting down old forests, and we see how wild animals are forced to find a new place and a new home. They're coming to the cities because we've taken their home away from them. How do you look at this side? I understand that biodiversity includes animals and birds living in the forest. The forest is certainly more than just a place where trees grow. Do you share the view that this could be three months? Should this change be made? Look at this situation as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U60	Yes, it is our job to look at the situation as a whole. Now, when it comes to forest peace, it is certainly the right thing to do and it is worth following. As far as the numbers of birds are concerned, I am not an expert in this area, but I have not seen any data that would convince me that there are really problems with the numbers of birds. I should see this data first and see how these assessments are obtained, how these results have been obtained. In fact, we still have quite a small part cut off as an innovation. It's not like they're gonna cut down the whole forest. This bird's gonna have a chance to fly to the next forest that's left. I do not understand this question and maybe I am not the best expert on this subject. As far as bird peace is concerned, it is certainly worth following in the spring time. How many months is that supposed to be? Here I would like to say that these two months are certainly a reasonable time. Once this time has been extended, again, the question is that it must somehow be compensated for by landowners. If that's clear, you can do all kinds of things.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U61	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'd like some clarification. My question is this: did I understand correctly that, if there is clear cutting and new trees are planted in the area, these trees are more susceptible to disease than trees growing in the forest?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U63	Thank you. That, of course, is the case. It cannot be ruled out that diseases do not harm the crop. And it can't be ruled out that they won't harm the forest. Now, once again, there are very different aspects of forest renewal. If the wrong tree species are planted, which is not very suitable for this area, then of course, this operation may not succeed and, of course, the condition of the stand may be damaging. But if you put the right tree species on the cutting area, do it in the right proportion and at the right time, and use high-quality material, the result can be quite good. So it all really depends, and there's not a very good clear recipe here, that one is definitely harming and one isn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U64	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U65	Thank you for the opportunity to ask, and I also thank you for the very good answers. But my question is that a lot of passion is fueled by the size of a raiel. I believe that the University of Life Sciences has calculated both ecologically and economically what the optimal size of cutting can be. Do you have any such records?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U66	Thank you. Those are already the things that go out of my ampoea. But in general, as I have understood, the average length of cutting is a little less than 2 hectares, something like that. It's good to look at the Estonian thing, but let's look at it a little bit more. If we compare ourselves with another country, such as Great Britain, we can see that there are much bigger cuts than we do, and I think that there are probably bigger problems there too. We have problems considerably smaller than I would say, at times, even non-existent, because the size of our cutting is not very special. So this average size, I think, we have, how do I say it now? just maybe this kind of moderate disturbance. Even so, you could describe the average. So, yes, as far as the size of the cutting is concerned, I think we're doing well right now. I don't see any major problem here at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U67	Tiit Kala, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, first of all, thank you for your thorough presentation. My question, however, concerns exactly the same subject on which I asked your previous speaker. There's a lot of damage to the owl in Europe. If we also have these damages in the defence areas of Estonia, the current law will not allow them to be eradicated. Your previous speaker said he might have to change the law. What is your vision, whether the law should be amended, or whether pests should be allowed to spread freely, which could result in them going out of the boundaries of the protected area?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U69	Thank you. It's a rather complicated subject, indeed. As the previous performer said, it's complicated, so do I. In fact, protected areas are in many ways built on areas where man has created cultural stands. Our forests are in many ways semi-natural. The thing is, where human hands have been inside, they're semi-natural stains. Now, if some kind of pest or pathogen comes in there, it is clear that this picture will be about the same in the adjacent economic forest. So what do we do? There are entirely two points of view. The first point of view is that when it comes to a protected area, we do nothing. The second point of view is that if there is private land or economic forests on the protected border, they will be put at risk and something should seem to be done. In my opinion, it could be something that would certainly have to be repaired or repaired at the border of private land in order to minimise the potential risk. But once again, everything depends on the specific area and the purpose of protection, the order of protection. So there is no very simple answer to this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U70	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You have used the expression 'a climate change era in which we live' several times today. I would dare to open up to you and say that we are not in the middle of a climate change era, but we have always been in the middle of climate change. There have been at least three ice ages in the history of the earth when the earth has been filled with ice and then melted up again. When I look at the data you have provided, which raises the question of whether climate change in Estonia has actually taken place, I can see that it starts in 1966. I have also spoken with researchers from the Stockholm Climate Institute and their data dates back to 1955. In this regard, I have a problem that, as we know, the United States has abandoned the recognition of the theory of climate change, because these 300 scientists and a group of experts of 50 found that this theory was mismodelled and that data is too short for the time being. In other words, when measuring the earth's history in the metric system, the data that is now presented does not even deserve a needle stick on this line. Why weren't they talking about this theory two or three years ago? And how would you even comment on my reasoning?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U72	Thank you. Of course, climate change is not just a modern phenomenon; it has certainly been the case before. There have been significantly warmer periods than now and there have also been significantly cooler periods than now. So this reasoning is certainly relevant in this context. Perhaps it would be worth quoting here the President of the Academy of Sciences, Tarmo Soiret: 'It would be very dangerous to rule out the theory that the rise in the average temperature of the Earth is natural. " This means that the increase in temperature may also be natural, not just man - made.. if your thinking was derived from it. So, in fact, it can also be natural, and it cannot be ruled out in any way, although, of course, at the moment, the contribution is largely that climate change is man-made. In no way can a man-made part be regarded as having no effect on human activity.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U73	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U74	Thank you. Dear waitress, You spoke before about the restoration of the clearings, and in this case it was very interesting that Estonia is still looking for its own domestic plants, which would be ready for the new challenges, so to speak, to be 'climate-resistant'. It is clear that one of the possibilities of restoring the clearing is to use seedlings, to plant plants back. But now, if you look at this natural process, surely on part of the clearings, everything will be left in the same way that God directs it, then will it be done in the same way, or will it be too short, that the trees will naturally adapt to the warmer period, and this new natural aftergrowth will adapt to the new conditions? For example, I'm watching these dams of Lembitu return.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U75	Thank you. Of course it does, of course it does. The only thing is that this adaptation is much slower than if we could make this choice ourselves, especially when it comes to forest trees, wood species used in forestry. If we want the adaptation to take place more quickly and so that we can manage the stands, we can, of course, make our own choice much faster. Nature naturally adapts. Let's look at the damage to the common island. Everyone's seen it, they know what kind of tree it is. In certain places in Estonia, its losses have been extremely high, but this is because we have considerably more of the common island in West Estonia than in East Estonia, so it may be better off in the west. But in fact, in certain places, it can already be observed that the common island is quite capable of coping with this disease and is able to give such an aftergrowth or natural innovation that is not so highly infected with the disease. So there's a recovery going on, but it's still going on for quite a long time. And I would say that by experimenting, we could certainly analyse what kind of disability the offspring are more susceptible to disease and which are less susceptible and what the effect is. Maybe we can do this ourselves faster than we can wait until nature does.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U76	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'd like to go on with it. If RMK grows its own plants, where private forest owners could get plants if it is not appropriate to bring them from Latvia and they are not as resilient to climate change as we hope. Is it conceivable that every owner of the forest grows these plants, for example? Goes to the forest before the year-pair and collects the seeds and as a result grows more disease-resistant trees than those that could be obtained on the Latvian market.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U78	Thank you. Certainly, it is not reasonable for each owner to take up the cultivation of forest plants. It doesn't make any sense. The smart thing is that it is done by companies with experience. Today, RMK grows its own plants, but there are also private companies that are very keen to do this and can actually do it. Maybe they need some support at first, but then they could do it very well. Surely they would benefit from better planning. If we know how many plants we need, we can grow them. And it is very wise for us to do this here in Estonia on the ground. It is not wise to import plant material for forest cultivation or for urban landscaping. As I said in my report, there is an important threat to the economy as well as to the environment as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U79	Thank you, dear waitress. The time for questions and answers is 20 minutes away. Thank you for your presentation and for answering the questions. We will now listen to the next presentation by Senior Research Fellow in Botany, Institute of Ecology and Earth Sciences, Aveliina Helm, University of Tartu. There are up to 20 minutes for the presentation, up to 20 minutes for questions and answers. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U80	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good guests! Madam Committee on the Environment, thank you very much for the opportunity to speak here. I'm gonna start with a man being a very powerful species. Man and our domestic animals make up 96% of the earth's total mammalian biomass, while 4% remain on natural mammalian species. 75% of the land surface is transformed by man, 66% by the oceans. 23% of the total earth's surface is more or less damaged, and the ability of these areas to ensure the sustainability of life support systems has significantly diminished. For example, the damage to the same land and the destruction of ecosystems, the degradation of soil already affects 2.3 billion people and directly damages all of us in the order of 8.7 trillion dollars, or 10% of global production. Globally, we have led to the threat of extinction of one million species, or about one eighth of the species that divides the earth with us. One in three carbon dioxide molecules in the atmosphere have been placed there in the last few hundred years. Our influence is great. Our impact, both negative and positive, can and will be very great. I'm here today to tell you about the relationship between biodiversity and man. Nature is enormously rich. Estonia is home to 50,000 other species, all of which are linked to different environmental conditions. They form the interrelationships between ecosystems, species and non-living environment, which are more resilient to the changes that are more species-rich and genetically diverse. An example of island death and how some individuals still adapt to the same island death was just given. It is genetic diversity that enables them to do so. The fact that, for example, the apple heart breaks down on the ground or that the soil does not fly away from the fields with wind and produces fruit, or that we have clean groundwater, or that we have useful microbes in our childhood, is not an obvious phenomenon that characterizes the earth either way. These are all biodiversity-related phenomena, these are the benefits of nature. In other words, they can be called ecosystem services. These ecosystem services relate to functioning, well-functioning ecosystems. And it is quite certain to know: the more species-rich and genetically diverse ecosystems are, the better they offer the same benefits. We have built our economy on these benefits, we use them to produce food, to forestry, to carry it out. And those species who are responsible for these benefits live next to us, right here in our own landscapes. So how do these species fare, and how do their lives go? For policy makers like you, today is the most competent source of IPBES reports. IPBES is the same panel as the IPCC, which you have no doubt heard of, but IPBES focuses on the state of biodiversity and ecosystem services. The aim is to strengthen the links between science and politics. The same report, let's say, the same IPBES is a panel of scientists in which all countries participate. Estonia is also a member. The point of the panel is that it brings together all the information that we have, all of mankind's knowledge of the state of our ecosystems, the species of our earth, and the benefits of our nature, or exactly the same ecosystem services. The same IPBES issues reports. A report on Europe and Central Asia and a global report were recently published. Along with them have been published such well-reading materials as 'Summary for Policymakers', which are worth reading. And when you gather into your hands the information written in the IPBES reports and the IPCC reports, you have a pretty good picture of the state of our region and the world as a whole from the point of view of biodiversity. The conclusion of our biodiversity status, which IPBES has made, is quite ruthless. If we look at Europe, biodiversity will be systematically reduced in all European ecosystems. The European ecological footprint has exceeded the region's biological tolerance limit and we are actually enjoying our continued well-being at the expense of the biodiversity of other regions, the benefits of nature and food security. The conclusion of the report, which was actually adopted by the Estonian government as part of the IPBES, is that the loss of biodiversity and the continued loss of habitats put at risk the sustainability of our economy, food production, the provision of natural benefits, and thus the well-being of people. Europe's future sustainable development can only be achieved by preserving biodiversity. Climate change and biodiversity loss are mutually reinforcing factors. Their background is one: unsustainable use of natural resources. The loss of biodiversity and climate change together form one poisonous cocktail. The perfect storm is not passing or crossing us, but is amplified year by year and is becoming an increasingly powerful factor in everyone's life. The combined impact of climate change and biodiversity loss brings world uncertainty, social unrest and an even more unfair and unequal distribution of resources: some regions suffer much and others suffer a little less. In our natural environment, loss of biodiversity reduces the resilience of nature to change, causing great damage to forests and agriculture, for example, and the reduced capacity to resist climate change. We've heard these issues before. Why, then, does biodiversity disappear, and does it also concern Estonia? The main factor, the main source of biodiversity concerns, is land use change and the resulting loss of habitats and habitat degradation. This is a key factor: the physical loss and degradation of habitats. It combines with all other important factors, such as the fact that we have pollution of pesticide use, unsustainable use of resources, climate change. They all amplify each other. But if there are enough habitats, all these factors will be considerably easier to endure. The most important cause of habitat loss in Estonia and throughout Europe is too intensive agriculture and forestry, and drainage in Estonia, such as drainage of our wetlands. This is our historical background. Estonia has not been affected by the negative effects of landscape change. At this point, it is important to stress to you one such small fact that not all the green you see on the landscape is a good place to live. Permanent grasslands in the middle of the agricultural area are not equivalent to species-rich meadows, although they may look quite similar from a distance or from a car window. The young forest is not the same as the old forest. These are different ecosystems. An important aspect that must be introduced is the historic continuity of habitats. Many species and biota are not fast opportunists who jump from one place to another. They evolve over a long period of time in some places. Those species that are such opportunists and jump from place to place, we love to call weeds, pioneer species, and often also pests. The formation of fully-fledged and well-functioning ecosystems, where all or a large part of Estonian species find their home, including those who control our pests, will take time to develop such ecosystems. Our species-rich meadow communities and old forests are actually hundreds, some of them even thousands of years old, having kept gathering and enriching different groups of life. Just as in other parts of Europe, we have lost homes here in Estonia. This slide has one example of how Estonian meadow communities have disappeared. I would particularly like to point out that, among other things, wooded meadows have disappeared, which are pretty good intermediate ecosystems between forests and meadows and perform their various ecological roles. During the period when the area of forests was quite small, we had quite a number of pulsants that, as multifunctional habitats, covered the needs of many forest-related groups of life. The loss of surface area has been a thousandfold. In total, habitat loss and unsustainable land use are also a problem in Estonia. At the same time, both agriculture and forestry, which, on the one hand, are sources of biodiversity and ecosystem services, urgently need biodiversity and the natural environment to function well. Without preserving genetic diversity, species diversity and landscape diversity, we are practically unarmed to climate change. So what do we do? I noted that almost 95% of the meadows have disappeared. Old forests, really natural forests, are also very few; they account for about 2% of Estonian forest land. As far as ecological boundaries are concerned, such boundaries are known to exist, where habitats may shrink without having'massive' consequences for the condition of the species, their existence. This pretty universal limit is 80%. If we lose more habitats in the landscape than 80%, we'll put a pretty quick stunt on the species associated with these habitats. These are the kind of habitats where we have crossed this border, we have meadow communities, old forest communities and wetland communities. So what do we do? Let me note a few points that can significantly improve the situation. Firstly, we need to pay significantly more attention to biodiversity. And to do that, it is necessary to ensure that the habitats that still remain in the landscape remain. Secondly, we need to deal with the restoration of diverse landscapes in places where they have become monotonous. We have these forest landscapes, we have these agricultural landscapes. Across the world, it is becoming clear that nature conservation, focusing solely on protected areas, may not be able to meet all the objectives, to ensure that habitats of species are preserved, as well as the benefits of nature that are important to humans. If we could, we wouldn't see those negative trends. Nature reserves are the core areas of biodiversity, the support areas, but we must ensure that we are able to preserve biodiversity outside nature reserves, agricultural landscapes and economic forests, too, in the event of climate change. I would also like to point out that there is already quite a lot of young forest and forest land in Estonia and that we do not have much ecological need for young forest. However, we must be very careful if we want to increase the area of Estonia's forest land at the expense of other types of habitats, these same meadow communities or wetlands. In this case, there is a fee relationship and this is important from the point of view of biodiversity and from the point of view of natural benefits. For example, trends in pollinators' disappearance and bird biodiversity are linked to the existence of landscape diversity and meadows, the existence of diverse landscape features. Here we cannot approach with one rod and say that planting a tree, for example, is necessarily the best solution. Thirdly, I would like to emphasise that this is a rather sensitive issue, I understand, but we fear unnecessarily that old forests will become a contributor to climate change. There is no conflict between biodiversity conservation and combating and adapting to climate change. On the contrary, biodiversity will help us to adapt to climate change and will also enable them to be alleviated. Old forests with natural dynamics are excellent carbon stock holders, and in our climate zone it is also very fast-paced. The older the forests become, the greater the carbon stock they have collected. Of course, forests do not supply carbon infinitely, but the time they start reaching a zero point in natural dynamics is pretty far from when we consider these forests to be ripe economically. I would like to illustrate this with the same figure, which has also appeared yesterday in the report 'Forests and Climate Change'. It's much of Dr. Anger-Kraavi's analysis. I draw the Riigikogu's attention to two alternative scenarios that are set out in this figure. Since 2020, two hypothetical situations have been proposed: one is that cutting is not done, and the other is the maximum felling, i.e. the felling by maturity. One line goes up, the other goes down. In the next ten years, carbon dioxide would be issued quite massively in the next ten years. On the other hand, a hypothetical situation where cutting is not done, on the contrary, would massively bind carbon dioxide over the next ten years and then 20 more and 30 and 40 more years. I was interested in the difference between the two scenarios and this cumulative margin. We need to understand that we need not only to see how much ties together every year, but also how much remains of that connection. We might think that if we get the money from somebody's wallet, we'll still be rich when we keep the money, not if we burn it from the other end. I made cumulative calculations based on this same previous slide and found that if we look cumulatively at the quantities of carbon dioxide involved in the two scenarios in 2035, if we were to reach some degree of climate neutrality, the difference between these two scenarios is 258 million tonnes of carbon dioxide. So, according to this hypothetical scenario, if we don't chop at all, we've saved so much more carbon dioxide in our forests than we would if we did the maximum cut we could. This is a very large number because Estonia issues 20 million tonnes a year. However, I do not want to say that there is no need for cutting. Absolutely not! I would like to point out that the claim that more intensive logging will help us to mitigate climate change may not necessarily be based entirely on a permanent basis. The contribution of forest management to climate change actually depends on how well we can differentiate and optimise the felling pressures of different habitats, how we can support biodiversity and sustainable and increasing forest carbon stock management practices instead of clear cutting. How can we move towards a bioeconomy that actually uses timber in more durable products? How can we ensure that forest management really helps to mitigate climate change? This is not an impossible task. But I have a feeling we're not really on this road today. The current trends, as well as the solutions actually proposed yesterday, are not actually sustainable in terms of biodiversity and also climate change. Finally, I think we need the term 'natural capital', i.e. the different benefits offered by ecosystems. The same carbon sequestration, climate regulation, substance circles, recreation, also non-woody products, even blueberries, are real capital. These are real things that we need to keep in the same way for real economic reasons, just as we have talked today about quite a lot of logging for economic reasons. Threatening these natural benefits will cause economic damage and will take the opportunity to implement a variety of management in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U81	Thank you. Unfortunately, the time for the report has expired. Thank you very much for the waitress. But there are questions for you, and if you didn't tell me anything, you can mark it in the round of questions and answers. First Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U82	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Honourable waitress! Thank you for your excellent presentation. Perhaps an example of this last calculation would be clarified. Let me get this straight: money can be left in a wallet and taken out is only reasonable if we record the timber we cut off, not on fire, but in long-lived timber products, such as wooden buildings? And maybe you'll comment on something I wanted to ask the last waitress. How do you assess today's state of finance for forest science or, let's say, wood research development? In these changing circumstances, where we have so many new challenges in the areas of forest, nature conservation and also rational forest management, do we have enough money in science in this field?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U83	Thank you. The first answer is that it is not just that a large part of the felling is going to be biomass or heating. It is also a matter of the fact that, indeed, clear cuttings produce carbon to quite a significant extent and that clear cuttings are important issuers in the first few decades, as well as the young forests that emerge after clear cutting in the first few decades. It's gonna take them a while to get to the fastest growing age, where they're once more fast-tracking carbon. So it's a combination of several things. If we add to this same schedule today's bindings to permanent timber products, we are now binding about 20% of the volume to be cut into some sort of permanent products. It could ideally be that, in view of climate solutions, we first value more forest carbon, because it is best kept, and secondly that the resource that we use in the economy that we use as wood and in the forestry sector at all could indeed be the most worthy and preserved. So that we don't only dream of houses that last a long time and store this carbon, but that we really build them. But you also asked if there was enough money in forestry science. There is not enough money in science as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U84	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U85	Thank you. It seems to me that we have paid a little too little attention to literature. In fact, the way forest pests behave in the forest has already been described by Selma Lagerlöf in 'Nils Holgersson'. But my question is about climate change. In fact, perhaps this question is not at all for you, but for the previous performer, but has our scientists thought that, under climate warming conditions, we should perhaps focus on some other species of wood, the broad forests, whatever?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U86	Thank you very much. Absolutely! In the context of climate change, it is very important to diversify the so-called stand of tree species. Perhaps it is true that, because of climate change, we are simply ending the time of monocultural spruce, and that cannot be any more. There is a need to diversify our stands with various, especially broad-leaf trees. It's a more climate-proof solution, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U87	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U88	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Thanks to the waitress for the exciting presentation. My question concerns your last slide. We know, in fact, that clear cutting can be compared to natural disturbances, such as wind damage, fires, diseases, damage caused by pests. Have you taken into account the inevitable natural disturbances when calculating this hypothetical situation? And the second question to this end is, what do you think if the clear cutting wasn't done, what would be the probability of natural disturbances that would come anyway? After all, we know what has happened in Australia, the fires are in America, we know about the yarm raids in Europe. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U89	I will specify that these calculations are not my own, they are taken from yesterday's published report, and I just presented them visually in a slightly different form to make it easier to understand. But natural dynamics are that this will never be as widespread in the case of diverse forests as the impact we are now having with clear cuttings. Naturally developing forests are structurally diverse and, as a result, they are less susceptible to different diseases because of the lack of a "large single table'. Nor is the structure of a diverse forest so susceptible to disturbances resulting, for example, from fires or windbreaks. There are trees of different ages, there are more open places, there are denser places, there are different species of trees. If we compare intensively managed areas with homogeneous species composition of trees and diverse stands, the latter are more resistant to natural disturbances. I do not quite agree with the fact that, in the form we do today, clear cutting, one imitates natural disturbance to one.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U90	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U91	Thank you, honourable waitress, for a good presentation. I will continue my question to the previous waitress, which concerns logging scenarios. The question is, let me get this straight. But according to a consistent felling scenario, it is also in this report published yesterday and provides for about 11 million cubic metres per year, and by the end of the century, forest assets will be kept stable at today's level. If you expect the growth of the forest to pick up, maybe you'll have a 10% increase. But if you take the hypothetical zero-cut scenario, the margin will be 50% larger, or about 700 million cubic metres, so I'm reading out of this report. After all, there are hundreds of millions of additional tons of greenhouse gases involved, which would actually neutralise the entire Estonian emissions over the decades. Let me get this straight. Under different scenarios, it is possible to cut better and worse, but that the zero cutting scenario is still the best in terms of total carbon sequestration. Point one. And the second question: do I get it right that the more we cut off this 11 million tons, the greater the total carbon sequestration in the Estonian forests?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U92	Thank you very much. Lots of questions, I'll start at the end. It is true that, according to these calculations, it seems to be, and it is also logically true, that the smaller the volume of felling we are moving towards, the greater the 'climate win'. When you asked whether there are better scenarios for forest management, it is quite possible that there are: the same one with permanent forest management, moderate logging. This was not the case in this data set, and therefore I could not put this data in this table. However, there is also such a hypothetical possibility that we will succeed in combining good solutions and climate victory, but this certainly must mean smaller felling volumes than today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U93	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U94	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! Two hours ago, the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment indicated that the objective of the economic forest is to generate revenue and that protected forests are where we preserve biodiversity. From your report I had the impression that 13% of Estonia's area could not maintain biodiversity and that a much larger part of our land should be allocated to it. Let me get this straight. And the second question is this. If this greater contribution is needed in order to preserve biodiversity, we are not only talking about ethical and aesthetic categories, so that it is beautiful or sweet or see how nice it is that a wild animal can also be met. In fact, the impact of biodiversity on the ecosystem and our living environment, whether we mean air or water, is much wider. Can you describe it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U95	Thank you very much. I really want to point out that biodiversity and the functioning of nature, which I also tried to express in my report, are not just like things. These are real things. The ecological boundaries are actually the limits that exist just above which we damage our own environment. They are not cognitive, they are measurable. This is the action that ecology is doing: where are the universal boundaries within which man and the natural environment can work together? And it is true that trends in biodiversity and the provision of ecosystem services, trends in nature benefits throughout the world, including in Europe and also in Estonia, show that, based on the current structure of protected areas, we will not be able to maintain these benefits for long. Whether we extend protected areas or find ways to preserve biodiversity in all the landscapes around us better than today. And it's not a cognitive, emotional desire, it's a necessity.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U96	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U97	Thank you, madam waitress. I admit the question was taken away from me, but maybe you could ask twice using a different wording. You're talking about biodiversity, even berries, I don't know if mushrooms, aesthetic, moral values, but they're not really a sin. Even few berries in the woods, more from the field. You're facing people who say what kind of biodiversity you need to live. Dead wood is bad, and the brush must be removed. Would you try to rephrase it rather than be ill-worded, but the environment is actually relatively unacceptable to your story, which is the real thing and what is the incentive that could make such economic pragmatians think about aesthetic, moral categories, based on their personal economic considerations? Bush and dead wood, such as stigmas.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U98	Thank you for your question. Very well asked! When I look at where the understanding of the things I told you today is going, so very briefly, they are well known. And they won't go away. The climate crisis will not go away, and biodiversity will continue to decline. We see today that the European Union is taking action, and these steps are very likely to lead in the next few decades to very effective taxation of emissions. The carbon stock, the preservation of biodiversity, is rewarded and ecosystem-based accounting could ideally be where we are going. We must, in this sense, physically have so-called assets and reserves for things that we are not so good at putting a flag on today. I can see that the economy is moving in that direction. And I want to stress that we are now at a very important crossroads where we have to decide whether or not we are maintaining the possibility for Estonia to maximise this economy. That's the question of the next decade, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U99	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U100	Thank you. Good waitress! I am very pleased that this debate is taking place well in fact and knowledge. I think we really need such a peaceful debate. I noticed a slide of biodiversity status. It was about the threads and the woods, where the major changes actually started 70 to 80 years ago and today, as you said and as you can see from the slide, we have practically lost the wooded meadows. And if I understand correctly, there are two factors at stake: one is greater farming and the other is forestry. What can we do to get the meadow back?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U101	A very good question again, thank you very much! Indeed, much of the meadows have gone under the young forests, which have now grown ripe. I did not really have time to touch on this in my report on the importance of taking continuity into account in forest management. Take, for example, the old woodland. We have done research where we have seen how much more important these are from the point of view of the forest ecosystem. Old, consistent forests, which have been forests for a century and beyond, versus the so-called first generation forests that have emerged on the same meadows. By differentiated management in these areas, we are quite successful in hitting several birds at once and re-establishing more viable structures. This is precisely by cutting down areas where there have been old wooded meadows and creating more open areas. That way we can maximize both. I would also like to say that grazing in the forest is very beneficial for biodiversity and should be encouraged. At the same time, I imagine this is a rather novel idea. If anyone is more interested in the matter, one topic that we have not yet addressed and raised in Estonia is'rewilding', that is, nature conservation, which requires a little more discussion. Perhaps we could somehow leave nature on our own in Estonia by introducing various large herbivores. These are exciting topics, and there are really opportunities to combine biodiversity and modern management.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U102	Thank you. We're about to have a round of questions over, but Signe Kivi will be quick to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U103	Thanks to you! I have such a simple question concerning a very large number of people. In recent years, the opinion of conservationists has been expressed in the media that Estonians are too good and are mowing too much of their home area. Would it really help to increase biodiversity by not mowing some part of your garden, as recommended? And should we knowingly leave more areas undone? Would that have a considerable effect?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U104	Thank you very much. I call it nature conservation for everyone, because biodiversity works in landscapes around us. Two kilometers there and two kilometers to the right is the scale in which a large number of species operate in the first place. If the protected area is somewhere in West Estonia, it doesn't contribute much to the biodiversity of your surroundings. But it really depends a lot on the choices we make ourselves. It is especially important to recognise places around us, in our own garden and behind the fence that have evolved over a long period of time and where the species are indeed concentrated. And indeed, it will also help if you do not directly mow less, but produce your garden with more such mower management, just as it used to be: hay was done once a year and put in the croissant. It's gonna win a lot of species.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U105	One more question. Please, Mart Võrguship, and quickly!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The question is that your report went through that the zero-grain scenario would be the most useful for climate objectives, so that CO2 would be the most binding. I have a two-part question. So why does one area have to tighten the belt? If we do not cut at all, private forest owners and the owner of the state forest cannot cut and earn economic profits, but others do not have to tighten their belts or think about climate goals. And the second question is also: doesn't it do us a disservice to species diversity when we go to extremes, leaving the wooded meadows and the loaves that have grown up in the same state, opening them up again and taking care of them? I think there's a little disagreement here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U107	Can I get a chance to answer that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U108	Yeah, here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U109	That's a very good point. And I might also say that the forest alone is really not enough to meet the climate objectives. In each area, emissions must be reduced; in all areas, efforts must be made to achieve this. I certainly did not want to say that we want Estonia, where no cuttings are made at all. I wanted to illustrate this debate by showing differences in the intensity of felling. I am sure that the balance, in which we can really all be satisfied, is possible, but it may not be what we are discussing today. That's right, there must be a balance, I totally agree with you. But as I said, we have to deal with the restoration of meadows and meadows. As ecologists, we do not advocate turning back the wheel of time and creating some kind of historical situation, but that we have met the minimum necessary for the Estonian nature to be kept safe.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U110	Thank you, I thank the waitress. Now let's move on to the negotiations. Members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups may speak. At the request of the Committee on the Environment, I propose to the Riigikogu that representatives of political groups speak first and then members of the Riigikogu speak first. First registered on behalf of the Siret Kotka Centre Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U111	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The forest is a natural resource, the meaning of which is felt by every person in Estonia. But foresters and the general public have a different view of what forest is. At the same time, it is important that we find a balance between forest management and forest protection. Indeed, there has been much talk about the forest and its preservation in recent years. This is also understandable because the forest has been next to the Estonian people since the beginning of time, providing both valuable construction material and filling the dining table. In addition, it cannot be left unchecked what an important role the forest plays as a habitat and a habitat for many species. When we close our eyes and think about what a forest is, it is a place where trees of great size grow in good health, shrubs cover the ground, and even mosquitoes, and at the end of the summer, mushrooms and berries decorate the forest floor. It is a vibrant forest that has been handled with good authority. You have to take care of the forest, you can't let it scrub. Timely care will provide better prospects for forests in the future. When trees are cut down in the forest, it is important to plant new ones. In doing so, more attention should be paid to ensuring that new trees are of higher quality, such as spruce and pines. All our steps must be aimed at making the Estonian forest even more valuable, more species-rich and ecological balance. In various forest debates, the view that forests are in danger of being destroyed is very common. However, I cannot agree with this, because if we look at statistics, Estonia's forest resources have increased rather than decreased. Personally, I think we need to take out the forest as much as we need and as little as possible. The main thing is that we maintain the balance of nature. Consequently, the aim of our country's forest policy should be for foresters and environmentalists to increasingly understand each other. As the largest forest owner, the state has a responsibility to find and maintain this journey. This will undoubtedly not be an easy task, but I am convinced that we will be able to find a golden middleway between the preservation of viable forests and the efficient use of forests. I am the faith of the Estonian forest. I think that primitive forest is one of the greatest values for Estonia, and we could use it even more for the benefit of our country. The forest should be one of our advertising articles that we introduce to tourists in order to further increase the tourist magnetic field in our country. Think for yourself: there are not many countries in the world whose territory is so extensively covered by natural forests. This is the advantage of the Estonian state and we should make more use of it. The State Forest Management Centre should also be recognised for establishing new hiking trails for hikers every year, new resting places for holidaymakers, as well as forest roads, so that vehicles can access the forest better. All these activities of RMK give hope that the Estonian person will live in harmony with nature in the future and will seek a balance in nature so that both the physical and the spiritual sides are satisfied. The Estonian forest is a natural resource that must be preserved, protected and managed wisely. Let us grow a forest together, with a variety of species that we can impress both future generations and tourists visiting Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U112	On behalf of the Yoko Alender Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you'll listen to us in your offices, as well as people on the Internet. The National Audit Office recently made a very relevant comment on the process of preparing the forestry development plan. Decisions on forest policy have such a long impact that, although the development plan is to be made for the next decade, the scenarios and impact assessments of the decisions must take account of the entire logging cycle, i.e. about 80 years perspective. That was actually the point of today's debate. I share with you the thoughts of the Reform Party Group on how to adapt to climate change, how to help the forest cope, how to preserve and develop the forest in a changing climate. First of all, the forest as part of the identity of an Estonian person. Urban culture is short for us anyway, but even more so: although Estonians are quite religiously lukewarm, we are also a cultural and spiritual nation. And paradoxically, it is nature and forest that are primitive and, at the same time, a modern expression of this spirituality. Maybe the forest is like a symbol of what we don't want to see in civilization. The forest is cleanness, quietness, peace, the opportunity for us to please ourselves for a moment, the opportunity to take a break in a quick performance-oriented social organization. 'The forest cleanses the perceptions,' said the singer Marten King recently. At the same time, the forest is actually as variable as culture and civilization, and it may sometimes be reluctant to admit it. It is certain that Estonia is and should be even more a forest state. Our forests are rich, diverse, but also need intelligent protection. Forest policy needs new, broader and deeper knowledge in a changing climate, as we have heard today. During the previous government period, the pressure on RMK's profits and its transfer into the state budget as dividends rose exponentially. The numbers were already on the table. They doubled. RMK fulfilled its expectations very well, very efficiently, and it was certainly favored by the recent timber market, which has changed to date. RMK has itself studied the opinion of people, which is the purpose of RMK in people's eyes. It is believed that RMK's main role is to offer leisure opportunities. There's a certain contradiction coming out of this already. RMK's role has also been to protect the forest from the outset. A large part of the land under nature conservation is located in RMK's areas. And this is where, as decision-makers, we can express our expectations more clearly and strengthen the competence of RMK, as well as the role model for the private sector. Estonia is not far from it, but it is still necessary to formulate and fulfil its objective more clearly, to be the leading state of ecologically sustainable forest management in the world, to preserve and develop the Estonian forest as a organic forest. Biodiversity, natural diversity, the functioning and maintenance of ecosystem services and the green network are part of the responsibility of all of us. The European Union has recently also supported Estonia with LIFE funding for this purpose. Residue recovery is an issue that you could talk about. This is done by RMK on a small scale as a pilot project and, according to them, their readiness is even greater, but they need guidance from politicians, council members and other decision-makers. Aveliina Helm, in answering Jürgen Ligi's question, formulated today's key question: we need to decide whether Estonia will retain the maximum opportunity to benefit from the benefits of the future economy. Half of the Estonian forest is managed by RMK. What is and should be the role of RMK in society? What are the objectives of RMK's activities? We talked today about cutting pressure in recent years to fill public budget holes. Is the role of RMK primarily to maximise the production of timber or to care for the condition and accessibility of forests and to protect forests? Could RMK, by means of its profits, instead of patching public budget holes, solve the problems of buying out the most valuable land in nature and compensate private forest owners for the nature conservation restrictions? This problem has certainly damaged the image of nature conservation and shaped public opinion, which does not contribute to good cooperation, due to years of waiting. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U114	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U115	What is RMK's cooperation with the locals? How will the planning of space, which will mitigate future environmental risks, be developed both nationally and on the basis of local plans? In the final phase of Raasiku municipality's general plan, there is currently a dispute with RMK as to whether locals can ban clear cuttings in the plan. Local authorities have the right to plan their own administrative territory, both as a result of the Constitution and the Planning Act, but the Ministry of Finance, which currently reconciles the parties, does not seem to take this argument seriously. Surely RMK and local cooperation should be more face-to-face and face-to-face for common public interests, rather than confrontational and court-to-court in disputes. When it comes to that, we'll probably be lost somewhere, and we'll have to try again and better. Now from the forest under changing climate conditions. A warmer climate will boost forest growth, while more diseases and pests will spread. Under such conditions, what should be the volume of felling, the amount of felling and the number of trees to be preserved? I agree with the chairman of the committee who said that investment in forestry and wood science must increase. The timber market is also changing with the climate. Estonia will probably play a major role here with Canada, Russia and China. We are located in an area where we can increase our well - being considerably by taking wise care of our forest, using it locally and deserving it. And finally. I recently heard from a familiar architect that he no longer dares to tell his intellectual friends that he is building wood. This is where we really need to do something as a country. We have a local wooden construction tradition. Wood is the only local renewable building material. If these buildings really hold out for a long time, then we can link CO2 to them. Fortunately now, the state has already taken some steps, for example, the Viimsi Upper Secondary School, but we could do more to bring back the tradition that we once started with log houses. We could now build wooden floors and perhaps break the tradition that started in Soviet times by building reinforced concrete floors, which we are a little too stuck in. Surely it would be significantly more sustainable if we took another step and deserved our timber even more, actually using it in long-term timber buildings. Let's agree that we all love our forest! This is an important part of our identity and there are no winners in the forest war, as has been regrettably mentioned between today's situation. I think we need to contribute to education, knowledge and professionalism, preserve our forests and develop a culture of its management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U116	Thank you. Heiki Hepner on behalf of the Isamaa Group, please! Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U117	Ladies and gentlemen, President-in-Office of the Council. First of all, thank the waitresses for their interesting presentations. I bring to you the views of the Fatherland Group on the current problems of our forestry and on climate change. Estonia is indisputably a forest state, we know how large the area of our country is covered by forest. There are few countries in Europe where more than half of the land is under forest. The area of forest land in Estonia has increased about one and a half times since 1940 and the forest resources have tripled over the same period. In 2018, the area of wooded land was 2.33 million hectares, which is about 1.8 hectares per capita. That's an impressive figure. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm still burdening you with figures because I believe in knowledge and fact-based politics. And I also believe in our Environmental Agency's statistical forest inventory. In addition, repetition is the mother of wisdom. If Estonia is among the five best countries in Europe, it is certainly protecting our forests. In 2018, 13.2% of all Estonia was under strict protection. It is a forest without any economic activity. This number has grown well again last year. The forests that are strictly protected are more than the total area of Hiiumaa and Valgamaa. In addition, we have protective forests where management is considerably limited: about 11.4%, or one more average county. Estonia stands out for another indicator in Europe. We have a very small share of foreign species in the forest. This is positive on the one hand; on the other hand, in the context of climate change, we need to discuss whether there are any alien species that we would like to see more in our economic forest in the future. According to the ripening age and maturity diameter, the areas of all trees in managed forests are ripened and are ripened by 47%, or almost half. With this number, people have recently been intimidated by the fact that half of our forests are now being cut down. The Isamaa Group thinks there is no reason to be afraid. There is no basis for fear, because after the maturity of the stand, a number of other arguments, ranging from the owner's forest management objectives to market and weather conditions to the spread of forest damage, have been affected by the harvesting decision. The forest was cut in Estonia in 2017 at 12.5 million cubic metres and, according to peer reviews, the volume of felling was about the same in the year before last. At the same time, an increase of 16 million cubic metres was calculated. The average volume of felling in 2011-2019 was approximately 10.7 million cubic metres, which is less than the sustainable felling in the forestry development plan of 12 to 15 million cubic metres. The forest is undoubtedly a complex system where there are many variables and there are different relationships between them. Sustainable forest management aims to preserve and enhance the environmental, economic and social value of forests for the benefit of present and future generations. Only a trialectic approach, where we look at these three factors in a common space, economic and social, will ensure a good enough result. The cultural aspect that is important for Estonians must also be included. What are the challenges of our forestry in relation to the warming climate and the need to achieve a carbon neutral economy? The number and spread of surviving pests and forest diseases is increasing with warmer winters. There is also an increase in the number of alien species due to higher average temperatures that suit their environment. The possibility of drought and forest fires is increasing in the summer, and more storm damage is also likely to occur. Sustainable forest management should take into account the potential impacts of climate conditions on the forest and help the forest adapt to climate change. For example, excessive humidity and the risk of fire can be reduced. Our forest management must help to maintain or increase carbon stocks in organic matter and soil, including storing carbon in wood products and creating substitution effects. We can also provide a solution to the problem of carbon saturation, where the mature forest no longer binds carbon at any point. The increase in biomass and soil carbon stocks may be questionable due to the predicted increase in storms, wild fires and pest outbreaks. For example, the biomass of forests managed by Canada increased only slightly between 1998 and 2008, as the significant loss of biomass caused by fires and outbreaks of damage beetles offset the increase. We know what has happened recently in Australia. According to preliminary estimates, a third of the trees in New South Wales National Parks have been burned down. In the blue mountains on the UNESCO World Heritage List, fire has destroyed as much as 80% of wildlife. Scientists estimate that forest fires can account for 5 to 10% of annual CO2 emissions worldwide. Central Europe, however, has been engulfed by the enormous damage caused by the yachts, and this threat actually threatens Estonia as well. It is high time for all of us to think about how to act when this plunder reaches Estonia, both forest owners, officials and members of the Riigikogu. Do we have an action plan, resources, and knowledge to contain the damage? Finally, I want to touch briefly on deforestation. Deforestation, not clear cutting, ends the forest as an ecosystem existence. The housing block built by the forest sells well, but the forest is gone forever. Here society has a point of view, also bearing in mind the need to curb climate change and achieve carbon neutrality. Ladies and gentlemen, In the opinion of the Isamaa Group, forest and forestry continue to be a great and not entirely exploited opportunity for our country. We desire wisdom and good will for all of us to make use of these opportunities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U118	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I look at the number of requests to speak and I see that we obviously cannot finish at one o'clock. The Committee on the Environment has proposed to extend the session until the agenda item is exhausted, if necessary, but no longer than 14 p.m. We must have a vote on this. I am voting on the Committee on the Environment's proposal to extend the sitting until the agenda item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. There are 28 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the extension, no respondents and no abstentions. The meeting has been extended until 14 p.m. Next, please speak on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Evgeni Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U119	Thank you, Mr President. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U120	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U121	Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen, There was a very good general discussion today, with some comments from me. Since the subject is large and wide, it is not possible to concentrate on everything naturally within eight minutes. However, some basic keywords that, in today's discussion, either in the presentations or in the round of questions and answers, also sounded, but which, in my opinion, require a little more thorough consideration. It is undoubtedly not right to compare forest and logging with harvesting of farmland at the end of the summer, as is sometimes the case. The forest, however, is an ecosystem. The Chairman of the Committee on the Environment said here a semi-random sentence that is symptomatic of this debate: in economic forests we deal with economic values and can basically be cut down so much that their economic value is preserved, but we only deal with biodiversity and other ecosystem issues in protected forests. You can't approach like that! In fact, it is very good that we can practically see and hear the effects of climate change today too. It makes no sense for us to discuss whether climate change is real or not, that is a fact. You don't even have to watch the root wash act, you can just look out the window. Of course, this is an acute climate crisis. 99% of climate scientists are convinced that if we do not change our way of living and the carbon cycle much in advance by 2050 at the latest, some believe that this will have disastrous consequences for both nature and man. In this context, it is undoubtedly very important to bear in mind what the forest is doing as a carbon sink in a climate policy context. The forest, however, has many other roles: ecological, biodiversity, etc. A lot of things are connected. I'd like to sort out one thing in my story that lives very hard for some reason, even though he doesn't have a common sense or a scientific basis. It is said that the more we cut, the better for the climate, because then the forests start to draw more carbon. I asked about it today. In the presentation by one of the rapporteurs, the black white letter stated that logging is a positive climate change mitigation factor. However, forest growth is a driver of climate change, as the growing forest binds carbon. The forest, which has been cut down and then burned or otherwise decomposed, emits the carbon that it has bound back into the atmosphere. It's very simple, isn't it? If we look at the volume of felling in the debate, we will see that there are two important sets of values facing us: an ecological and one set of values from the point of view of climate change, and a package of socio-economic values on the other. As has been emphasised today: the forest is not only economic value. There are other socio-economic values, however. This conflict is understandable, understandable, real. There are many conflicts of this type in society and a reasonable balance must be found between these two packages: the balance between felling volumes and ecological values. Please let us stop saying that the forest needs to be cut to stop climate change. This is bullshit. It's just bullshit! These same studies show that if we stop chopping from tomorrow, I will not say that it has to be done, but if we do so, the forest assets will grow until the end of the century. For a while, the young forest emits carbon, but then achieves a moderately binding natural equilibrium point. Forest assets are growing and this means that hundreds of millions of tons of CO2 are being further tied to the forest. I'm not saying the cutting has to stop. It is not conceivable, and for other reasons it is also reasonable to stop chopping to a certain extent it is reasonable and necessary. We have heard about forest diseases here, and it is clear, no doubt, in the case of certain stands, that different methods must be applied there. But to talk about the fact that, since a year by year the younger forest binds more than the old forest, the old forest should be cut down and the new forest should grow, that it is necessary from a climate point of view, from a carbon point of view, is basically not right. The reason is actually proven in terms of climate science, and this is important in the context of global warming, in terms of the functioning of the greenhouse effect. More generally, the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, how many units per million of these gases are, is important. Whether or not in one year they are issued at 2% more or less is a measure of policy management. In fact, the effect of the greenhouse effect is how many particles there are. Similarly, in the case of carbon sequestration, it is not so important to see whether in one year or another the binding will increase or decrease by 2%, in so far as the total amount of carbon in the forests is linked. We're talking about the carbon balance in the big picture. As a result, it is undoubtedly important to strike a balance between socio-economic and ecological, climate policy objectives when logging forests together. The arguments of both parties are certainly relevant and adequate. It also pointed out how many people are busy, how much of the economy this sector is. This balance must undoubtedly be found. But in my opinion, it is extremely dangerous if we bring in a dimension that is not really true in a broader climate policy context. This misleads and gives a completely inadequate impression of existing choices. So when we talk about the fact that we can leave the forest assets in today's state and we can maximize carbon sequestration with zero cutting, there are sometimes a lot of other possible scenarios. Dozens of scenarios could be drawn between them, but these scenarios are all missing in all the reports and other papers that the country has done so far. And that's a shame. But there's still time to fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U122	Thank you. Next, I would like to ask Peeter Ernitsa to speak on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U123	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, In 2003, I wrote the story 'The fate of the Green Bank' in Postimees. Indeed, green gold is a forest, just as oil shale is a brown gold. At the time, the assets of the green bank were valued at EEK 100 billion, while the value of Estonian pine trees was the same as Hansapank's total assets, the same for spruces. I wrote that the Common Bank was like a birch face, Sampo looked like a hook, but the Credit Bank was like a birch in terms of their assets. There was a first forest war and a demand for the heads of our colleague, then Minister Kranich. And the same thing happened during the previous independence, only in an incrediblely brutal form. The instruments back then were even more powerful. And as the minister at the time, the later woodsman Villu Reiljan said: they are now cutting their hair off like they were on the ground, looking in the mirror in the morning, and no more. That's what the bank gentleman said back then in his own way. But for every bank, it's important that it earns as much money as possible to the owner. The same should apply to the green bank. The question is, now or tomorrow. But then, in 2003, 17 years ago, the principle was predominantly that a lot of money, and immediately on the table. And the bank gentleman at the time said plainly that the tacit agreement so far, whether after us or after the Flood, is the end and the time has come to look the grandchildren in the eye. It has been 17 years and we are responsible for the fate of the Estonian forest. And the third forest war is actually ripening. The Harvesters have become even more powerful and are already pushing near villages and towns like hungry wolves into the farmyards. The question may arise as to whether the economic forest is really broke. Indeed, it has also been discussed that if protected areas were reduced, the cutting volume would be reached for ten years. Tõnis Mägi sings about the devastated land, and the people are at least many people, and some scientists are very concerned. In today's Estonian Express, Ando Eelmaa, the leader of the private forest association, wrote a very good story "Mother Nature and Father State." So you and I are in the role of fatherhood. So what does the head of the private forest federation say? He's talking about how he went into his woods and discovered a ram leg on a rock. I quote: 'The law-abiding citizen inside me says I should probably inform the organs. But then I hear Mother Nature whispering, "Don't you tell Father the State, let it be our little secret." [---] The state with its apparatus would settle things right away. Stop! Talumats, stay back, you don't have a business here anymore! " And he speaks of how much he has been punished because of his allegiance to the state. But Eelmaa represents private forests. However, there are actually two kinds of private forests. One is owned by the owners, and the other is company forests. To this day, at least I don't have an overview of how much they're actually chopping somewhere. Three owners: the state, the state forest and RMK, which belong to all of us, private forest owners, which have 100,000 in general, and then the so-called company forests. That is an important question, but there is no answer. If you look at what really is: about 60,000 Estonians, predominantly rural people, get their daily bread from the forest. Brown gold, oil shale, gives bread to about 15,000 people, or four times less. It is the timber industry that is the main stabilisers of Estonia's external trade balance. So actually, we need to think very seriously about this... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U124	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U125	... the way we behave as father country. And I can tell you that, unfortunately, there are no deals, confrontation stays, and warm winters and savages squeal. Actually, there's a lot more to talk about. Yes, here the so-called red line is an aggressive felling: that ripen forests immediately down and then come or flood. Actually, as we've heard, in 60 years, it'll be back to normal. But by then, all of us, father country, will be dead with certainty right now. So what do we see in the EKRE, and what are we trying to do? Yeah, we're not gonna ban clear cutting pitches, even though we want to limit their area from 7 to 5 hectares. Bird peace will come, maybe not as long as it should. I'm an ornithologist myself, and I know it's supposed to be taller. But first and foremost, we need to find an agreement on where to build this church: how to ensure nature conservation and people living and managing this green bank. Andres Sutt has left the hall, he may know as a bank father that we should actually be guided by how a green bank would be sustainable and not start to eat its own assets. And one more thing. People have the opportunity to determine the fate of their home forest. These are areas near people's habitats, towns and villages and, in fact, everyone can have a say in this. For its part, RMK has given this opportunity in the state forest. Unfortunately, little is known about this. Only recently were Kose riots: people thought that the surroundings of Kose would be cut open. And indeed, within five days, RMK prepared a draft for this special management plan. In five days! I recall that there are relatively few places where such a plan has been adopted: Narva-Jõesuu and Haapsalu. There was a little talk about Rasik, and it's been going on in Viimsi for a long time. I can tell you that there is no council matter. This is a local community that has worked hard, and I have the plan, the community-side material. When they can do it, I don't know, but there's actually a chance to get involved in the fate of their home forest. I think it could be used more, because contradictions and battles aren't taking us anywhere. I believe it is possible to build a church in the middle of the village, so everyone is satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U126	Thank you. The political groups have spoken, and now all members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to come to the stand. First please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U127	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, There is a conflict in the wording of today's subject and I would have liked to have heard that all speakers interpret it. I am not saying that it is easy and easy, that there are very simple answers and steps that are easy to do. I admit that I came to this remote control because I also have a conflict between economist and geographer. I don't have any written text, but, as usual, I'm reacting to what I'm saying, and when I listened to those stories today, I still had a gross geographer in me. A child talk of pragmatic views, as repeated here, does not really want to be heard in the Riigikogu. The first sentence, when it is said that the forest is an important natural resource, makes a fang. If we're talking about the current situation, it's already inappropriate. When we talk about today's topic, the forest is really life, the forest is the whole living environment, and the forest, or rather nature, is actually the only way to survive right now. And we ourselves are part of this system, we are not the king of this system. We are not in control of the situation, and today's topic must have been that control has long been lost. We have thought that man controls nature, but it has become apparent that he does not control it. Not only does he destroy nature, he destroys himself. What can you do, the nature of our zone is a forest, which is why we should only talk about the forest. The best of us, too, I think, are putting too much pressure on us to find some sort of balance between economic, natural and social arguments. The reality of this issue is that yes, we cannot cope with what is absolutely necessary - this balance is long gone. The balance disappears globally and in one direction: the species are destroyed and human existence is very fragile. Surely all the aesthetic and moral values that we value in life have come under severe attack, and we will no longer deserve the human name if we do not care about it and ignore it. Biodiversity is really a thing we don't sin, but as it has now become clear, it may be the only way to survive. Natural balance is not something that exists linearly. No, at one point, there's a crisp, one minute, pollinators disappear, new pests appear, and at one point, we don't have our own food when we talk about one species alone. This should actually guide us in our practical steps, but also in our speeches. When I hear here again the sentence that we don't have to fear, we have so many hectares here, in 1940 it was quite different. But it doesn't reflect the reality of the world. This does not reflect our global responsibility in the place where we live and where the forest exists. We're gonna get it all on, our kids are gonna get it all on, and we should really think about it. For most people, the exact amount we cut is certainly one aspect. If we're talking about forestry, of course we have to talk about it, but there's a thousand nuances there. And if you still think that, oh, we have too much dead forest, and if, as was presented today, the drawings are presented, then of course you feel that the bush must be taken down and the land must be drained. But this is the wrong direction in the situation we've come to. It's already ignoring the lost natural balance, it's ignoring the loss of our chance of survival. I don't want to be a radical, but I say that all the people who come here to talk about forestry as an economy and a forest as a natural resource are fundamentally wrong. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U128	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U129	Of course we all want to get wood, of course we all want to pick berries, but actually everything that's going on in the world has a much more dramatic background. Practically the loss of balance is reflected, for example, in the proliferation of some sort of pest, but it all starts with the fact that we have lost various balances in terms of biodiversity. And this biodiversity doesn't mean that the forest is a natural resource. No, he can't be defined like that anymore. But I'm not asking you to live in the woods. I don't see a way out of it. Dead wood is just part of the natural circle. When a tree falls down, there is no point in taking tragic pictures of it and thinking that it is about to issue CO2. No, one form of biomass is replaced by another. This CO2 emitted from it is likely to be able to bind the forest itself. It's not like we're gonna get this wood out of there quickly and put it in the oven, and then it's a zero mission and it's really eco. No, they're not. They're different. Even the matter circles are different, CO2 yes at some stage is more amplified, some less, but I think we have been shown here very good graphs of how different logging strategies affect biomass and CO2 emissions. So I think that this debate could have gone more in this direction today. But fortunately, there were also such speeches with a more diverse, say, academic approach, and I certainly congratulate the experts first and foremost. Thank him!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U130	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U131	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable guests! First of all, I would like to thank the waitresses, who are still in this room for my joy, for their very good presentations. They were very informative! I, like the previous speaker, would rather react to the speeches made by the previous speakers to make some comments on them. Today's debate is entitled 'The Forest in a Changing Climate'. There has been talk here about mushroom harvesting and everything else, but as far as the conditions of a changing climate are concerned, I agree with the speakers who talked about how closely we have to discuss forest policy in relation to climate policy. Indeed, I would also have other comments, à la that we cannot look at the forest separately in this context, too, that when we talk about a reduction in the number of birds and assume that the cause could be a reduction in pollinators, it is strange to say that agriculture is not at all relevant. Although poison is constantly being poured down and destroyed by it, it is as if we only want to talk about the forest. I can't agree with that. But I would focus primarily on climate policy. I want to point out that, you see, you're talking about what would be the situation if we didn't cut into the woods at all, and we're going to cut out a schedule if we cut to the maximum: everything that's ripe, we're going to take it down right now. And then we're going to calculate the quantities of CO2 we're going to issue and bind them. Surely such calculations can be made. But when we talk about the conditions of a changing climate and we talk about what one of the previous speakers said very well, that we have to stop climate change and what we have to do, we cannot look at the forestry or the timber sector narrowly when we make these calculations. We also need to think about what alternatives are. We can think back to the time in Estonia about 20 years ago when boiler houses worked with Russian oil and timber was cut down. We can argue whether these trees would have stood up forever or if they would have fallen down at one point and started to issue this is part of the dispute. But we cannot forget the big question when we are talking about halting climate change: what if we were to fuel oil again today? Agreed, there is an option that we do not heat at all, but obviously we are not discussing it in a realistic way, even in the context of climate policy. Do we have any other alternatives? The alternative is probably nuclear energy, such as nuclear energy coming from Finland, which could be used. We can also bring similar alternatives in the material industry, for example. In general, the world tends to move from plastic packaging to cellulose. Remember, some time ago, you bought a cell phone, you unpacked the box, there was a plastic package inside. Now you're gonna unpack the box with a cellulose package inside. The general attitude of entrepreneurs is to move towards sustainability rather than vice versa. Another option would be to go back on the plastic and store more wood by that amount. Once again, it is debatable how much CO2 would be issued or linked: if you brought fossil fuel out of the ground somewhere in Saudi Arabia, for example, it would produce plastics in Japan, plus logistics costs and look at the balance as a whole, rather than cutting out one of the narrow sectors clinically and assessing how useful it is. I would also ask everyone to think about this when we are talking about changing climate conditions and halting climate change. The most vividly, I think, is the question of whether we would like to take the boiler houses back on oil shale oil or Russian oil, or partly using wood chips. Which is better for climate change in general? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U132	Thank you. Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U133	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank all the previous speakers for their constructive speeches. However, I would like to point out a few things. First of all, there was a lot of talk about ecosystems and it seemed that the forest was the only and true ecosystem. The field is not an ecosystem, and nothing else is. It's not like that. The field is also an ecosystem, perhaps not as exciting as the forest, but still. We are losing a number of distinctive and exciting ecosystems for Estonia, with meadows and wetlands being brought out here today. We have talked a little about wetlands in the Committee on the Environment, especially in the context of swamps. The abandoned freesofe could be restored, and we have about 10,000 hectares of them. There has been little talk of meadows and, in fact, the question is whether the fact that we have an increase in forest area every year is still good for biodiversity as to whether it gives us added value. Maybe we should think about it a little bit. I also think it was a very good suggestion that we should discuss how the interests of the economy and biodiversity can be combined, so that these two things do not rule out each other. We can also increase biodiversity in agriculture. For each chemical, we can find some biological alternatives that maybe give a similar and perhaps even better effect. We have arrived today thanks to decades of action and decisions that have been made in the past. I'm not saying these decisions have been wrong, but times change. I think we need to think now about how we will continue over the next few decades. It is clear that quite as we have done so far, nothing can go on, something must be changed. How big this change is, that is the question of the debate. If we talk a little bit more about carbon sequestration, of course I agree with Evgen that the growing forest is binding carbon. There's nothing to argue about. But I have studied these formulas of how countries are rewarded for moving towards this goal of climate neutrality. There does not appear to be a bonus for the title of the largest carbon holder; rather, it is important to have an annual balance sheet, how much is issued and how much is tied up. And binds the growing forest. So if we keep our forest in a beautiful growth phase, it will have a positive effect. And second of all, the side that Siim said: the forest has other properties, it's not just a carbon sink in its growing season. This substitution effect is very important. We have a lot of alternatives to the use of wood products and we have used them in the past, but today we would like to reduce the use of fossil materials and introduce products made from raw materials with a shorter carbon cycle, i.e. wood. So there's a lot of solidities here and let's keep thinking about how we're getting closer to our goals! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U134	Thank you. I understand that Jevgeni Ossinovski has a request for a reply. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U135	Thank you very much. Yes, it is. Mr Kisler did not mention exactly what I said. I certainly didn't say we should start implementing the zero-grab scenario. And in the sense of climate policy, it is more reasonable to heat Estonian cities with wood chips than with oil. This is certainly one of the reasons why the heat sector will continue to consume wood in the future. And that's good. My point was that perhaps, at today's 11 million cubic metres, we should discuss not only scenarios that allow us to cut either 11, 15 or 20 million cubic metres, but, in view of climate policy, move below 11 million cubic metres. In fact, between zero and 11 million there are quite a number of other ranges to which it would be wise to set a limit on its cutting capacity in climate policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U136	Thank you. I think Mr. Ligi would like to make an appearance with the rep. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U137	Thank you. Since the chairman of the committee has also exemplified my position, I will comment on one detail that has left too much in this Chamber: that the field of grain and whatever else is also an ecosystem, and that is why everything is fine. It was not said that Estonia's natural, natural and sustainable ecosystem is not even a coniferous forest. The zone of conifer forest runs through here, but basically it needs a diverse forest in terms of natural balance. That's all I mentioned. It's awfully pointless when a foreign word is defined in the wrong context, for example, that the ecosystem is actually my fingertip too. But we're not talking about my fingertips, about who's in there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U138	Heiki Hepner has the same wish. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U139	Thank you, Mr President. Actually, I have a procedural question. I'm a relatively young Member, I haven't been here in a year. [[Someone's commenting on the sidelines.]] Right. My colleague says I'm still studying. What about this objection: Is it really enough to feel like I was quoted? Or should I still be mentioned by name? If not, I may always feel that I was personally touched by a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U140	Thank you. Our Home and Working Procedures Act says that the right of reply arises when someone has been named or a member of the Riigikogu feels directly that his words have been dealt with. Yes, please, Mr. Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U141	In fact, the speaker behaves honorably if he is in such a situation to promote debate. If you can see that no one's playing a fool, but really wants to bet on the debate, as it is now, then it's okay. You've been a noble man.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U142	I think it's really good right now. All those mentioned and who found that something had been said about their speech received the floor. That's the debate. Thank you. So let's move on to our round of speeches and ask for a speaking board in Lauri Läänemetsa.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U143	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, When I listened to these speeches and presentations, in particular by listening to the presentations, I asked a question that has already been referred to here. Why is so much talk about forest management in Estonia's forests and how important it is? Why are they talking about it in the forest industry, I understand, it's normal, but why are they talking about it in the ministry? Why is this said by those who work in a public institution somewhere, and why is it not touched by the other side: the same species diversity that Aveliina Helm explained very well here today and showed us? Why do we never hear any arguments from national representatives other than that we need jobs, that the economy needs to go well? Why do we not hear that protected forests are not big enough to actually protect biodiversity and that there is no old forest in these protected forests? Why can't you hear things like that? In short, I would like to say that, if we continue to do so, the biggest thrill of such debate or debate, where only forest management and the money that can be obtained from the forest, will become a forest industry and will receive jobs that depend on forest management. And if you think about it from there, it's clearly smaller entrepreneurs, not bigger ones, who are going to get that kick-ass. Everything has a logical consequence. At the moment when scientists in Estonia acknowledge, and perhaps at one point also politicians, that we have reached a point where certain species richness is on the brink of disappearance and there is no turning back, the general resentment is growing. And that resentment grows pretty bad. In my opinion, it should be up to Parliament and the government to prevent such things. In this sense, we must not be afraid to look for the common part of debate, biodiversity and forest management. If we fear it, nature will first be hit and then jobs and forest managers will be hit. My appeal to all: let us speak honestly, and we dare to talk about the preservation of species diversity too! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-20_U144	Thank you. There's no more calls. I thank the Committee on the Environment for organising today's debate. I would like to thank all the speakers, the experts. Thank you all for asking! Today's trial is over. Closure of the sitting at 13.32 p.m.
