ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Tuesday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on the 14th working week. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to pass on drafts and enquiries? Yes, it is. Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U2	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Riigikogu Helmen Küti, Indrek Saare, Ivari Padari, Jaak Juske, Riina Sikkut, Heljo Pikhof, Raimond Kaljulaid and Katri Raig, I am pleased to report to the Prime Minister and also to the Head of Emergency on the state of the labour market. The evil virus has receded, and now questions arise as to how to deal with it after that. How do we proceed as a country with wage subsidies? What about unemployment insurance measures? These are time-critical issues, because the waiting time is always long. We hope to see the Prime Minister respond to this question in this Chamber soon. We are asking about both wage subsidy and unemployment insurance. We hope that we will move forward from this crisis as a society stronger than we got here. We'll take everything with us and leave no one behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U3	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U4	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Riigikogu! On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I will give the Riigikogu a procedure for amending the Aliens Act. This concerns the labour crisis. The draft extends all foreign work permits valid in March until the end of the year. This draft does not distinguish between types of work permits or between sectors, but of course the most acute problem is the seasonal work in agriculture. All work permit holders who lose their jobs here will be used in agriculture. However, numerically, we do not have the biggest problem with the workforce far from agriculture; it also concerns other areas. Those people who think it's the woods and the Docs, let them look around. Let's see who milks our cows, one third of them are Ukrainians, by the way, and who plows the fields. Hundreds of farm workers are Ukrainians. The strawberry must be harvested already in June and there is more than a thousand employees' needs for it will not be covered by Estonians. Of course, this does not mean any influx of labour, but it does mean that people are not being driven away. Those people who live here at a time when they can't bring in or change new workers, we need to keep them. All countries in Europe are so smart that they are currently fighting for workers in the busy labour market or the free movement of labour, carrying them in, even with airplanes. The Estonian state must not be so much more foolish that it will not harvest its crops, not build houses and not milk cows. Let's hope the Riigikogu realizes that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U5	Thank you. There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. On behalf of the Management Board, I have adopted one inquiry and one draft; the Management Board processes them in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U6	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Electronic Communications, initiated by the National Defence Commission. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Yes, Kristen Michal, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This is number 138, the draft law amending the Law on Electronic Communications. The Reform Party Group supports this. I will explain in a few words why we support it and why we think that this bill could become a law. Like any draft law, there is a certain compromise, the options for this draft were in fact much more restrictive, including "blacklist" and "whitelist" or "allowable" or "allowable" technology options, and they were found too rigid to be considered. The draft provides for an information obligation for the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority, which will grant this authorisation if necessary, based, of course, on partners and partner services both in Estonia and elsewhere in the European Union and NATO. The result is quite flexible and the draft trusts that this option, including the choices of public officials at this rate, will be wise. Discretion means knowledge of new technology and reasonable inertia in reviewing existing ones. This means, by explaining that acting too fast and setting too many expectations, it is likely that either the state or the taxpayer will receive the bill, but it is not likely that market participants operating technology choices would want to wait too long. This is a very important issue today, especially in the spirit of the present era, because the draft law gives decision-makers quite large confidence limits. Let's just say, like yesterday, we will probably be discussing in the near future exactly how much confidence the legislator should give to officials and authorities in the exercise of such powers. So I hope that this trust will be assessed and used sensibly both in terms of pace and technology. There is also a security aspect of the bill, there is no doubt about that. We don't have to be ashamed of it or keep quiet about it. The technology assessment goes to a fairly practical level. This is, in my opinion, positive, and I think it is also positive from our group, because it maintains a balance between technological knowledge and choices and policy choices. Politics are often faster and more passionate; techniques are somewhat more conservative. So, to sum up, it's a compromise, and it's for decision-makers with a lot of confidence. We hope that it will be used wisely, therefore, and in this confidence we will also support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U8	Thank you. There is no more wish for negotiation by the political groups, so the negotiations are closed. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 138 on the draft, and we are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on Electronic Communications initiated by the National Defence Committee 138. Please take a stand and vote. 83 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 4 against, no abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a law and the first item has therefore been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U9	Today's second item is the third reading of the draft law amending the radiation law and state fees law initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the 144th draft, and we are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the radiation law and state fees law initiated by the Government of the Republic 144. Please take a stand and vote. 88 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U10	Today's third item is the first reading of Riigikogu's decision to amend the 'Constitution of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe', submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I would like to ask Raivo Tamme, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable ambassadors! The Committee on Foreign Affairs submitted this draft, including on 11 March, which provides for the appointment of Raimond Kaljulaid as the alternate member of the Estonian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in place of Mr Indrek Saare. No amendments have been tabled. We propose to vote. I would remind you that after this vote the composition of the Estonian ENPA delegation is as follows: Head of Delegation Maria Jufereva-Škuratovski, members Eerik-Niles Kross and Urmas Reitelmann and alternate members Raimond Kaljulaid, Raivo Tamm and Vilja Toomast. Thank you. I'm waiting for questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U12	Thank you, dear waitress. There are questions for you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U13	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Was your nomination as a waitress also discussed in the committee? Maybe it doesn't give the cultural people such a strange impression that you've been playing together on some show, but now you're just gonna figure Indrek Island out? It doesn't smell like revenge, does it? How did the Commission either discuss it or not discuss it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U14	This issue was not discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U15	Good manager! Good waitress! Do you have any information that Socialist leader Indrek Saar has somehow become more infirm and must be replaced by a younger man, Raimond Kaljulaid?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U16	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U17	That much I know that when I went to Strasbourg with him, I saw that he was in very good physical shape. However, as the chairman of a party, he does not have time for the activities of the delegation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U18	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U19	Thank you. Can you explain what made this choice? There are very many very good and talented people among the social democrats. Why this choice?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U20	All we asked was why Indrek was leaving. And that is what I answered in the answer to the previous question. But who will be replaced is the decision of the group, and we did not intervene in it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U21	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Yes, Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U22	Since I've been mentioned, I'm taking this opportunity to...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U23	Releader can only be used during negotiations for mention, not for remote speech. But you have the opportunity to speak on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, so you can use it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U24	No, thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U25	The political groups have no wish to negotiate; no amendments were tabled to the draft. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 160 on the draft and we are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the amendment of the Riigikogu decision 'Constitution of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe' of the Riigikogu decision 160. Please take a stand and vote. 57 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 18 against and 4 abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U26	Today's fourth item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I ask Hanno Pevkur, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U27	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give a quick overview of what happened between the first reading and the second reading with the rules of procedure. We received amendments from Jüri Jaanson and Marko Šorin, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs itself reviewed possible changes to our domestic and working procedures. First of all, from the amendment tabled by Mr Šorin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to urge you that if you tabled an amendment, it must be tabled either by signing in writing or by digital signature. Unfortunately, the amendment tabled by Marko Šorin only reached the Commission chairman's mailbox by e-mail, i.e. we would have had the opportunity, on a purely formal basis, not to process it. However, we have examined Marko Šorin's proposal and we have come to the conclusion that it does not need to be included in this draft at the moment. But indeed, for the next time for everyone: if anyone is proposing amendments, they should certainly reach the Commission secretariat, either digitally signed or signed on paper, in such a way that they can already be finalised in advance in the table of the amendments. Jüri Jaanson's proposals concerned two issues. Firstly, one technical change, or rather a drafting amendment, concerns real-time participation in a session when we have a remote sitting. This amendment was 100% supported by the Commission. There was simply a rewording, i.e. when to use the word'real time', the meaning of the provision did not change. This is under Amendment 2 in the table of amendments and it states that a sitting with remote participation may be held if a member of the Riigikogu is guaranteed the possibility to observe the session in real time while away, to perform proceedings, etc. The word'real time' came forward and covers all the activities to be carried out at the hearing. The second amendment by Mr Jaanson concerned how participation in a remote session for people with special needs is guaranteed. At the Commission meeting, we actually extended this debate and reached out to whether and how we are guaranteed to attend the session for people with special needs, regardless of whether it is an extraordinary sitting, an additional sitting, an ordinary sitting in a large Chamber or a remote sitting. We concluded that we actually have § 1572 currently in force in the Home and Working Procedures Act, which provides for the obligation of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu to provide the Riigikogu with technical resources and technical opportunity to participate in the session. Therefore, with Jüri Jaanson's agreement, this proposed amendment, which only concerned participation in a remote session, was not formally taken into account. But basically we gave explanations and we also added an explanation in the explanatory memorandum to the draft, where it is clearly stated that § 1572 also covers all those needs that concern any specific need in order to attend the Riigikogu meeting. The most important change from the Commission's own debate was whether to stick to the fact that a remote sitting is subject to the same quorum requirements as the additional sitting and the extraordinary session must have 51 members of the public at all times, or whether to say that the sitting with remote participation is the same as the day-to-day work of the large hall. After the discussions, however, we came to a consensus that we would stick to the same rules in the remote sitting as in the ordinary sitting, knowing that the remote sitting could also be an additional sitting or an extraordinary sitting, and that in this case the same quorum conditions would apply to the remote sitting, i.e. the 51 requirement. This amendment, formulated as Amendment 1, deletes points 3 and 4 from the original draft. Ultimately, the situation remains where both the remote sitting and the ordinary sitting of the Riigikogu are subject to the same rules as regards the quorum requirement. The extraordinary sitting and the additional sitting are also subject to the same rules as those currently in force, i.e. the 51 requirement also applies to the remote sitting. The last issue concerned the entry into force provision. As you remember, during the first reading we discussed how much time the Chancellery of the Riigikogu could take to bring the work of the Riigikogu to a technical stage so that we could use the remote control application electronically. The estimated time is about two or three months. It was therefore an opportunity to implement or enforce the law from 1 September, but at the meeting of the Commission we remained with what was originally proposed, the law will enter into force in general terms. And the assessment of whether or not we are ready for a remote sitting will remain with the Riigikogu board. Hopefully, the Chancellery of the Riigikogu will be able to make these applications as soon as possible in order that, if there is a need for current indicators on the health front, we hope that we will not have this need before autumn, we will be able to apply it. Actually, yes, we can enforce the law in general. These were the discussions and amendments that we had between first and second readings. The Commission's proposal is that if we finish the second reading today, we will do the third reading next week and adopt this draft as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U28	Thank you. You have questions too. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U29	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Am I right to understand that today would actually be the right time to interrupt this reading in order to ask new questions or to propose amendments, because yesterday, when there were procedural questions for an hour, they mainly concerned how to make themselves known, and this issue is unresolved. It seems that this is the right time to take off, collect more new knowledge and then proceed with a better bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U30	Thank you for this proposal. All the political groups agreed that when we initiated this draft, it was only about participating in a remote session that the Riigikogu could, if necessary, gather in the form of teleworking. Of course, there are still many provisions in the house and in operation that could be changed, and this has been discussed repeatedly both in the body of elders and in different groups. But this time, I would like to stress the fact that all the political groups have agreed that this draft will only deal with the introduction of the rules of the remote sitting into our home and work arrangements.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U31	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U32	Thank you very much, dear waitress. I'm going to ask you a question about the quorum of this remote hearing. I understand that the quorum procedure for a remote hearing or the procedure for counting is similar to a normal session. If an additional or extraordinary sitting takes place in the form of a remote sitting, will the requirement for 51 parliamentarians to be present also apply? Or how exactly is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U33	Thank you. Yeah, that's right. In any case, if the Governing Board decides that a remote sitting is to be held, the same rules shall apply as for any other sitting. Where an additional or extraordinary session is convened, the requirement of 51 for the form of remote participation shall also apply.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U34	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U35	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I still don't understand this case-by-case approach. The proverb of the Estonian people says that rege rake still in the summer, cart in winter. Now that we have a situation where we might have to be at a remote hearing, we will be working on how we could conduct the hearing at the end of this. We could still be looking forward. There were some problems last night, and I can see that there are some other things that need to be smoothed out. At present, in an emergency situation, we are only looking at the issues that are needed in an emergency situation. How did it turn out in the Commission in the first place that we are discussing things that concern the remote session today, even though we have the entire law of the house and the rules of procedure ahead of us?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U36	Thank you. This opinion developed even before the first reading. When the Committee on Constitutional Affairs examined the opinion of all political groups on whether the Riigikogu should be able to meet electronically, i.e. in the form of remote participation, feedback from all political groups had to be provided that yes, that should be the case. That is why the Committee on Constitutional Affairs tried as soon as possible to write a draft to this effect and bring the large hall here. And we have also kept up the pace of processing it as quickly as possible. At the same time, we considered it reasonable that we did not do second and third readings in one week, we did not propose, for example, to do second readings today and third readings already on Thursday, but we did consider it reasonable to keep to good legislative practice. So we don't do two readings in one week and we bring it to the hall for the third reading next week. With regard to other possible amendments to the Rules of Procedure, I think that the Board of Governors of the Council of Elders and the Riigikogu are the right places to discuss them. If, for example, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has to prepare an order for other changes to its domestic and working procedures, then we are certainly ready to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U37	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U38	Good vice chairman! Good guardians of the Republic! In my opinion, we could solve other problems. I've noticed that from time to time, we've set ourselves up some tasks that actually sort of engulf us. We're just like divers with a wooden leg, we'd like to go deep, but we can't. The one I wanted to talk to you about. Unfortunately, if we in the Committee on European Union Affairs want to show everyone that we have engaged and involved all the committees, we cannot do so, because at the same time we have special committees and some people who should actually represent a committee are at the same time the head of a special committee. We've set ourselves some rules of goodwill that we can't even live up to in the bud. I do not want to imply or say anything to anyone here, but perhaps we have created an obstacle to ourselves with this kind of engagement policy. Just like now, when the emergency situation is about to end, next Monday, but then we're just going to discuss it. It's pretty funny. Another thing that has often bothered me, which has been avoided, is that the chairman and minister of the committee are from the same party. At times, it is no longer understood whether the chairman of the committee is already representing the ministry or whether the minister is representing a political party. These boundaries are pretty nebulae. But this is, of course, a serious debate, indeed, when the emergency situation is over, we will at least have the knowledge of how we can organise our own teleworking in the next emergency situation and whether it can be done electronically. So we're looking forward. If we did not have this special situation, we would not have thought of it, because then we would have thought that the special situation was so special that we did not see such a special situation. The special things were over, and there was nothing wonderful about it. Greetings to Hard Volmer! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U39	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no more wish for negotiations. Three amendments have been tabled; we will examine them. The first amendment is the position put forward by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. The second amendment is tabled by Mr Jaanson, and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The third amendment has also been tabled by Jüri Jaanson, the position of the commission: to be disregarded. The proposal is not subject to voting in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 176. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U40	Let's move on to the last item on the agenda today. The fifth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs. I would like to ask Kert Kingo, member of the Legal Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U41	Dear Vice-Chairman, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act is due to the need for equal treatment of beneficiaries of the pension of the years earned by the police officer as well as beneficiaries of the disability and survivors' pensions of the police officer and the border guard. The draft relates to the Act on the Implementation of the Defence Forces Service Act, initiated by the members of the Riigikogu on 14 June 2018, and the draft Act amending the Police and Border Guard Act, which aimed at ensuring at least a pension for the members of the Defence Forces and police officers and border guards who remained on special pension, which they would have enjoyed if the basis for calculating their pension had not been reduced by 8% since 1 July 2009. The amendments entered into force on 1 January 2020, from which pensions of members of the Defence Forces, police officers and border guards retired before 1 January 2010 will be recalculated. The initiators of the amendment defined the target group of the amendment as the beneficiaries of the pension of the years earned by the police officer and the pension of the years earned by the Defence Forcesman. The victims of the changes were mistakenly excluded from the target group of incapacity pensions and survivors' pensions of the police officer and the border guard, although they were subject to the same regulation as those of the pensioners of the years served by the police officer. This means that the calculation of invalidity and survivors' pensions was also based on remuneration and, if this changed, the pension changed. Thus, when the salaries of police officers and border guards were reduced by 8% from 1 July 2009, the disability and survivors' pensions already granted to them were reduced by 8%. The law on police and border guards will be supplemented in the same way as the amendments which entered into force on 1 January 2020. The draft does not relate to any other pending draft, i.e. the programme of action of the Government of the Republic or the implementation of European Union law. The purpose of the draft is to provide police officers and border guards and their loved ones who have been granted disability pension or survivor's pension at least with a pension that they would have had if their pension had not been reduced by 8% since 1 July 2009. The draft amendment to the Act has also been approved by the Government of the Republic by decision of its meeting of 9 April 2020.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-12_U42	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft 161. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 15 May at 16 a.m. The fifth item has been discussed. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. Thank you. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 10.41 a.m.
