ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U1	Thank you for your comment. Before I begin again, I have a request for you. I know when we had the opening session, the hearing was bad. After that, a number of colleagues came to say it, and the same was in the ministerial pit. So if there's a problem and you don't hear it, please always give me a signal right away. We can regulate it. But I'm starting over. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the Monday session of the second working week of the IV session of the Riigikogu. As usual, first of all there is the handing over of drafts and enquiries. In the name of the Government of the Republic, please, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U2	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the law implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union. Arvo Aller, the Minister of Rural Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when processing this bill in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law ratifying the Investment Protection Treaty between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, on the other. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Reinsalu in the proceedings of the bill. Both drafts have been forwarded to the Riigikogu by means of information systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U3	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts. The Management Board of the Riigikogu deals with them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Next, please check your presence!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U4	85 members of the Riigikogu are present, 16 are missing. I now vote on the approval of the agenda for the second working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U5	There are 86 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U6	Now we will go to today's Monday agenda, but before that, I will present our usual procedure for dealing with enquiries. First, the representative of the speakers, speaking for up to 5 minutes, shall be followed by the reply of the minister to whom he is addressed for up to 15 minutes. Any member of the Riigikogu can ask one oral question and then negotiations will be held for 5 + 3 minutes. Today's first item is an inquiry into the situation of children with chronic illness submitted by Riigikogu members Helmen Küti, Jaak Juske, Heljo Pikhofi, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Riina Sikkuti, Indrek Saare and Ivari Padari on 18 June (No 39). Riina Sikkut, member of the Riigikogu, is the representative of the heirs. I'd like you to come to the speaker's desk, please. Helmen Hunter should be this? In this case, there is a slight difference in the paperwork. Here you go, Mrs. Helmen Hunter! However, Riina Sikkut came to the speaker's desk. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U7	He moved and showed up. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. As early as the spring, my colleagues and I from the Socialist Group presented a question to Minister Tanel Kiige. It has two focussings. Indeed, at a time of emergency when the child remained at home, the parent was able to receive compensation and support if the child had a disability or special need. But we also have children with chronic diseases who have not been assigned disability or special needs, but they too remained at home at risk. How can unequal treatment be eliminated or reduced in such a situation? Especially now, when looking back at the autumn, where the season of diseases seems to be happening again, it is likely that children with chronic diseases who may not have been disabled will have to stay at home. The second issue concerns children with diabetes, children with first-type diabetes who need both blood sugar measurements, parents' round-the-clock monitoring for smaller children, schooling support and maybe a social rehabilitation service for going to work. However, current practice has been such that services and benefits are available on condition that the child is assigned a disability. If now the practice changes, and this is not wrong, the disability may begin to be defined in one, another or third way. But then the rest of the parties, such as local authorities, must be informed that their decision-making will now also change, and they will no longer be able to use the existence of disability in their services and benefits in order to designate a child, for example, as a sponsor. It is that we are moving towards a need-based approach, that if the child has a need, he gets a support person, gets part of the necessary rehabilitation service, maybe receive support or compensation if the parent incurs extraordinary costs due to the child's illness. If we move to ensure that all children receive appropriate support, we would have no concern. Today, a change has taken place in one square or box of the social system, but others also need to change their behaviour so that no child actually gets helpless. That is why we have asked the Minister for Social Affairs four questions concerning support for the livelihood of children with chronic diseases and their parents at home during emergency situations and, secondly, how the provision of disability for children and corresponding benefits and benefits now takes place on a daily basis, even outside the time of spread of infection or the emergency situation. So get your questions ready, it's a very interesting and important subject. On the one hand, it is easy to link, for example, to the existence of health insurance citizenship or to the existence of disability, but if we choose a different approach and talk about the necessity of social welfare, the majority of it is that all services and benefits are needs-based, that is to say, decisions on consideration must be made. This is what the Chancellor of Justice has been talking about here and, fortunately, he will also come this week to give us an overview of his activities. Then we can ask him whether, over the course of the year, decision making is more widespread and whether signs of improvement can be seen. It is not possible to give up the designation of a disease-specific disability if the other parts of the system do not or do not dare to make a decision on the basis of which each child is supported in accordance with his or her needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U8	Thank you. Inquiries will be answered by Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. Please, Mr. Minister, to the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U9	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Thank you very much for the opportunity to respond to the questioning in a very important area. I congratulate all seven members of the Riigikogu who have initiated it, and I consider it very right and important that, during and after the emergency situation, we analyse both the decisions we have made and the very view of the future, because we all know that the COVID-19 pandemic has unfortunately not ended far from the end. Similar concerns, as we saw in the spring, are likely to continue. I will start by answering questions in a row, and then I will take part in further discussions. The first question: 'What is the justification for the loss of support, support services and additional days of parental leave for children with type 1 diabetes who are not disabled? Do their families' coping with their children's illness and their health continue to be the same? " A brief answer to this question is that to date, all children with first-type diabetes have been identified by the Social Insurance Board and no child has been deprived of disability status. I consider this reasonable and right in the current situation because, as has been pointed out, there is still no conviction today that without such a decision, without a disability, all the necessary services and benefits that the child and his family really need can be obtained. More specifically, as of 31 August 2020, disability severity has been detected in 582 children aged 16 years or less with first-type diabetes: average disability is 26, severe is 552 and deep is 4 children. The question here, of course, may be that there may be other reasons not only for the disability, but also for the child's deep disability. It must certainly not be the wrong impression that children with diabetes will be recognised as healthy or that their access to the necessary services will somehow be lost. It's not true, it can't happen. Diabetes is in any case a serious disease and these families, including parents, need the support of the state, local government and society as a whole in the form of various services and other benefits. If we look, we will see that in recent years the support provided to families of children with diabetes has increased. Since 2020, as a result of the decision of the previous Parliament, the allowance for children with medium and severe disabilities has increased twice and the allowance for children with severe disabilities has increased three times. From 2019 onwards, medical devices and supplies for children with diabetes have been compensated for 90% instead of 50%. The Health Insurance Fund has also started an additional analysis to determine whether and to what extent children with diabetes need compensation for other diabetes substances such as test strips, lanterns and needles and how quickly this could be done. It should be said immediately that the availability of these additional resources in the health insurance fund's view is not dependent on the severity of the disability, i.e. the need for the aid is identified by a doctor or a therapist, and all disabled children receive 90% discount for the aid. I have been in contact with the Health Insurance Fund and, according to our initial calculation, an increase in the limit for test strips, lanterns and needles in order to ensure an adequate amount of these would entail an estimated EUR 335000 from 1 January, an additional cost which I personally consider to be acceptable in the Health Insurance Fund's Council. It is also a question, as rightly pointed out, that parents of children with medium, severe or deep disabilities are entitled to parental leave for a disabled child one working day per month until the child reaches the age of 18, which makes the parents a total of 12 working days per calendar year. In agreement with the employer, several days may also be used at a time for previous months in the current calendar year. The state compensates the employer for the holiday fee paid for it. Of course, it is also important that the same diagnosis or health problem, when we talk more broadly, not just about the first type of diabetes, but about the principle of the same degree of disability, does not always mean the same degree of disability. The medical history of each child, as well as the adult, and the scope of the need for help may vary, as a rule, from one child to another. There was a correct reference to an individual-centred and human-centred approach. If the same solution were to be taken into account for each child, we would actually ignore the potential complications, the possible change in both directions of deterioration and improvement, as well as the fact that, for example, a diagnosed infant may need other forms of support than a teenager or an adult. In the same way, according to the Social Benefits for Disabled Persons Act and the Child Protection Act, the need for each child's assistance needs must be assessed individually. When determining the degree of disability, the Act obliges the Social Insurance Board to assess the health status of each child and the extent of the resulting restrictions and need for assistance. Under the Social Benefits for Disabled Persons Act, the average disability is determined when secondary assistance, guidance or supervision is required at least once a week. A severe disability shall be determined when such a need occurs every day and, in the case of deep trees, the need shall be 24 hours a day. In doing so, guidance and assistance are needed when a person cannot cope independently with eating, hygiene, dressing, movement or communication. Supervision is necessary if a person can be dangerous either to himself or to other people. In fact, in the Ministry of Social Affairs, we have had a great deal of contact with parents, their professional associations and doctors and other experts, and we have gathered quite a lot of information to understand which services are primarily needed and where there are the greatest shortcomings. There is a great deal of need for social and educational support services provided by the local government or the state: support services, childcare, psychological counselling and other mental health services. Unfortunately, the support system for children with special needs does not always work as well as we would like. Certainly, the burden on parents will be very much on their own. For this reason, we will soon present to the government amendments concerning the child support system with special needs, which aim to ensure faster and better quality assistance for children and to improve the assessment of the need for assistance and the organisation of services to date. These thoughts, which are in the memorandum of the child support system with special needs, and the proposals with which we are going to the government, include, for example, a plan to create a solution that would allow children to access the various services they need, regardless of the existence of disability. We also want to significantly reduce the burden on parents, combine different assessments and applications, and make it easier for the family to receive help. We want to bring together social and educational services, providing them in kindergarten and school, thus reducing the burden on parents for transporting children. We will extend the financing of child support services for children with disabilities, and we want to channel the European Union's resources to local authorities to ensure that they have a comprehensive view of their needs for assistance and that they have the necessary services. We also apply for additional funding from both European Union funds and the state budget for the development and provision of services for children with special needs. It is also proposed to extend the target group of children with rare diseases to whom support is paid even without the degree of disability. As we know, we have made the first such changes in this Parliament. The second question: "To what extent has the parental support of a child with special needs been used? How many parents applied to the Social Insurance Board for the grant under § 2 (4) of the Regulation and how much of them was the grant granted? What explains the use of such support? ' In total, the Social Insurance Institution proactively submitted an offer to 13270 parents in respect of 9476 children, of which 2228 parents confirmed the offer received. During the emergency situation announced by the Government of the Republic on 12 March, the Social Insurance Board paid the child's parent's allowance to a total of 1304 parents, a total of 1326062 euros. The number of arrivals varied by month; in March it was, of course, smaller and in April-May-June higher. For all three months, the allowance was paid to 301 parents, 756 parents for two months, and 247 parents for one month. The average amount of aid paid throughout the implementation of the specific measure was EUR 494 and the maximum amount was EUR 1116. As I referred to earlier, 2228 parents confirmed this offer, 1304 of whom received real support. I'll explain why 924 didn't get it. In these cases, there were different reasons, for example, that the person did not leave the employer on unpaid leave, which was one of the prerequisites for receiving this allowance, or that he received a salary benefit from the unemployment fund during an emergency period, i.e. unemployment benefit. There were also situations where the parent already received disability or care benefits from the health insurance fund for the child. This, of course, was based on the legal space in force. As regards Article 2 (4) of Government Regulation No 26 of 9 April 2020 on the conditions for receiving and paying the parental allowance of a child with special needs and the basis for calculating the allowance, which was requested, 12 parents applied to the Social Insurance Board on that basis. A total of eight positive and four negative decisions were made by the Social Insurance Board on the basis of a special procedure. Here, too, there were clear reasons why in some cases support could be granted and in some cases this possibility did not exist. For example, there were applicants from abroad and there were other differences. A more detailed overview of all of these can be obtained from the Social Insurance Board. In any event, it can be said that this measure met its objective of supporting parents who could not work because of teaching a child with special needs. And I am pleased that the time taken to implement this measure was short, as the emergency situation ended in mid-May and the need for it to be used in the school period was reduced due to the beginning of the summer. But, of course, we must be ready to use similar support measures, if necessary, also in the autumn. Personally, I certainly support it. If we look at the use of this measure, it was the low-paid parents who used it very much, which is understandable, because it was often more useful to them than to the higher-paid. And these people didn't lose their income to date either. The third question: "Why did the parental support of a child with special needs not extend to a child with a chronic illness who has not been disabled but who, due to their medical condition, may be in a risk group for an innovative infectious disease? " The parents' allowance for children with special needs extended to the parents of children with medium disabilities in 27 different diagnoses, in addition to all parents of children with severe and deep disabilities and parents of children with special educational needs. These were diagnoses in which the child's immunity was weakened, including the target group children with the first type of diabetes, whom we talked about earlier. Each chronic illness does not place children at risk of the virus. At the same time, we have created the possibility of making distinctions by means of a regulation, which has been referred to in the past. I quote in § 2 (4) 'Where a child with special needs does not have the status or diagnosis referred to in the Annexes to this Regulation, the severity of the disability or the specific educational needs identified, or the child does not belong to the age group provided for in paragraphs 1 to 3, but the child has an equivalent special need which requires continuous supervision at home and substantial support for learning, and therefore, due to the special circumstances, the parent must be temporarily absent from work due to the special needs of the child, the Social Insurance Board shall be entitled to grant the allowance to that parent. " Before, I described this opportunity as being used. The fourth question, which I have already answered indirectly, but I am happy to answer: 'If children in a kindergarten or school have to stay at home because of the spread of the corona virus, for example, in the autumn, do you consider reapplying the parental support of a child with special needs? Could the support extend to all parents of children with chronic illness or special needs who are forced to stay at home with their children? ' The Social Insurance Institution is in principle able to restart the payment of the allowance if necessary. Both the necessary IT solutions and the planned budget that can be used this year have been preserved. Of course, this requires the will and decision of the government. The analysis of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People revealed that parents were generally satisfied with the support measures, which provided the necessary support. Data from the special procedure also show that the target group for the grants provided by the law was sufficiently precise. But when we start using this measure again, it will certainly be possible to re-examine the target group, depending on the spread of the virus, the different institutions and the need for closure. I think that we should not act on the so-called autopilot, but we must review the feedback that is both positive and more worrying and, on this basis, extend the measure or review other conditions if necessary. I'm sure that makes sense. There were four questions answered, and I can see that some are still in line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U10	Thank you. Indeed, Mr Minister, there are a number of questions for you. Helmen the hunter asks first. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U11	Thank you very much. Good Minister, thank you for your answers. In one of your responses, you said that the Ministry of Social Affairs will shortly present a new plan to the government on how to start building a needs-based support system. Does it not seem reasonable, however, that the principles would not be changed until this plan has been presented and has not been debated and discussed with stakeholders? In fact, a large number of parents have reported, both via the media and directly, that they are losing the necessary services, especially as regards the services provided by the local government, which are still very much linked to the level of disability today. It seems that designed-made is still better than made-considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U12	Thank you for your question. The Ministry of Social Affairs has not made any changes in this area; no legislative or similar guidelines have been issued. As I referred to earlier, today, when we are talking about children with first-type diabetes, all those who have applied for it have also identified the degree of disability. There was, indeed, a specific case in the past where it was not originally done, but this decision was later revised, and I think it is right that it was re-examined, i.e. that additional explanations were heard and that the degree of disability was identified. So in this sense, we have not changed practice. And in any case, I agree with this principle, that is something that I have also expressed at meetings with the Social Insurance Board and the Ministry of Social Affairs, that, of course, if we have a vision of what better a system could be than today, then certainly this vision cannot be on paper or only in the Ministry, but it must also be developed and launched in practice before it is possible to circle the possible identification of disability or other decisions that could lead to a deterioration in the availability of services or benefits for people in real life. This is certainly not the intention or the will of the Ministry of Social Affairs or of me as Minister of Social Affairs. On the contrary!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U13	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U14	Thank you. Dear Minister, If the SCA confirms that no child in need will be left without help, where should the family, whose child is deprived of the severe disability so far, which means that the support person or child care service is interrupted, and the local government says that they do not have the money?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U15	Any such decision is definitely individual. These decisions can be challenged, if necessary, by asking the Social Insurance Board to review them. As you well know, no minister or any official will decide to identify the trees, as will the experts of the SKA. In cases where there is a reasonable consideration to have the decision reviewed, it is reasonable to submit a request to that effect. As far as cooperation with local authorities is concerned, there is certainly room for improvement at both national and local level. Often, this picture is very fragmented and different from the one of the municipalities that rely on the specific needs of the aid themselves and carry out their own assessments, and there are those who may at times make the existence of a degree of disability too uniform. I do not think this is the right practice, because people need different services and support. It is not black and white, or it is not, but it can be very different. As has been said, if there is a reasonable consideration to have the decision reviewed, it is reasonable to lodge a complaint. But in any case, the right to these services and support is in accordance with the law, regardless of the existence of the disability.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U16	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U17	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We already have over 800 children of diabetes. Their parents are organized and stand up for the interests of their children. What other changes to the disability assessment practice of the Social Insurance Board can affect children with which diagnoses?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U18	Let us begin by saying that the practice of the Social Insurance Board has not changed. The question is that, according to the law, as I was referring to, each individual must be assessed individually. This is the usual procedure for both repeated and initial application of trees. No one has provided any guidance or guidance to change this legal obligation in one way or another. If you want precise information about the levels of disability and diagnoses addressed to officials, disability applied for or repeatedly applied for and a positive or negative decision has been obtained, this information can, of course, be provided by the Social Insurance Board according to general statistics.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U19	Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U20	Thank you. Dear Minister, Why has the Social Insurance Board tampered with the interpretation of the law, which resulted in about 750 children losing their degree of disability last year, and nearly 300 children were assessed to be below the level of disability? Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U21	Thank you for your question. As I referred to earlier, practice as such has not really changed. The question is that re-applicants, as well as new applicants, need to assess the degree of disability individually. The assessment has moved both to one side and to the other, i.e. both those with a more severe degree of disability than before, either with a mean heavy or heavy depth, and those who have been dealt with the other way around. There may be many reasons: it can be a change in the need for help, a change in a person's own livelihood, including, for example, a change in the state of health. There are also situations where, for example, some traumas have resulted in a disability that has been alleviated by intervention in the health sector and by a strong effort on the part of the individual. In this case, too, the severity of the disability may have gone lower than before, for example, to a deeply difficult one. These movements from one level to another are not decided by any official, as I referred to earlier, by expert doctors. And I think that it is right that such decisions cannot be made on an official or ministerial level.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U22	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U23	Thank you. Dear Minister, International educational studies available to us today on distance learning experience say that distance learning increased the educational gap. Those who were otherwise doing well were also mostly successful in distance training, but those who needed more ejaculation remained even more behind. My question is: have you and your colleague from the Ministry of Education and Research discussed how to make sure that those children who need education are no longer left at home with their parents? Special education is an area that is taught at school for many years, and no parent can do enough to develop his or her child further.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U24	Thank you for a very good question. What is there to deny, our absolute preference and perhaps really in the educational sense, also the primary interest of a child is certainly that he or she can participate in teaching in a well-considered supportive environment that suits him or her. Of course, parents give themselves, I think, everything and more for their children, but it is not always possible to provide the same environment as the special ones you referred to, with appropriate training in educational institutions. I certainly consider it right and important that the study should continue for as long as possible, ideally throughout the pandemic period, precisely on the ground. That is exactly what we are actually applying for in the wider field of education, especially in primary and primary schools. I think that the reference to the level of education, quality is well-founded, because purely logically, but also as a result of communicating with people in the field of education, it can be seen that there is probably a reasonable distance learning in which a person is able to obtain the same volume as in contact education in general, is still done in upper secondary school, at best in primary school, even in universities where video learning has been used very much before anyway. But it is certainly not done in primary and primary school, nor in the vast majority of children with special needs, it is not really done. Staying home, especially when this period gets longer, may, on the one hand, as you have indicated, lead to a lack of education, but when we talk about children with special needs, it is actually a much wider circle of problems. The primary objective is to ensure that the studies continue. This is also the reason why we have started different restrictions and taken different steps at national level, clearly outside education and health, precisely where it is easier to pull together, be it entertainment, night liquor sales, travel, bigger events. We did not go this way, as had to go in the spring, when the ignorance was much greater, the supply of personal protective equipment was smaller and the precise assessment of risks much more difficult.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U25	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U26	Dear Speaker! Good minister! How do you assess the work of the Social Insurance Board in determining the degree of disability for children with diabetes? Are you happy with that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U27	I think the Social Insurance Board does a lot of pretty good work every day. Their area is very broad, they deal with older issues, pension issues, parental benefits, family benefits, victim assistance issues, and really support for disabled people. Certainly, the Social Insurance Board also has so-called study places on this issue. I am very pleased that, in the meantime, we have been in contact with the Head of the Social Insurance Board, Mr Egon Veermäe, and in the near future, I will say, on 9 October, there will be a meeting between the representatives of the Social Insurance Board and precisely the representatives of the sectoral doctors. I mean, in this case, family doctors, pediatricians. Just in case, I say the exact list, otherwise I am wrong and the protocol goes wrong: Estonian Endocrinology Society, Estonian Association of Pediatricians, Estonian Association of Family Doctors, Tartu University Hospital Children's Clinic, NGO Diabetes specialists. They are currently invited to a meeting with the Social Insurance Board and the Ministry of Social Affairs on 9 October, which is aimed precisely at reviewing the arrangements for the identification of children with first-type diabetes and agreeing uniform rules so as not to create a schizophrenic situation where a doctor working in one field feels the same way, a doctor working in another. In fact, the Social Insurance Institution itself is in some ways divided. After all, the Agency must rely on the decision of its expert doctors, but when expert doctors' assessments differ, for example, from those of the respective associations, as I referred to earlier, there are obvious questions. It is reasonable for people in the medical field to negotiate with each other at a table in a calm manner and to agree that no child or family will be caught between such gears.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U28	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Listening to you on the remote gives the impression that everything is in the best condition and that nothing has changed, including when determining the severity of the trees. But what do you say to parents who have expressed their concerns on television and have given examples of how they have to deal with their child every night? Now that the severity of the trees has changed, they ask if it is a punishment for their efforts and work. Not to mention that the services associated with the previous level of disability may disappear. If we refer to local governments, it must actually be acknowledged that some people, depending on where they live, may be deprived of certain support and services, also on the basis of their income. What would you say to these families? Why do they get that feeling when you think everything's in the best shape?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U30	Thank you for your question. No, I didn't say everything was fine. I have repeatedly stressed, in answering previous questions, that there are many places where there is room for improvement. And that is why we are submitting a corresponding memorandum to the government precisely in order to improve the support system for children with special needs. If I thought everything was in the best condition, we wouldn't. As far as parents are concerned, as I was referring to, my sincere respect and respect belongs to all parents who raise children with disabilities. Parents in general, too. I think that the work they are doing certainly deserves much more recognition than the state and local government can offer today. Surely we are the ones who must move forward and contribute more and commit. And there must certainly not be the impression that some parent's contributions can be punished in some way, you referred to a punishment, or that there will be a reduction in the support of the state or local authorities. It's definitely not supposed to be like this. And I also pointed out that today, all children with first-type diabetes have really been identified as having disability. Most of them have a severe disability, some have a deep disability and some have an average disability. Specifically, the average disability is 26, severe in 552 and deep in 4 children. This reflects precisely the fact that the state provides support through disability grants, additional holidays and various services, and of course local authorities also need to do so. Here I see the need to expand this support. I referred to the changes to be approved by the Health Insurance Fund and to the proposals that we are taking to the government so that no concessions are made on the contribution of the state or local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U31	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U32	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, My question concerns the situation of children diagnosed with phenylketonuria. I'm just saying that these are people born with a lifetime metabolic disorder, and this disease can only be controlled by a lifetime of therapeutic nutrition. As we have dealt with this issue in this Chamber before, it should be said that food suitable for this treatment diet is not produced in Estonia. When the emergency situation and crisis arose in the spring and the borders closed, these people, families, were in a very difficult position. I know that they have approached the government with a proposal that the foods that families need to control this disease be included in the emergency stocks. Can you tell me that now, if the situation of the virus gets worse and the situation that borders are closing again, is our current supply better? Can these families feel confident that they will not be in trouble?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U33	Thank you very much for your question. Yes, in any case, I support this proposal, the state must set up a stock agency when planning its stocks and take into account that there is a difference between food and food. What is food for one person can be life threatening for another. So, of course, when creating reserves, children and their families with various rare diseases must also be taken into account. If you're asking me if there's enough special food available today, I don't know if there's a supply like that. I would be delighted if I were wrong in this case, but I am responding to you now from the point of view of my knowledge. We have created a corresponding allowance, as you know, so that it can be granted without identifying the degree of disability, so as not to create a situation where people receiving support are already severely affected. I think this is the very right practice, and as I have pointed out, we believe it is actually right to extend it. But motivated by your question, I will question it again when I get to the house. The creation of stocks has indeed meant that there would be sufficient reserves for people with different dietary needs not only during an emergency situation but also in any other situation, either through a medical or social welfare system or through a stock agency created under the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U34	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U35	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! In the case of children with first type of diabetes for whom no degree of disability has been prescribed, support, support services and additional days of parental leave have been lost. I therefore ask whether, in the opinion of the State, such a child is sufficiently responsible and conscientious to be responsible for his or her own life and health without assistance. I am thinking here, for example, of a timely injection and proper consideration of carbohydrates, proteins and fats, i.e. a proper independent diet.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U36	Thank you for your question. Once again, as of 31 August 2020, all children with first-type diabetes have been identified as having disability; none of these children have lost their disability status. Perhaps the answer is that it would certainly not be the right situation where they should partly remain without the necessary support and service, and this is not the case at the moment. This whole question, the debate, has really begun with the decision taken in one particular case, which has now been reviewed and the degree of disability identified. I think that as long as we do not have an alternative functioning system, as described earlier in this Chamber, it is not right to change this practice. And, as I pointed out, on 9 October, doctors from different fields and experts from the Social Insurance Board will meet to agree on such a secure solution together and to offer these families, applicants, so that we do not have to deal with these situations through court or other dispute mechanisms.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U37	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U38	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! The offerer of assistance suitable for a child or family, this helper and the spotter, is actually the local government. Where practice has changed, all of this may be absolutely right, but how does this knowledge now reach local governments? Have local authorities been provided with guidance material or training or are they planning to do so? Social workers in local governments are mostly not medically educated; the word 'phenylketonuria' may not say anything to them. For the first type of diabetes, the knowledge of the press may be at the level read. If they are accustomed to making decisions, such as defining a social transport or a support person, based on the existence of a disability, how do we ensure that when a child does not have a disability, they are encouraged to make decision-making decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U39	Thank you for your question. Basically, there was half a description of the situation, and I agree that this is the case. Of course, there are 79 local governments in Estonia. We cannot expect a municipality in a small island or with a very small population to have the capacity to assess the need for services for all kinds of medical diagnoses or disability that have been or have not been the basis for the identification of diseases or health concerns. On the one hand, of course, we want to move in that direction, so that the municipalities are more capable and stronger, but we must take into account that these differences will certainly remain in the future, unless we are making a 'new' administrative reform, which would create significantly larger municipalities. But this is a longer-term issue. It has also been my observation to the people of the Ministry of Social Affairs that, even if we say In other words, if we are going to change this system, which, as I was referring to, can be done gradually and certainly in such a way that no one gets between the gears, then we must certainly also come up with a section on how to provide a system of assessment, precisely in those areas where it is not possible or adequate to assume that a social worker or an official of a particular municipality would have sufficient competence, experience and, in that regard, sufficient children to offer an individual or case-by-case assessment. It is necessary to cooperate with the county centres or otherwise bring expertise to the municipality. And so far, I do not think that any municipality can be blamed, in particular, to a smaller municipality if it is determined by the degree of disability. It was a short answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U40	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm sort of looking for the truth. In particular, the Head of the Special Welfare and Rehabilitation Service of the Social Insurance Board, Helen Tähtvere 'Ringview', reported live that none of the children with the first type of diabetes have been deprived of their degree of disability, although it has been made easier, but no one has been left without the degree of disability. After that, however, a story appeared in the Estonian Express, according to which parent Kristi Peegel had listened to this statement with wonder and sent two decisions to the Estonian Express, which proved otherwise. The question is this: how do you comment on these two controversial positions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U42	Thank you for your question. The specific situation is what I referred to earlier, that there has really been one case in which the severity of the trees was not initially detected, and today this decision has been made in circles. I think this is right, because on the basis of more accurate information and knowledge, we must all, including officials and the health care system, be able to review our decisions again. The contradiction was probably that the representative of the Social Insurance Board meant that at present, there are no disabled children who have not been identified as having a disability. But it really was possible to ask this in wording, because, in the past, such a decision had been made, which, as I pointed out, has been changed to date, this situation existed temporarily. That might be the exact description. I think that, on the one hand, this communication error, in other words, must be very precise. On the other hand, I also refer to the fact that, of course, this individual decision created resentment and misunderstanding in this community at the time, both in parents and in general, and it is good and right that it has been reviewed and amended today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U43	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U44	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! With regard to the reorganisations by the Social Insurance Board, which is why the Social Insurance Board is now interpreting the law differently, the parents of children with diabetes have already turned to court, as far as I know. Why do families with sick children have to go to court? Is this the new practice of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Social Insurance Board to make people's lives more difficult when we talk about children who are already having a hard time and their parents? Now, if the court finds that the rights of diabetic children and their parents have been violated, who is responsible?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U45	Thank you for your question. As far as I know, this particular thing is not at the trial stage. This decision may, of course, be challenged, or specifically, we are talking about determining the degree of disability, but not at the level that it was before. I don't think it's right to settle this in court. I think it is right, which I referred to earlier, that, on 9 October, or in the near future, the medical experts of the SKA will meet sectoral professionals, which, in terms of health, will involve independent experts, on the other hand. It is possible to agree and negotiate jointly how the identification of a disability for children with first-type diabetes should take place in the future, so that no one has to challenge decisions with the support of the Social Insurance Board's own mechanisms or through a court which, in my opinion, is certainly completely unreasonably burdensome and difficult from a parent's and a child's point of view. And, of course, in the view of the State, the Social Insurance Board and the Ministry of Social Affairs, such a situation is not reasonable, favored, desired or otherwise supported. We want children, especially disabled children and their parents, to receive more and more support from the state and local authorities every year, both in the form of services and grants. This is certainly an internship, which I also support and seek as Minister of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U46	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U47	Good manager! Good Minister Tanel Kiik! If you look at this whole thing by the side, it's kind of weird. The concerns of the diabetics and the determination of the disability have not, in fact, only now arisen; this problem was already before the emergency situation. What you're saying is that by now everyone's disability is defined as maybe a lower degree of disability, is kind of a reverse process. The disability is not a goal, it is an objective. And in itself, the behaviour of the Social Insurance Board in order not to determine disability, provided that the help comes from local governments, is in principle completely understandable. Only this help did not come from the local government. How do you comment on the fact that the Social Insurance Board did so correctly, but the other party of the system, the local government, failed to do so? And now, as minister, you say that all these decisions by the SKA are then, I understand, reviewed and everyone has a disability and life goes on happily. It's kind of weird to look at it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U48	Thank you for your question. As I have pointed out, this was a specific decision, not all decisions. There was a decision that involved not identifying the trees at the time, which was later challenged by the parent, so that the disability was still detected. In the remaining cases, the degree of disability has been identified by all applicants. I do not think that one or another party to the state or local government is guilty here in black and white form. Rather, the question is that there are grants and services that can be provided by the State and those that can and should be provided by the local government. I think it is justified that both are offering assistance. I certainly do not want to say that, in a particular case, the local authority should somehow have taken over the role of the state or parent, which was precisely about supporting and helping this child. I think that this is probably the case in this case, if the medical experts of the SKA have been so rated, it was not possible to do this in any other way than to determine the severity of the disability. Perhaps it provided him with support, financial support, and necessary services. In the long term, of course, we want to offer as many services as possible regardless of the severity of the disability, but in the case of a specific case, without being an expert in the field of health, I think it is right that the decision of the SKA to identify the disability is made. This is all the more so because it has been done on the basis of expert physicians' own assessments and is a practice that has also been used in other children with first-type diabetes. So here I wouldn't blame the local authorities, I'd rather see the potential room for improvement for both the state and the local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U49	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U50	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking for an understanding of a need-based support system. What's the state of it now? Does this support system ensure that families with sick children may not be deprived of a rightful support service in the future? And will justice be restored to those who have been unjustly deprived of services? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U51	Thank you for your question. If you ask whether there are children in Estonia or adults who have missed out on the necessary services, unfortunately, the answer is definitely yes. There is no point in us hiding or cheating here, of course it is a constant problem in our area. On the one hand, it is a question of underfunding and human resources: often there are not enough supporters, social workers, also child protection workers, and, more generally, social service providers, whether it concerns rehabilitation or other areas of health. Of course, both the state and local authorities need to channel additional resources here. This is something that I believe that every government must actually act as a force, regardless of whether we are having better or worse economic times. These are also requests that we have submitted both to the state budget and to European Union funds. The negotiations are currently under way, as you well know, we do not yet know the final figures. So I certainly will not assume such a misleading role, claiming that all the people of Estonia who have applied for help have received it. Unfortunately, they have not received it. Surely our goal must be for everyone, children and adults, to receive help. And, of course, it is particularly difficult for the weakest, or severely disabled, children and their parents or people with special needs to remain in service or support. This is a place in which there is still much room for improvement in different counties and different institutions of Estonia, in different municipalities, one can even say enormously. If we look at the level that we would like to reach, that we often compare ourselves with the Nordic countries or other welfare societies, we can see that the social sphere is one of the places where the Estonian state is clearly lagging behind, which we can deny there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U52	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U53	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns this situation if schools should go back to distance learning. Do you cooperate with the Ministry of Education and Research? Last time the schools went to distance school, the parents were at home and were able to deal with the disabled children. But what happens now that the schools go to distance school and the parents are at work? So, what about the kids with the trees?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U54	Thank you for your question. We in the Ministry of Social Affairs certainly consider it right and reasonable that when we go to the wider organisation of school education, we create the necessary differences, just as is the case for kindergarten services, as is the case for children with special needs. We cannot direct all children equally to distance learning. If this need arises, of course, a similar support mechanism must be offered, but, as has already been pointed out here, it does not provide the necessary support in the educational sense. Another option is that these students must be given access to education in the form of regular contact training. If we speak purely numerically, it is certainly not a set which, epidemiologically or in terms of the spread of the virus, embraces any increased risk, but it is certainly extremely important for these people, their parents. So our first and second preference is to continue our regular training. And, of course, we work with the Ministry of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U55	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U56	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! I came to watch the show that my colleague Urmas Kruuse mentioned. It was clear from this that the parents of children with diabetes diagnosis are basically, if not a qualified doctor, then at least the nurse's duties in caring for her child. In such a case, would it not be reasonable to provide these parents with access to their child's e-health data, and not only access, but also the possibility to make entries themselves in this environment, because the Commission, which decides on the disability, cannot make a qualified decision if there are no basic information, or entries? I admit I'm ignorant of the technical question of how it's done. But can't you do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U57	Thank you for your question. In fact, these decisions are not made solely on the basis of data from the health information system. It is possible for a person, and it is also reasonable to provide the Social Insurance Board with additional information about what activities are and what situations his or her child has been in, and what kind of support a parent has had to offer. The Social Insurance Board also asks the people that if it is not possible to assess the situation on the basis of the health information system and to identify disability according to the application, more precise information will be requested and, of course, taken into account. I referred earlier to the fact that when we talk specifically about children with first-type diabetes, I hope that the health system will find a good and sensible solution by proposing a uniform application of practice to the Social Insurance Board. On 9 October, a meeting will be held with Estonian endocrinologists, pediatricians, family doctors, children's clinic at the University of Tartu and non-profit institutions who are all independent bystanders, and who are also part of the board of the Estonian Children's and Youth Diabetes Association today, if I am not mistaken. So it is the representative of the target group's umbrella organisation that is also involved in this meeting. I hope that a reasonable agreement and a reasonable understanding will be reached, and that all parties - children, parents and the Social Insurance Board - will find out what is right, reasonable and child-supporting practice here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U58	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U59	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, Thank you very much for answering very serious questions. I understand you're pretty worried yourself. This is not just about children with diabetes, it is about young people, and what time goes on, the more people with chronic illness. But let's stay here with the kids. The problem is also not only diabetes, but also congenital bleeding diseases, severe malignancies. My question is as follows: what are your concrete steps in order to resolve all these issues specifically in your administration and in the municipalities that need 'close cooperation'? We may be able to write letters, talk stories and give interviews, but we need concrete steps today and now, because it is what these children and their parents need.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U60	Thank you very much for your question. I couldn't agree more. We have organised a lot of meetings with the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities, we have worked with representative organisations in a specific area as well as with organisations in the field of health, as well as with the Social Insurance Board. And, of course, if we go to the government with concrete proposals to change the child support system, it is essential to involve local authorities and make agreements with them, but also to create legal clarity. Perhaps the main concern I referred to earlier is that, in the meaning of the law, the local government is uniform, but in real life, we have municipalities, the smallest of which is the population of a hundred and the largest of 440000. It is therefore understandable that the placing of tasks and the allocation of roles must be thought through, there are places where the state must provide support with expertise or create some form of regional assessment, so that there is no situation where the needs of a child with a specific diagnosis are assessed in the same way at one end of Estonia, and in another municipality a different decision is made in the same situation. I think it is, on the one hand, a question of equal treatment for children and, on the other hand, a question of legal clarity. There will certainly be many meetings with the umbrella organisations, the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities, as well as with local governments. When I have attended meetings in different counties, in all the counties of Estonia, these social issues, obviously also the nature of my work, have always been one of the main topics that we have discussed, that are the points of concern, the points of thought. And I must recognise here the local authorities that they understand this situation in any case, understand the seriousness of this problem and the responsibility they have. At the same time, we all know that Estonia is a country with an ageing population. The proportion of people with disabilities is increasing, but unfortunately the number of years of healthy life is not moving at the same rate. In fact, there is also a concentration of the population: the younger population is concentrated primarily around Tallinn and Harjumaa, also in the region of Tartu, whereas the older population, often in need of more help, is outside the larger centres. This means that these municipalities will have a double burden on the tax base of taxpayers and, at the same time, the share of those in need will increase. This must also be seen by the state in the so-called distribution of local government money. This is my request and my recommendation to Mr Aab, who is waiting in the queue, to take this into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U61	Thank you, good minister. No more questions for you. Next thing I know, I'm gonna open negotiations from the speaker's desk for 5 + 3 minutes. First, I'd like Riina Sikkut to come here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U62	Thank you, good Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm very happy to bring these things together, but I can't really be happy. Neither of these issues. Let's get the diabetes kids first. This actually demonstrates once again how those who fight for themselves receive help in Estonian social welfare. If there is a well-organized group of parents and if rights are required, the degree of disability will remain. But do we know if there are children with a certain diagnosis of children who have previously lost or lost their degree of disability, who have received lighter disability, who do not receive the necessary support person, social transport or disability benefit? We don't know that. Maybe there are, but they just don't make noise, they don't fight for themselves. Our task, however, is to reach those who have a need but cannot fight for themselves, both in this hall, in the Ministry, in the Social Insurance Board and in local governments. And the second issue, as regards the organisation of learning in schools with virus circulation, the organisation of training for children with special needs, their staying home, the reimbursement of their parents' stay at home, we discussed all this in the spring and we are discussing it today, but actually we need a plan. The number of people affected is growing so fast that we may need a solution next week. So what do we do? If we do nothing, its burden, its damage, will still be borne by children with special needs and their parents, who are forced by circumstances to take these decisions themselves, without having any support or guidance to do what is appropriate for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U63	Thank you. Looks like there's no more call request. Would the Minister like to speak again? No, I don't. Then thank you. I will close this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U64	We will move on to the following point: Minister Jaak Aab will give us an overview of the report of the public service for 2019. But before that, I'll remind you of our procedures. First of all, the Minister's presentation for 20 minutes, each member of the Riigikogu may ask one oral question, the length of which is one minute, followed by negotiations as usual. Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration, has arrived in the chair and, please, I will give you the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I have the honour to present to you the 2019 report of the Civil Service, which contains the most important human resources indicators and developments. The Public Service Yearbook, as we say about this report, is available on the website of the Ministry of Finance and probably also in the documentation management of the Riigikogu. There are, of course, a lot of numbers, a lot of charts, a lot of characterising material, how these numbers have changed last year in various areas of the public sector and government sector, in 2019 compared to both 2018 and earlier years. There's a pretty good overview. My presentation focuses primarily on the public service and I come here every year to introduce you, because it is one of the duties of the Minister of Public Administration and also the opportunity to introduce this area to the Riigikogu. This also applies to officials of the state and local authorities, but I will also briefly give an overview of the total number of employees and labour costs in the public sector. In order to better understand the proportion of the public service, I would also like to introduce the figures of the general government employees. The public sector is divided into general government and other public sectors. The general government, in turn, consists of three sub-sectors: central government, local government units and social security funds. Other public sector includes companies producing goods and services with state and local government participation, such as Eesti Energia and Tallinn Airport, as well as Eesti Pank. The public sector as a whole employed 132333 employees in 2019. Although the number of people increased by 0.08%, it is important to point out that the number of employees in the public sector has fallen by 9% since 2008. In 2019, the public service, which I am talking about in more detail, represented 20.9% of the public sector staff with 27628 staff. And that percentage is the same as last year. 88% of public sector employees are in the general government sector, which includes central government, the local government sector and social security funds. The general government also includes state and local government authorities, schools, hospitals and cultural institutions. Public services cover only state and local government authorities where public authorities are exercised: for example, ministries, agencies, inspections, urban and rural municipalities. The public service accounted for 4.2% of Estonian employment among the 20-64-year-olds, which has largely remained at the same number in the last three years. The working-age population of Estonia has increased slightly in recent years, but it is still declining in the long term, so the strategic target is 12% of government employees, within which we continued last year. In seven years, the number of civil servants has fallen by 7.8%. However, it is important to note that the decrease in the number of staff has slowed down as the number of tasks carried out by the State in principle has not decreased. In 2019, civil service staff increased by 59 staff, or 0.2%. The number of civil servants increased by 54 in the national authorities, while the number of civil servants increased by five in local governments. The number of civil servants has increased most in the area of the Ministry of Defence, where the Defence Forces are the biggest influence, as well as the Special Services of the Police and Border Guard Board. It has also clearly been a political priority that the number of special servants has been increased. If we compare with the rest of the public service, the number of officials has fallen to about the same extent as the number of special service staff has increased. The largest number of public servants has been in the area of government of the Ministry of Justice, which has been most affected by the Tallinn Prison, Viru Prison and Harju County Court. In the administration of the Ministry of Justice, there is also no problem with the fact that there are very many vacant places, especially in prisons. There is a need to make a serious effort in this regard and to continue to pay attention to it. Of the civil service staff, 22059 served with the public authorities and 5569 served with the local authorities. About one third of civil servants were special servants, who in 2019 were in total 10147 in Estonia. Special servants are police officers, rescue officers, prison officers, military personnel, etc. The number of special servants then increased by a percentage, i.e. 112 jobs. For a comprehensive view, I would add that in the government sector last year, the area of government of the Ministry of Defence and Internal Affairs, the University of Tartu Hospital, the Northern Estonian Regional Hospital and the Viljandi Hospital grew the most in terms of staff. The number of employees decreased the most at Innove Foundation, Tallinn University of Technology, University of Tartu and the Ministry of Culture. And it's also been a trend in recent years. However, we know that the number of healthcare services is increasing from year to year and in healthcare institutions, hospitals have more employees every year, not fewer workers. So this must also be taken into account when we calculate the government figures back and forth here. Wage growth has been somewhat faster than the average wage growth in the general market, much more so in order to increase the competitiveness of the wages of priority groups: internal security, police, rescue, also the Defence Forces, teachers, social welfare. In these areas, average wage growth in the government sector has been faster than, say, ordinary government officials. When comparing the wage levels of the institutions participating in the Fontes Wage Survey with the labour market wage levels, the average monthly deficit of public authorities in 2019 was 11.7% of the overall market median, including top specialists and primary managers, on average 18%. This is an independent study that shows the value level of the salary of different service groups. And this has also been the case historically all the time that the private sector has higher wages and, to a certain extent, wages are higher in the private sector because there are also higher risks. And, let's say there must definitely be some gap in the private sector. It's always a question of how big. The main problem is that the private and public sectors compete for labour in the labour market. Even now, I can mention a number of areas where there is a serious problem. I have already mentioned prisons, which is perhaps such a specific problem. Lately, there is also a concrete example of my administration: my most, how I say, a better planner found a job in the private sector, because the developments that the private sector is currently looking at, given the planning and environmental impact assessment, are under very strong pressure. Despite these difficult times, several private sector sections also carry out planning work. The average gross monthly wage of national authorities increased by 8.3%, including the fastest growth in internal security agencies and the Defence Forces, the slowest in constitutional institutions and the State Chancellery. The average salary of the public service is higher than the average wage in Estonia, as the structure of the work and educational requirements differ. Staff are generally highly educated, as their work requires high qualifications. In 2019, the proportion of people with higher education in Estonia was 42%. This is when you put the public sector and the private sector together. At the same time, 61% of civil servants with a higher education qualification and 80% of the municipal civil servants had a higher education qualification. This, too, leads to a certain difference in wage increases. In 2019 the average gross monthly wage of officials was EUR 1848 and increased by 8% over the year. The wage growth of civil servants by 8.6% has been 1.2% faster than the overall wage growth of the wage market of 7.4%. And by this, the wage position has improved precisely on the side of the state sector. The wage growth of officials from local authorities has been 2.1% below the overall wage growth in the wage market, i.e. 5.3%. In order to be able to recruit a sufficiently qualified workforce capable of providing a high-quality public service to the public, it is necessary to ensure that public service wages do not fall significantly behind the wage levels of competing jobs. At the same time, the level of public service wages in similar areas of activity should certainly not be the market leader. The general government average gross monthly wage increase of 9.9% was 2.5% faster than the Estonian average gross monthly wage increase of 7.4%. However, the general wage growth of the government sector in 2019 was significantly affected by the increase in the salaries of teachers and cultural workers, as well as by the increase in wages in the areas of internal security and social welfare, which was also faster than average, and by the increase in the wages of the IT institutions, which was indeed quite a lot of money added to the budget. At this point, I would point out, as I have already mentioned, that compared with the equivalent of private sector work, public wages do not prevail over those of the private sector, but fall behind. On the one hand, there is a need to find ways of optimising resources and labour, on the other hand, it is extremely important to find a skilled workforce for public wages who would work in key areas for the state. The voluntary staff flow as a pool is below the critical flow rate, but in a slight upward trend: 8% in the national authorities and 10% in the local authorities. But in some sectors, such as prisons, it was 18%, as far as I know. 4194 staff searches were carried out in the public service, which was 177 fewer than in 2018. The shortage of skilled labour is prevalent in all sectors, as confirmed by the failure of one in five staff searches. The most difficult thing is to find suitable candidates in internal security agencies and the Defence Forces, where one in three failed. The shortage of candidates is also a problem, and around one third of the competitions apply for less than three jobs. The age, gender and national language composition of civil servants has been stable over the years. The average age of a civil servant continues to be 43.5 years, but the average age is still low in recent years. Looking at the gender distribution of civil servants, women are a little more than men. By way of derogation, a special service with more men of younger age can be mentioned. Two words are also about the pay gap, which we are actually monitoring relatively closely for the second year now in this annual report. The public service pay gap is 6.3%, but it is a general pay gap. When we go to see the horizontal pay gap, it's relatively small. The pay gap will certainly continue to be a bigger problem in the private sector, which will increase this pay gap so much, as these figures are shown to us here. A good public service can be provided by an educated and professional civil servant. Continuous and continuous development of staff is necessary to ensure that public service and public-paid workers are competent and responsive to the rapid changes in society in their day-to-day work. On average, 1.05% of the wage costs were used for institutional training in 2019 and this figure has unfortunately fallen slightly in recent years. The reduction in the training budget may represent a challenge for the institutions in the development of staff, as the implementation of the funds of this European Union will end in 2023 and potential sources of funding will be primarily national resources. It is already known today that the European Commission will not allocate money to the direction of administrative capacity in the new period. I'm talking about the country. European Union money is also likely to be used to improve the administrative capacity of local authorities. Competence, reliability and compliance with the principles of official ethics are important values in the Estonian public service. The focus of the Board of Official Ethics is to support Estonian entrepreneurship by the public service, the rights of officials and the organisation of conditions for participation in international events. Key ethical and corruption prevention trainings continued in 2019 in order to introduce an ethical culture of behaviour, focusing on the role of officials and conflicts of interest. The 2019 Civil Service Report also provides an overview of the public service legal framework. The public service was thoroughly reformed in 2013. As you will remember, a new Civil Service Law was passed. The Civil Service Act and the special laws governing public service require further modernisation in order to achieve a coherent and flexible organisation. Staff engaged in similar work shall be treated equally and any distinction within the regulation shall be justified by the needs arising from the duties of the service. In short, from the perspective of the future. With our team in the Ministry of Finance, the Minister of Public Administration, we are looking for new ways of optimising state organisation and activities and making the most effective use of taxpayers' money for the functioning of the state. At the same time, however, we must not give up in quality, nor in the quality of services, but we must significantly improve them. I therefore continue to consider the development of e-state, the wider use of IT solutions in the provision of public services to be important. Undoubtedly, we must also take into account the needs of e-state development when preparing the new funding period for the European Union 2021+. The state must be smarter and more modern and many services can be made automatic so that the need to communicate with public authorities for bureaucratic procedures is reduced for citizens, entrepreneurs and local authorities. The public service must be able to accompany global technological trends and also get used to working with increasing flexibility. Remote work has come to stay. This was demonstrated by the corona crisis. We must also continue to remove public-paid jobs from the capital. I think that the experience of teleworking during the crisis certainly increased these opportunities rather than reduced them. We are also in the process of a project of state houses, in which it is possible to recruit people from all areas of Estonia to institutions and offices, even to ministries, for public service. And more and more has been done lately. With state houses, we can ensure that there is also a job where a person can walk. Often these days you don't have to sit there all week, most work is done at home, but sometimes you need secure data to communicate with your central office. Work patterns are also becoming increasingly flexible in the public sector. I will continue to do my best to ensure that the Estonian public service continues to work effectively, setting an example for other countries both in Europe and beyond. We have a good reputation and good solutions in public administration, which deserve to be presented to others. This is also demonstrated by the great interest of many countries in the organisation of our e-governance. Our advantage is small. We can quickly plan and implement changes. The ability to adapt is certainly one of our competitive advantages in the future. We must value and preserve the people who serve the country. We need to recruit the best experts in our field and to reward and develop them. The state and municipalities must develop as employers and co-estate. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U66	Thank you, good minister. There are also many questions for you. The first question to be asked is Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U67	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister Jaak Aab! In 2019, approximately 10.3% of employees of other nationalities worked in the public service. In 2017, this figure was even slightly higher, i.e. almost 11%. The question is, can you comment on why the proportion of employees of other nationalities is so small and now even in a downward trend? It is also a concern that the proportion of young people in the public service is very low, less than 10%. What do you think can be done to ensure that people living in Estonia whose native language is not Estonian and young people can apply more actively for public sector positions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U68	Thank you. Even before the corona crisis, we were able to adopt an action plan with activities and different programmes to introduce the work of the public sector to people of another national, native language. We are mainly dealing with Russian-speaking people. The Integration Foundation has the greatest role to play there, but other ministries and sectors also contribute. Such simple activities are certainly going to upper secondary schools, introducing this work, being mentoring programs. Our good examples have done so. For example, Dmitri Egorov, who, as you know, has just left for an international institution, but so far the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Finance, has gone to schools to talk about the work of an Estonian state official within the framework of this programme and also to encourage young people with Russian language to apply. We have no distinctions in this respect in the various competitions. This work goes through encouragement, introduction, information. I very much hope that capable people who have another mother tongue will apply to public authorities. Within the framework of the implementation of this action plan, we will see where these bottlenecks are, and perhaps there is something we can do to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U69	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. There is one topic in this report entitled 'Competition in the Public Service'. Here are some examples of the failure of competitions, but also of the lack of interest in the announced competitions. The interesting number is that 21% of the staff searches carried out in 2019 failed. The biggest reason for the failure of competitions has been the lack of suitable candidates or their lack of suitable candidates, such as internal security, the Defence Forces, prison services. If you, as minister, will ever have to present this report on this platform again, what do you think you can do to change this situation? And since you mentioned the Civil Service Act, which was amended in 2013, what exactly would you like to highlight if you came up with proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U71	Thanks for asking. I guess there's a lot of minor problems that can fix these numbers. You mentioned such agencies and jobs, which are always specifically problematic. As you know, in prisons, it's actually a global problem, that turnover is high and it's hard to find people to work. In certain areas, there is nothing to do, as I said, with public wages falling behind private sector wages. In our wage comparison, we also established that environmental specialists, such as the Environmental Board or the Ministry of the Environment, are unfortunately among the poorest in the wage comparison. But we have also briefly spoken in the office that the response has found the subject of the performance pay. At least some common criteria could be found for this. At the moment, every ministry makes its own salary guide, based on the Civil Service Act and certain other human resources instructions, but everyone thinks about it and shares their own salary. It is not stipulated anywhere that the same level of service wages must be the same in all ministries and other institutions. Well, they are a bit of a match between time and time, and we have really paid more attention to certain areas in recent years, including pay. But the problem of competitions in certain sectors is likely to remain. I guess this is where these authorities have to do their own work. Very much depends on the preparation. I don't know, the National Defence Academy is preparing this group's staff, maybe there's a need to pay attention to these people going to work in their own field. There isn't much you can do with orders and bans nowadays, so there's gotta be some kind of motivation, and pay is definitely one thing that affects these competitions that you've been talking about here and which you've brought the numbers on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U72	Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U73	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! You have always described very emotionally the transfer of state enterprises to rural areas and have seen cost savings and improved employment there. However, if the Ministry of Education continues to be in Tallinn and Tartu today, the question arises as to whether there will still be operating cost savings. I have a question about the Rural Promotion Foundation, which was taken from Tallinn to Viljandi. Can you tell me how many employees went from Tallinn to Viljandi? As a result, transport and accommodation costs have probably increased. How much labour was employed there, and what is the cost of operating costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U74	Thank you for your question. As far as the regional location of the various public authorities is concerned, it is a matter which is very close to my heart. I described a process that we actually agreed in the government last August when we endorsed the action plan for state reform. We are trying very hard to support all-Estonian recruitment so that people in Võru, Valga or Põlva can also work in public institutions. They don't have to do this in Tallinn. Most of the jobs in the state sector, including the central government sector, are not simply related to the northern region or to a customer base or service base, and it is possible to recruit people from all over Estonia. And like I said, the corona crisis was a good example. As far as the specific question about the MES is concerned, I do not have such numbers with me. But these tests have been carried out in those institutions that have left the capital, and the general trends are such that they need to be given time. For example, the EAS unit that went to Pärnu had enough time to reorganize its work. And the people who finally found work there were in most of this area, while some people left Tallinn in this connection. Not all people want to live in Tallinn, for example, some of them have roots somewhere in the area and are happy to go back when work is offered there. The same was true with the Türi unit of the Social Insurance Board. Most of this workforce was found locally and these people were very happy to have a job. In terms of costs, it may not always be such a hard-core project, but I say that there has not been much spending there either. These figures were also monitored and supported by some small amounts from the central state reform budget, but it remained in tens or hundreds of thousands. I'm supposed to look into the MES, but I promise you, I'll send those numbers if my officials find them. I hope they do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U75	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U76	Thank you. Good Minister, I read these lines in the public service report: this annual report on the public service provides an overview of the developments in the public service in 2019 and of the most important human resources indicators. There are indeed human resources figures on page 70. But I was unable to find out what were the important developments last year. After all, developments cannot be a change in percentages and changes in salary numbers. In addition to this book, could you tell us a little bit about developments last year?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U77	Thank you! Very good question, Vilja! In fact, developments in this thicker yearbook of public service are also discussed. It also discusses state reform activities. There's quite a lot of these activities. I was talking here about information technology, e-governance development. Such developments take quite a few years. For example, "Reporting 3.0" has created the possibility that personnel and financial matters will no longer have to be reported, machines can communicate with each other, entrepreneurs have to develop small-scale software. It's such a expanding trend. These things happen, and everything is aimed at making it easier, easier, less bureaucratic to deal with a country. The greatest response to these activities or directions has been the consolidation of public authorities. You have also adopted the corresponding drafts in the Riigikogu, the last part of which is the Mobility Board, the agency with this name in the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is being formed. I was asked earlier that you should tell me in advance how much you are saving jobs with it. I abstained from assessments last year because the process is ongoing and the more precise numbers are revealed in the process. I think that when we put together next year's numbers, the biggest consolidation was in the field of the Ministry of Education and Research, where two foundations were abolished. These tasks moved elsewhere and are likely to save quite a lot of jobs. And, of course, the support services moved to the State Support Services Centre. So it's not just some arithmetical equation. Everything is basically prepared, and that's what we dealt with very seriously last year. The trend is still consolidation of support services. In the case of these authorities, these are not merely mathematical calculations because they all have to be very substantively worked out. We need to look at which tasks are duplicated somewhere. We need to find the right place to carry out these tasks. This is how we can save in the long term, because in certain areas the increase in this structure also increased costs. At least now we have drawn a line to the expansion of costs. But if someone expects it to be a huge saving of money, I'll be honest with you, I don't think so. However, we can use the same money for smarter purposes and thus actually make public work better. That may be the most honest explanation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U78	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U79	Thank you. Dear Minister, My question concerns the issue of the pay gap. Yes, indeed, the wage gap in Estonia in general was 22.7% last year. You said that the general pay gap in the public service was 6.3% and horizontally small. But when I look at these extras, there is a very specific list of groups of employees from different public authorities, and you can see numbers ranging from 44% to fourteen percent when you look at this pay gap. Of course, there are lower percentages, too, but they're more prominent. What exactly are you gonna do with that? Does anyone in the country deal more specifically with this issue and examine why the pay gap is so large for specific employees in a particular public institution?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U80	Thank you. Also a topical question, I see! The previous annual reports did not contain this issue at all. It was said that it was difficult to compile these data; now the second year has been introduced into this subject; we consider it important. Indeed, the day-to-day work of the Public Administration and Civil Service Department is actually carried out with staff managers who are regularly trained and informed by reference to the problems that have emerged in this analysis. It's a soft act. Can you do something stronger, I don't know. If we go into these sectors, it turns out that the nature of the work also plays a little role, which often, to a certain extent, still causes this gap. But can it get better? Always can. As I said, we have raised this issue for the second year, and we are seriously trying to shape some human resources policy with the help of ministries and other bodies. Well, what can we do? We can share good advice and guidance. But in the end, a particular institution still decides how it conducts its wage policy. As I said, there are no very solid frameworks in the public sector in Estonia, including in the public service. Each institution is relatively free to shape its own policies, but we certainly refer to this principle as well, so that we can ensure that there is no big pay gap. Comparisons with other countries are also known. It's not our number that's the worst, but if you look inside it, we'll see that there are certain specific areas that should be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U81	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U82	Dear Minister, When Prime Minister Ratas presented the 2019 budget here, he said that the funds were allocated to the institutions to raise wages by 2.5%. Now here we read that the central government's wage bill increased by 10%. The largest part of the central government is the state budget. From which state budget line did this money come, which allowed you to pay 10% more instead of 2.5%? The mist that the work processes were reorganized is not what I want to listen to here, because the number of employees in general did not fall, but even increased by 54 or 59. I would actually like you to answer this question in writing. This current format does not allow for an exhaustive reply anyway. I have a simple question: where, from which budget line did this money come from? If we were told that extra money was allocated to the 2.5% increase, how is it possible that the increase in wages was 10%?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U83	Thank you for your question. I agree to respond in writing. As I said here, the biggest impact on this 9.9% was the increase in salaries for teachers, cultural workers, police officers, rescuers and the IT sector, for which more resources were given priority. As regards this 2.5% and the fact that wages have increased more in the same institutions, it is a matter of competitive pressure. This money has not been allocated separately from the budget. You mentioned 2.5%, and that is what was added to the operating costs. Consequently, savings from other activities have been made to increase wage growth. There's not that much of the money that's in there. But let's look at the average numbers, this is market pressure. As I said, public competitions in the public sector often fail, no employees will be found. And I pointed out at value levels that public and public service salaries fall behind private service groups. So this is the internal pressure that every public authority, every agency must bear in mind: the activities and services must be guaranteed by proper specialists. If we don't, there's gonna be places you're gonna ask, why is that? I heard a social debate here. To say that, in this area, perhaps there will be fewer employees, I do not believe. There will certainly be more employees, and there will certainly be a higher salary to make sure that some problems can be solved once and for all. We're looking more at the local government here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U84	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U85	Good manager! Dear Lord Commander in Chief of the Public Sector Army! That's the kind of thing I'm asking. The salaries of senior civil servants are quite precisely established, there is a formula and the salary changes every year. But the recent hiring of the head of education showed that the system was limping. It's like it really doesn't matter if he gets paid. No formula, the driver can get paid as the minister's mistress or mister thinks. But now, if we look at the competences that are required. As a rule, the heads of these offices are required to have competence. The challenges of the global world must be understood, and there are six competences in total: the designer of the future and the creator of job happiness and so on. No English too, level B2, some C1. But professional competence is not required. Should this model, the 2017 model, be reviewed, or do you think it will do, and it will be great today too? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U86	Thank you for your question. HARNO is the name of this Education and Youth Agency. It's a pretty name, isn't it? Now it's the Director-General. I haven't studied it very thoroughly, in detail, but I have a number that Fontes has identified in the paycheck. The wages of top specialists and managers in the public sector are 18% behind the private sector. That's the simple comment on this salary number. In the private sector, therefore, such professionals, managers of this level, are paid so much wages. I am not talking about other factors, such as banks and elsewhere, where there are holdings and I do not know what things, such as performance wages. But such a middle-level manager gets quite a salary in the private sector. And it's a pretty big responsibility at the Education and Youth Board. After all, it came from a multi-set establishment and now it has to be properly run as a new structure. Is it, like, an answer to the sense of justice of a person or a taxpayer? I don't know, I can't tell. It seems that the salary is excessive, but at the same time I say that the simple reason is that top managers with significantly lower salaries than the private sector simply cannot be hired. It is a labour market that determines its wage level more or less. After all, this is done in a completely public process, which is dealt with by the Senior Officials' Committee of the State Chancellery, where there is also a representative of the Ministry. That's where the candidate is elected, negotiated with him, and if that's the best candidate's salary, that's how it's gonna be. Can the model be improved? I already said here today: always gets fixed. And as noted, even in the public sector or in the public service, some competitions fail. I guess there is better groundwork to be done, perhaps better communication needs to be done, and perhaps there is a need to review and clarify our staff policy. I don't know what to say, I should get into the terms of these competitions, see how much, for example, the level of English or specific professional knowledge is valued. Well, what is he? I can also say in general this way that, like in the private sector, the leaders of the public sector are at the top management level. How much professional knowledge does the Director-General of one of the agencies have? Perhaps he is the head of the organization or, with a modern word, the manager who has to keep the organisation running, and with specialist knowledge, there are other specialists who work alongside the top manager.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U87	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U88	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you for this review. These materials, which we already had at our disposal in advance, are quite a piece of reading to manage all of this and also to be able to ask questions. I'll ask you from your report. You pointed out that social wages have also increased as a priority. It is true that the percentage has been higher: the increase has been 5%, the others 2.5%. But you see, 2.5% of the wage increase on a higher salary can be considerably higher than the social pay, for example, in special care, 5% of the wage increase on a small wage. Has the amount of the relevant salaries been taken into account? And if you're worried about the failure of top management competitions, I know that the social sector is very, very struggling to get employees, because it's just a very hard job and a very small salary.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U89	In particular, as regards 2019, if you look at what took place in the gross monthly wages of the social sector, the increase was 12%. It was still bigger than the average. If you're implying that there has been historically low wages in this area, I agree with that. This is one of the kind of salaries that we have tried to help with purely political decisions, be it the police, the rescue, the same IT area where we were hit hard by the private sector. We are monitoring the situation, and I think it is my job to present my wishes to the government. The government makes budgetary decisions collectively, but I present to the government every time the budget negotiations and the discussion of the country's budgetary strategy a comparison of where these levels are. We simply compare different institutions and agencies within the government sector by group of services, and we also compare them with the private sector. And as I said, it is a great freedom in Estonia that all ministries and other institutions shape their wage policy relatively freely and depending on how much money they have in the budget. So far, there has been no central desire to set any boundaries. I have proposed, as I said today, that we should look seriously at the issue of the pay result, because often the reasons for this are, in the case of the public, to the press in the case of some public authorities, such that we do not suffer criticism. In fact, we need to decide what the content of the performance wage is so that it is more even and fairer. I will be going to the office in the near future to make my proposals on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U90	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U91	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you also for my presentation and review. I mean, with my question, by the local authorities. If we read this report, we will see that the local government staff are actually older than the average, their wages are growing more slowly, their wages are lower. And the turnover of the workforce is also higher. I very much accept the autonomy of the municipalities, of course, but it actually makes the alarm bell ring when all these figures are inclined in one direction. What do you think the reason is? Is this normal first, and if it is not normal, what should be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U92	Thank you, basically the right question again! As the questioner knows, indeed, the municipality within the limits of the money given to it is relatively autonomous. It may take its own staff decisions, including salary decisions. I don't know, two trends hopefully will be reflected in the numbers of the coming years, however, as positive. On the one hand, there was an administrative reform. Whoever's happy with it is an opera on his own. But the figures show that, for example, the number of officials has now increased in the municipalities. In fact, the total number has not decreased, but, let's say, the number of simpler workers has decreased and the number of specialists has increased. That's what we've been tracking separately. This was one of the objectives of the administrative reform so that the areas could be covered by good specialists, so that the municipalities could be more capable, better. And the other thing is, I can't help but mention that over the last three years, the total municipal income has increased by 30% to 2.3 billion. Even this year's results are positive. So please ask your municipality government or council members about their human resources policy. The instruments, I think, have increased so that, in fact, people can be paid competitive wages and then perhaps younger people will also come to work. But how do you say... Unfortunately, most state institutions are connected to many of Tallinn's or Tartu's or other major cities. There are more younger people there, and they come to work. Farther in Estonia, as we know, the demographic situation is that there are more people in old age. And in any case, the composition of the working age population is also such that there is a much higher average age than in large cities, including the private sector, everywhere, right? And this is also reflected in local government figures. I think long-term, decent regional policy may help, but we can talk about this more sometimes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U93	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. My question is about the removal of public-paid jobs. I didn't find much in the report. I know that last year there was a target that I could also be wrong about 1 000 jobs. We've been talking about Pärnu and Central Estonia. Was that purpose accomplished? And the second question: how many state-paid jobs were transferred to South-East Estonia, Põlva-, Võru-, Valgamaa, for example? Or was it backwards?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U94	Thanks for the question! No, luckily it wasn't quite backwards, which was one of my goals. Every agency and other authority, as we speak, is looking for austerity points, consolidation points, it works everywhere. The previous government's 1 000 jobs have been completed, which was 1050 in three years. But we certainly have to take into account that then there was also a reform of the rural governments, during which jobs were reduced. It was meant to compensate, but a little more to compensate. This must continue to be addressed. Well, having been prying this issue for the second time in the government as a minister, I know that it is certainly difficult to take out very large institutions. Tartu is the largest city in the world where a profession can be completely. And Tartu is not bad, the people of the surrounding counties also work in Tartu. It's more complicated with county centers. But I seriously believe that's possible. I went to Hiiumaa, for example. The nature of the institutions' work has changed completely. They deal with half of Estonia from Hiiumaa. The nature of the work must change. You employ a person in Hiiumaa and give him more responsibilities because he doesn't have so much work to do on the ground. Only when dealing with Hiiumaa would it be too busy to work, and then it will also be able to work in the area of the western region. And that's how the work changes. I'm really counting on this over-Estonian recruitment. We haven't gotten those numbers together yet. At the end of the year, we will definitely start to see how much this has worked. Of course, bigger places have an advantage. There are more people out there, there are more free workers, and there are also easier to find skilled workers, right? Let's take the Social Insurance Board, I was talking about this Türi unit, which we made such a decision because of a former Minister for Social Protection, perhaps. For example, EAS came to Pärnu relatively easily, and now more and more jobs are becoming available at the Social Insurance Board in Pärnu. What disappears from Tallinn, they occur in Pärnu. That's great! But there's a problem with smaller counties. I've been trying to set them up, but the general direction is to go where there's a bigger unit ahead. Well, it's easier for institutions to recruit people there, that's one thing. And another thing, I hope, is state houses. If we get such universal jobs there, they will at least physically support this process. That's what we're working on, but it won't go fast. In 2025-2026, these state buildings should all be ready throughout Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U95	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U96	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, I listened to your report and your answers to the questions. It reminds me of a "Railer" sketch where Märt Avandi is going on a marathon run. He's going to win, but they're finally gonna take him down and ask him that you were talking about seconds, but where did the hours go? You say that 5 people came to the local government and 28 employees were down. However, the budgetary strategy targets government employees to make up 11.9% of the working age population. And here you report that in 2019 14.9% of the working age population worked in the government sector. There were 116946 employees in the general government, which means that you are behind the target that the government has wanted to keep, 3000+ people. You speak with great enthusiasm that 5 and 20 people will be reduced and EAS Pärnu 10 people will be reduced, but what is your solution for thousands?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U97	Thank you for your question. It's not over 12%. I don't know what number you gave me. This share of 12% of employees in the number of people of working age continues to be this, has not been exceeded and has been relatively stable since 2008. There's another sector that's more narrowly compared. The share of the general government is set at 12% in the budgetary strategy. I'll show you the number after that. It hasn't increased. And as I said, the number of officials has fallen somewhere here in the numbers is written in the public service, but the number of special servants has increased. So this is going to be more or less plus/minus zero, a little bit of growth. But if we wanted it to be more effective, the executive would be about 30,000. I'd leave special servants out of there, that's all else, other servants. It has been asked how much we can save jobs through public reform activities. I have offered that it is quite real, given consolidation, such as consolidation of support services, consolidation of information and communication services, lab improvement plans, we have a lot of activities in progress, to save 300-330 jobs. Why didn't this show up last year? Because last year these activities started. If I come next year and these numbers haven't decreased a bit, that's what you can do to me. I don't know if I can do this, and I'm not doing it alone, it's the authorities, all these agencies and ministries and the government collectively.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U98	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U99	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'm coming up with a theme called "Quality of Control," which I've been talking about a little bit. At the presentation of the report last year, at the presentation of the report the year before last, I asked about development discussions, which had been held considerably less, although they are mandatory. In this year's report, I didn't see that number, maybe I wasn't looking hard enough. But why don't you answer the question about how this year was? And my second question concerns competitions for top executives. Consider two examples of which the Health Board's is an even more acute question. We have two major occupations: Health Board and Tax and Customs Board, where the previous leader has left and no new leader has been found. There's been plenty of time. People have reported leaving before. Why are these things taking so long?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U100	Thank you! As far as I know, the head of the Tax and Customs Board announced long enough in advance when he would leave. Right now, as far as I know, he's still fulfilling his responsibilities. But choices are made at the request of the relevant ministries. The Committee of Senior Officials of the State Chancellery will deal with this. As far as I know, 28 September is the deadline for the Director-General of the Tax and Customs Board, and I hope that after that a dignified candidate will be elected. As far as I know, the deadline for the Head of the Financial Intelligence Unit is 28 September. For the health department, I owe you an answer right now. Since I'm at the Treasury Department, these other things I know better. About the head of the Health Board, the Minister for Social Affairs has to ask how, in what schedule, things are going. I don't know that. The general aim is to find good leaders, good employees, as I said. And if you don't find them or if there's a lot of fluidity, places aren't filled, then you have to look inside the institution for a reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U101	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U102	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In the report, you have probably now, for the first time, reflected the very popular issue of gender inequality. I understand that this is a modern and sexy subject, but it turns out that the gap in men's and women's wages is really big. I do not know if you have used any bizarre calculation model or whether men are really paid more than women for the same work in local governments and state institutions in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U103	Thank you for your question. The methodology is the same as that used for the calculation of the overall wage gap. And this overall pay gap, as far as I know, does not take into account the very specific horizontal pay gap, it takes into account the overall pay gap, how men's and women's wages differ. If we go to a horizontal comparison, the overall pay gap in public service was 6.4%, and in the private sector, as far as I know, it is more than 20% boldly. There is not much to blame for the public service in this respect. And most of this pay gap is still likely to result from the fact that at certain levels with higher salaries, more men than women work. At the same time, women work more in the public service than men. So I wouldn't say we have a very big problem. But we'll have to make sure it doesn't become a big problem. As one questioner pointed out here, in certain sectors, in certain institutions, somehow this is the difference and it needs to be looked at. But there's no such direction anywhere that you have to pay one more or the other less. Still, the direction is that just as good people get equal pay.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U104	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U105	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Today we have the perfect match. I'll pick up exactly where Urmas ended up. My question also concerns the gender pay gap. On the one hand, it is a pleasure to note that the report reflects this and that the pay gap is narrowing for several years in a row. In the last three years, it has always decreased by a few percent. If you look at this more precisely, the pay gap for top managers has narrowed from 10% to 1% in the last year, but increased from 5% to 8.4% for specialists. At the same time, we have so few top executives that this figure may be due to some change in individual posts or change in people. However, in the area where the largest number of workers is present, this figure has rather increased. As posts have been assessed and it is really possible to analyse this horizontal pay gap in the public sector in essence, I ask: are there plans for action next year to achieve a permanent reduction in the pay gap in these more numerous groups?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U106	Thank you. As I said, these analyses and comparisons are, after all, daily work for human resource managers in certain institutions, as well as for decision-makers. Indeed, we have done this work more precisely this year; last year the data were slightly relative. They're getting better. We can point to shortcomings and, in fact, we organise different information days, training sessions for the HR managers. These same things are brought out again and again, they say, "Look inside it, make decisions to make it better." And next year we can see if the stories have improved or not. If not, we can point again. There's no other way to do it. But as you said, in recent years, this problem has gotten smaller in public service. I hope that this trend will continue to be positive. Perhaps this data will also give an incentive to look more closely at where the problem is. Not limited to general numbers. I hope this can fix it. But I assure you that my department, the Department of Public Administration and the Public Service, works every day. He works very closely with the human resource managers and other managers of the agencies and ministries. Deputy chancellors and chancellors will also receive all these reviews, they will all be proved. I very much hope that these lessons will be learned and that these decisions will be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U107	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U108	Good President! Minister, thank you very much. Both your predecessors and you have dealt with the transfer of public service posts to the regions. This report says that 36% of the public service in Tallinn, 13% in Tartu, and only 3.2% of the Estonian public service in Narva, my favourite city. I compare the incomparable, but Ida-Viru County employs 12% of all local government employees in local governments. Do you intend to continue working towards Ida-Virumaa? The further away from Tallinn, the more support and leadership are needed for the removal of posts. If you're planning this, which sectors? Is it expanding or deepening higher education or internal security departments or something else?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U109	As I said, I also considered it necessary, in the previous government, to analyse the situation quite seriously. Something happened to the authorities and even Narva. Integration Foundation, Estonian House, Estonian Academy of Home Affairs What is it? The study base or, yes, the study building, which is either ready or ready immediately. [[Katri Raik will comment on the floor.]] Okay! You see, something's happened. I think we need to face the problem, as you pointed out. One such development engine in Ida-Virumaa is probably education, including applied higher education. This issue has also been raised in the context of a fair transition fund and a fair transition plan. This is one of the priorities of action, both in line with country-specific recommendations and throughout the fair transition process. That is what the European Commission has said to us in this way, too, not very coercively. In fact, we also follow the recommendations of the semester and they are more or less in the same direction. I very much hope that professional higher education in Ida-Virumaa, in cooperation with universities and competence centres, will receive a certain boost for development. On the one hand, we are saying that there are many unemployed people in Ida-Viru County, the unemployment rate is high. But when we go to companies, we see that today, even in Ida-Virumaa, ordinary workers are no longer needed behind the line, in fact, computer operators are needed to run the processes. And therefore, at least a certain level of computer knowledge, automation knowledge is needed. Well, robotronics have been spoken in a lot of institutions, and there's a lot of robots in the industry. These proposals have been heard. So I think that one way to create good, rewarding and diverse jobs in the future is to start with education. With one clap, it is, of course, possible to support certain entrepreneurs who are good and create jobs, but if there is no workforce there will be another border. There are different activities in this direction, and I am positive in this respect. I think we can do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U110	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U111	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Complex topics you have every day, 7 times 24... And each of us will be waiting here for you and your colleagues to contribute if you continue to try to do so-called good jobs everywhere. I'm going the other way. With today's regional policy, which is also your property, I have this problem very much. We're trying to get jobs anywhere, but at the same time we're shutting down schools, we're shutting down hospital-specific departments. We're gonna clean up a lot of stuff, but there's actually specialists on the ground who probably won't go sweeping the street. Have you analyzed what kind of relationship it's going to be like? We think we've cleaned up the system and wanted to do it well, but the world's experience shows that major hospitals are not better than some small hospitals and are not better than major schools. Maybe this side needs some thought-through.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U112	Thank you for your question. Regional policy is not an abstract area, somewhere high. It consists of health care, school, living environment, roads, housing. And all of these, after all, are not going to deny, are the problems in the Estonian regions. The main reason is that people have just come out of there for various reasons: has there been a good job, some crises have hit rural areas hard... I'm not just talking about real rural areas, I'm talking about county centers and other centres. And then we have not been able to balance this with the various activities of regional policy. The trend is, of course, global. Urbanisation is a global process, people are moving into cities. But we should do our utmost to somehow support the business environment, to support the living environment in rural areas as well. Some examples of what we have done lately: for example, reconstruction of apartment buildings, which was previously limited to larger cities. We have created certain measures, which are also edible in rural areas. You can also obtain a loan from KredEx if the bank does not grant a loan to clean up its apartment building. Local authorities also have a great deal to do. Well, what have we done? Local authorities have received more resources. If you have been around Estonia, you will see that in recent years it has become effective. They're gonna fix the roads, they're gonna fix the schools. But I say that this should have been done much earlier and much more forcefully. There is nothing going on overnight, but I very much hope that, if we look now at the distribution of these European Union funds, at the different national measures, for example, on health and social welfare, rural areas are a little more priority. At the same time, it cannot be said that we are distributing everything on Tallinn's account somewhere. I do not agree with what the President said a little. Tallinn has a role to play and other cities have a role to play. There is education, there is science, there are many other areas that can be developed in our conditions of certain sizes. Or innovation and a series of other things. For example, basic services must be guaranteed. Very simple wishes are: even gravel roads, housing, a good job, if I have it all, I will not get out of there. I guess we're tasting the fruits of the last crisis a little bit. Still a lot of people left. Most, in percentage, the majority went from outside Tallinn and Tartu to Finland when I just named one country. They're coming back quietly now, but we should create conditions for them to come back faster. Maybe it's not all coming anymore. Some of them are already settled abroad. But in South-East Estonia, for example, we had state officials working in the field in South-East Estonia and when we compared certain areas, it turned out that more than half of South-East Estonia's municipalities had a positive balance of migration already last year. People either come back from Finland or come back from the city to the country. But the natural growth is unfortunately negative, although it also occasionally improves. So we're working with the local governments. The country cannot go alone and gold out all the countryside. Municipalities, entrepreneurs, we can support them, create conditions for them. And then it's possible that this process will at least slow down, it won't accelerate. But for him to turn the other way, it's a long-term process. It won't happen overnight, I'll tell you that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U113	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U114	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! One more question came up. I thought I wouldn't keep you very long, but I'd ask you a little bit about administrative reform. We all know you as a very strong leader of the supporters of administrative reform. As we know, the administrative reform was made to this end, one of its aims being to achieve cost savings: the reform brings together smaller municipalities, eliminates duplication of jobs and achieves savings. From this report, I read that in the past year, the opposite has happened, that more people have come. The number of local government employees has increased by 532 employees, with a total of 1%. And apparently there has been an increase in wage costs. And it also says here that it does not include elected and appointed employees, i.e. mayors and parish elders, whose salaries were exponentially increased after the administrative reform. Where's the savings? That was supposed to be one of the goals, wasn't it? The thing is, we wanted the best, but it turned out the same way we always did.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U115	First of all, I must remind you that, in this form, I was not the great praiser of the administrative reform. I had to finish this because I came to the office of this minister when it was in the final leg and it was not possible to reverse the reform at the time. I think all of this could have been done better. When you ask about wage costs, one of the reasons was that the merged municipalities harmonised a lot in all sectors, be they social workers or teachers. They were mostly aligned to the highest level in these entities. That was one reason why wages rose, and that was objectively. Some salaries were still very low, for example, the pay gap between kindergarten teachers in Estonia was double in the past. During the previous government, we began to support the salaries of kindergarten teachers, but on the condition that the municipalities themselves contribute. Now the level has gone even and I'd say almost normal. You can't just look at it as a cost, and like I said, it's not like that. I told you the total municipal income has increased by 30%. There will be no major savings in this reform. This effect is now evident in the fact that better specialists have been hired, but they also need a little more money. But the municipality can do all its tasks well. In small municipalities there were 0.2 construction advisors, 0.2 planners, and they walked around in such a way that they reached full load. But now most of these jobs are filled with one competent person, and that is, I think, the greatest effect. Perhaps because of this, the capacity to carry out development work has improved, investments in local governments have improved. I can't tell you how much it has to do with the fact that there is more money or more competence. The municipalities are still very different. But I would like to remind you that we have a very large degree of autonomy given to the municipalities in the Constitution. But, for example, there is an agreement on teachers' salaries. Minimum wages are set, the municipality can add more or less to a part of it. The salaries of other officials are purely self-designed by the municipality. And I wouldn't say they're so overpaid. If we know that in some local government someone got so much before, now gets so much, then you have to look at why they now get so much, whether it's justified or not justified. Sometimes it feels like it isn't. I very much hope that, in fact, overall, the municipalities have become more capable. And, well, maybe a little bit of the realization was that the reform was center-based. These are the cards now, and I'm a little sorry about that. That 5000 was a relatively free choice, and then these choices may not have been the most rational. But if you look at the whole picture, it just got better, and I think it's gonna be more. Of course, it is always a question of how far power goes from man. Now this is the wisdom of the local governments, which I have always said: you must see that the periphery of your parish does not become larger periphery. It is important to consider how a local person is involved in life through a village elder, through an administrative body, with any model. This danger certainly exists that a person feels less and less in touch with local authority. But it's very much in the hands of local leaders how they can keep that connection.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U116	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U117	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! As we know, on 1 January, the reform concerning the marginal age and special pension of active troops and police officers came into force, the name of which is the abolition of special pensions for those who now enter the service and the increase of the maximum age of the active army to the age of retirement. How do you think this reform will affect the recruitment of personnel to the police and the Defence Forces? Positive or negative? And is there no danger that active soldiers approaching the age limit will simply not be able to carry out their duties properly, mentally or physically? And, for example, is there not a threat to the decline in the fighting power of the Defence Forces, purely because the old ones do not move away and the young ones do not have positions and just the average age is getting unreasonably high? That's three questions at a time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U118	Thank you for your question. I have to say right now that you are certainly a much better specialist in this field than I am. Well, I guess there's been a problem with the special services. For example, one decision was made that a policeman receiving a special pension could now work in the same police department. He couldn't before. When he went to work, he didn't get a special pension. But how can we now make sure that the Defence Forces ensure that the young workforce grows or is more successful in recruiting? I know that in the Defence Forces, well, that's one of the areas that has been highlighted, there have been recruitment problems. Well, I can't say this is the weakest area, but there's been a problem with recruitment, just like the Prisons Department. They should be looked inside, but it's more the job of the Secretary of Defense and the Department of Defense. I can point out the weaknesses in the whole structure, the structure of government, but a decision should be made in a specific area. And I think you can certainly make these proposals when you see that there are such levers that can be repaired.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U119	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U120	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. I know you walk around the Republic a lot and have a pretty good picture of everything that's going on. But as a man of Ida-Virumaa, I'd like to ask you another way to say it, puppet. How do you appreciate the knowledge of the Estonian language of officials in our area, and not only the state officials whose language skills are slightly better, but also the local government staff and also the teachers who teach children in Russian schools and should speak Estonian quite well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U121	Thank you for your question. This problem is known to be specific in education, especially in some regions, including Ida-Virumaa. After all, there are a lot of Russian-speaking people in these cities or people from a Russian-speaking family. It's not easy to find teachers there. Even with this certain wage supplement, it is difficult to find teachers; the teachers of Estonian must have a wage supplement there. That's really a problem. We are now looking again, I hope, seriously, at the end of Ida-Virumaa. Maybe with the help of the local colleges, we can improve the preparation of these people. I think that creating relatively normal living conditions in the towns of Ida-Viru will make it easier to find a workforce there. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U122	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Kersti Sarapuu Central Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U123	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for presenting the report and, of course, for his very thorough answers to the questioners. The Civil Service Report is part of the process of making public administration as a whole more transparent. From the point of view of the country's development, it is also necessary to better target resources and to see bottlenecks. The truth is, the public sector has always been under the radar. We often hear that redundant officials need to be concentrated, duplicated or merged. Over the years, we have actually moved in this direction, still so that our state apparatus is efficient and flexible and we can sustain it. As we have just heard, the public sector as a whole has 132333 employees in 2019. These are not just government officials, there are teachers, police workers, medics, rescuers and many others. Since 2008, the number of employees in the public sector has fallen by 9%. But this isn't the place to say stop, that's enough. As a smart small country, we must continue to seek effective and modern solutions. We already have a lot of useful e-services today that facilitate a number of activities, and we must undoubtedly make a consistent contribution to the development of new services. E-solutions have come to stay and increased the quality and efficiency of public services. Of course, they will forcefully reduce the army of officials, but we need to think about which solutions would be best given the interests of our country and our people. On the other hand, not all activities can be replaced by machines, because it is not conceivable that the quality of services essential for people will suffer. However, human well-being should remain a priority. It is important to be satisfied with the steps that the administrative reform has already taken for the Estonian municipalities. The capacity of Estonian cities and rural municipalities has increased and as a result of the merger there are more resources to be allocated to the provision of high-quality services and self-governing tasks. The changes have also led to an increase in the competence of officials in the form of better specialists. We will need this in the future, which is why I support the principle that recruitment for public service must be more flexible, first of all because the shortage of skilled labour is prevalent in all sectors, but on the other hand, people in counties deserve to work for the state. The level of salaries of civil servants, which is higher than the average wage in Estonia, has certainly been widely heard. In addition, their wage growth has also been a little more rapid, but above all because in recent years the government has contributed, for example, to internal security and to teachers' pay. At the same time, there are still jobs in the public sector that are lagging behind equivalent private sector jobs. Here is the same example that the Minister has just given: the pay scissors between the state and private sector leaders can reach up to 18%. If we want a successful country, we need to invest in good leadership. In conclusion, 2019 was a very good year for the public sector. As a small country, Estonia certainly has many advantages that we must take advantage of in our own interest. The aim must be for the public service to be reliable and of good repute, for our staff to be constantly developed and rewarded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U124	Thank you. Heiki Hepner, please, on behalf of the Isamaa Group!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U125	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much also from the Isamaa Group for this comprehensive review and report. When I read this report, I noticed a clear line, which I opened up a little bit on my question, but it is my desire to draw a little more attention to it and to share it with you, ladies and gentlemen. We're talking local governments. Somehow systematically local authorities remained on the same edge, whether it is the higher average age of staff or the average salary, which is clearly lower. Whether this is the ratio to the average wage, which is 1.19 to 1.23 or less than the average wage of a public official, the ratio is 1.32 to 1.34 for the average salary of a public official. Actually, it's a very serious point. And if we look at the turnover of the staff here, it is clearly larger in the municipalities too. I understand that the state is concerned that the public sector must compete with the private sector, but the local government must compete with both the public sector and the private sector. And so it is that local government officials often move quite quickly to other positions. I admit that the package of crisis measures that we allocated to the municipalities this year was very positive. It was very important, and without it, the situation would actually have been quite difficult. And it's worth it, let's say, grateful, it's worth being satisfied. However, it cannot be such a final solution that we are somehow regulating this problem on the basis of crisis assistance. It should be systemic, but it really requires, as the Minister said, good regional policy. I agree with that one hundred percent, and that's what we should all really think about together. This, in turn, requires a very serious look at the revenue base of the municipalities. I am a passionate admirer of the autonomy of local governments, but I am equally convinced that municipalities do not pay less to their employees-officials, not because they do not want to pay more, but because they look at the big picture and their financial capacity. The truth is that we really were able to do some relief steps with administrative reform, but there is still a rise in the qualifications of officials. I do not think there is such a sustainable solution. I will give just one example that has been discussed for a long time. This concerns the revenue base of the municipalities. It has been said for years that strict protected zones have been left... Can I have an extension?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U126	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U127	... has not been reimbursed to the municipalities for the land tax which is not collected from strictly protected areas. And actually, it's about three million or a little more euros. But there's no way they can do that, they're still optimizing it. This is the amount of money that sometimes seems relatively small, but which raises large sums of money and the local governments' income base suffers. My wish is that at one point, even in the course of the debate on state reform, we will get deeper into the problems of local governments and resolve these problems. I hope that if we listen to the report on the public service in this Riigikogu, which concerns the year 2020 or 2021, we will already be able to say that we have taken further steps in this regard as well. The public service is just as strong as its weakest link. I very much wish that this weakest link would not be the municipality and that, in fact, all these chain links would have equal strength. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U128	Thank you. The political groups have no further wish for negotiations. Thank you to the Minister. Thank you to all members of the Riigikogu who took part in the debate. We have discussed the report of the public service in 2019.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U129	Let's keep going. Today's last item is a free microphone. Everyone has the opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after a hammer hit. Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U130	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good groupmates! A good representative of the opposite breast! I would like to mediate for you the statement of the parliamentary group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Last week, the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, delivered a traditional annual speech before the European Parliament, giving an overview of the Union's central plans for the future. In his speech von der Leyen promised, among other things, to fight a common migration policy of the European Union, a compulsory quota system for Member States, to come up with a new European Union penal policy in order to combat 'hate speech' and 'gravity', to centralise the monetary union and to fight for the recognition by the Member States of the European Union of the right of same-sex couples to adopt. Thus, in his programme speech, the President of the European Commission made it clear that the European Union wants to take on ever greater control over the social policies, migration policies and economic policies of the Member States. The faction of the Estonian Conservative People's Party clearly states here: it will not work. The continuing attempts by Brussels to cut the decision-making power of the Member States are absolutely unacceptable to us. We do not agree to delegate to the European Commission decisions on the monetary policy we are pursuing. We do not agree to let Brussels decide how many intruders we will receive. Migration policy is part of the sovereign policy of each Member State, which cannot be decided by the institutions of the European Union. We are not willing to accept the restriction of freedom of speech under the law of hate speech. The fight against hate speech, as we know perfectly well, is, above all, a Malaka, which seeks to silence the political forces, states and movements that stand against national and mass immigration. Nor do we agree to submit to the ideological dictatorship of the colour of the rainbow in Brussels and to change the basis of the family policy of our country under its influence. The Conservatives see the future of Estonia only in a European Union that respects the right of the Member States to decide their own future. The European Union must be responsible for the economic development of the Member States, for creating jobs and for improving the standard of living of the citizens of the nation states. Every Member State of the European Union must retain an inalienable right to sovereignty, that is to say, political decisions based on its constitution in the first instance. And for my part, at the end of this I would like to quote the point made by Mr Jörg Muthen, Ambassador of the Alternative für Deutschland, which he expressed after listening to Mr von der Leyen's speech. Meuthen said that the European Union is not a country, von der Leyen is not a head of state. The Estonian Conservatives and our European thinkers, I promise, will make every effort to keep it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-21_U131	Thank you. There's no further call request. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. Thank you. See you tomorrow!
