ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U1	Good morning, honourable members of the Riigikogu. We will start the 16th working week Thursday session of the 3rd plenary session. On behalf of the Bureau, I am prepared to accept inquiries and drafts. There is no request for referral of inquiries or drafts. So presence control, please! 70 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 31.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U2	Let us begin by addressing the issues on today's agenda. The first item is the Financial Supervision Authority report for 2019. The rapporteur is Kilvar Kessler, Chairman of the Management Board of the Financial Supervision Authority. But before you explain it and know it, there's up to 20 minutes to report. Following questions, each member of the Riigikogu can ask one oral question. Representatives of the political groups may take the floor during the negotiations. That's the framework, then. Let us begin with the first item on the agenda. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, Kilvar Kessler.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U3	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! No word?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U4	Please speak a little louder. These microphones are rigged in a way that isn't meant to be touched.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U5	All right, I'll say it again. Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I hope you can hear better now. Very good! I am pleased to report to you on the activities of the Financial Supervision Authority in 2019. The requirement is derived from § 51 (4) of the Financial Supervision Authority Act. I am talking about the development of the Estonian financial market and our work in 2019. I believe that most of the trends that emerged in 2019 will survive the corona crisis and therefore deserve to be addressed. I will also look at the impact of the coronal apandemia on our financial sector. The Financial Supervision Authority is supervised by 300 financial intermediaries: banks, insurance companies, management companies, insurance brokers, paying agencies, etc. The Estonian financial sector has 99% legal personality in the European Union. Our small financial intermediaries must meet the same requirements as the European giants. Of course, when applying financial supervision standards, it takes into account the size and complexity of the business, but it is not quite possible to ignore the book of bold European Union law. This book contains about 600 pieces of legislation and guidelines that must be complied with and monitored by the Financial Supervision Authority, with the same quality as colleagues from the Netherlands, Italy, Portugal and Finland. On the one hand, this means greater consumer protection, on the other hand, higher operating costs for financial intermediaries. As financial intermediaries are profit-making businesses, each cent cost reduces profits if income remains the same. Income, however, depends on the number, profile and wealth of customers. There are 1.3 million inhabitants in Estonia, which is more than four times less than in Finland. There are only 102 cities in China with more than one million inhabitants. The good news is that in ten years the Estonian population has not decreased much, but it has become quite old. As far as wealth is concerned, household bank accounts have savings of more than 7.5 billion. It's almost doubled in ten years. Finland has a corresponding number of 102 billion. In order to be comparable, this means that on average Finnish households have three times higher savings. At the same time, our strength is significantly lower in household debt. We are a small and not yet very rich country, it determines the product portfolio of financial intermediaries: classical deposits and crediting in banking, traffic and insurance, compulsory pension funds in asset management. The economy is small and households with too little savings to get wings on the stock market. Other investment products are still looking for their place in Estonia. If the product rainbow is easy, it can be effective by automation. In the financial sector, this is particularly reflected in IT solutions. 99.6% of bank transactions are made electronically in Estonia. On the number of card payments per person, we are seventh in the European Union, ahead of Baltic friends, but also, for example, France, which first introduced smart bank cards in the world in 1988. From the use of the Internet Bank, we are clearly at the forefront of the euro area with Finland, the Netherlands and the Baltic countries. The complex acquis, the low number of consumers who only gain wealth and the good ICT environment have led to concentration, adjustment and rapid growth in certain segments of the Baltic financial sector. These are the keywords that I now consider each and every one of them separately. In recent years, we have experienced a number of cross-border concentrations between market participants. The main drivers of these events are the effects of scale and the search for profitability. Decisions on the countries of destination of concentrations are influenced by overall assessments of the environments of the respective countries, up to the ambitions of the internal staff of the merging financial intermediaries. For example, Estonia is in a difficult position to compete with Lithuania because its labour and office costs are lower, and their market is twice as large in terms of the number of people. At the same time, we generally have a better quality management of credit portfolios. This can be both positive and negative. We have a more inclusive Nordic management culture in our opinion. Financial supervision's view of concentrations is based on the law. Headquarters in Estonia may mean more employment, but may not mean more employment. On the other hand, in banking, for example, this also means greater risks to the Estonian state budget. As a rule, together with the licence, we also want to see real activities in Estonia, employment and other contributions to this society, not only being a mailbox, where Estonia is a gateway to the wider regulated financial market, in order to generate revenue, while only risks remain. While the above-mentioned concentration as a trend is more clearly delimitable, adaptation as a keyword covers a wider range of questions. This can mean a broader business strategy, product selection, organisational structure, size and quality of capital and buffers to cover risks. However, in the case of adaptation, I note here an aspect that can be celebrated with the title 'Professional Banking'. I will address the issue of more professional or, more specifically, more human-centred banking through the so-called bank account case. The law requires a banker to know his client. This is necessary for the definition, measurement and management of risks, including for the purpose of combating crime, money laundering and terrorist financing and prevention. Understandable and logical. In the financial year 2019, we have dealt with cases where the bank has closed a bank account, indicating to the former customer that it was the result of an inspection request. The client may have the impression that the poor credit institution does not want to close the account, but the inspection forces. It's just wrong. Each financial intermediary in a market economy sets its own risk appetite, shapes its own operations. However, according to the risk-bearing nature of the business, the laws and instructions impose obligations on market participants. The riskier the business, the greater the liabilities. Financial supervision shall monitor compliance with these standards. In view of the weak competition in our banking market, a simple final closure of a bank account, i.e. a simple release from the risk, should not be a default solution, but only a move at the very end of the day, at the exhaustion of others. However, this is a possible move, since there are also those customers who refuse to provide the bank with the necessary information or engage in illegal activities. Mechanistic communication with the client is a different and perhaps more important bottleneck. From personal experience, I know that most conflicts can be solved by talking, communicating. Listening to a person, explaining the situation, explaining the behavior. I studied in the United States about 20 years ago, and of course I need a bank account there to live and pay my bills. I still remember that when I opened a bank account and then I went to a bank office from time to time, the teller greeted me by name before I could give him my identity card. I don't know how this was possible, either it was a very good memory of a person or it had some other way of identifying a poor student. But it did make an impression. Seemed like a professional banker. A professional banker is not above all a person who knows mathematics and subtleties about it anyway, it is a default assumption just a professional banker is a person who knows and senses people, business, environment, trends, who is a very good communicator. In order to achieve risk-sensitive control systems, including with regard to bank accounts, we have directed banks to invest in substantial amounts and monitor this process. It is certainly a good lesson for the financial industry to learn when occasional faulty communication with the customer turns into a legislative initiative which, if realised, is more costly for the sector than it would have been in the beginning to invest in impeccable communication. Looking at the whole picture and being in dialogue with bank managers, I'd rather be an optimist and see a clear desire to adapt. Due to modest competition, Estonian market leaders have been able to design products and choose customers. This has led to unmet demand, not only in the form of dry launderers, but also in good fun or untapped business opportunities. Consumer credit is a good example. Next keyword: 'growth'. In 2019, we saw rapid growth, especially in smaller market players. For example, a bank focused on providing consumer credit increased its 232 million credit portfolio to EUR 347 million over the year. They filled an empty niche with their offer, not only in Estonia, but in the wider region. On the one hand, the growth of smaller market players strengthens competition and is very positive. Financial supervision notes a rapid growth but also a sign of danger: it may be asked whether the organisation can cope with the risks it takes, whether there is sufficient capital, whether the quality of the credit is high enough at source, whether the managers and the organisation are prepared for these challenges. It is clear that bankers do not grow on trees in Estonia either, and Soviet power has caused interruptions to financialists over generations. By the way, in Europe, I have come to develop these standards, what experience a bank manager must have, to argue that a bank manager must necessarily have a banking career of over 30 years. In Estonia, it would be very difficult to find bank managers at all. Luckily, my arguments came to an understanding. The concentration, adjustment and growth of these trends within the framework of the law is the duty of financial supervision to ensure the orderly and legitimate functioning of the financial market. Financial supervision ensures this by gathering information, analysing, directing market participants and deciding on a daily basis. As the smallest financial supervisory authority in the European Union, we decided 220 administrative acts in 2019. We granted rights, for example, to Lumori's accession and took rights, for example, we ceased the activities of Danske branch in Estonia. We made commitments, for example for smaller banks, to keep EUR 56 million as an additional buffer to cover risks. We have set out that large banks should have this amount of EUR 471 million. We decide on complex financial and very high financial risk issues in Tallinn and Frankfurt every week, while being personally financially responsible. The only beacon at sea is law and help with long-term surveillance experience. In the current management board of the Financial Supervision Authority, most colleagues have started working in the financial sector in the mid-1990s, in financial supervision, as a lawyer who controlled the financial sector. We are complemented and balanced by experienced and new colleagues in the organisation. Last year we changed the organisation of the Financial Supervision Authority to make even better monitoring and resolution of crises. We have, in fact, joined the Guarantee Fund, because in our small market, there is no point in keeping a separate administrative apparatus in the Guarantee Fund in operation during the period outside the crisis, whereas employees of the Guarantee Fund are not enough to deal with the compensation case anyway. For example, if a bank loses its licence and deposits have to be reimbursed to depositors, this is the case. Versobank's closure experience was a crystal clear proof of the necessity of this change. When the Coronary Apandemia broke out, we quickly switched to teleworking, implementing the information technology capabilities available in cooperation with the central bank. Our oversight work did not stop for a moment. On the contrary, we internally regrouped capabilities to map the immediate and far-reaching impact of the corona apandemia on the financial sector. After managing rapid risks, especially in the area of credit liquidity risk, we are preparing for an increased realisation of credit risk in the near future. It is clear that in the event of an economic downturn, some businesses and business models will no longer work. If these businesses have borrowed from the bank, this will mean that the credit risk to the bank will materialise. The loans are granted at the expense of depositors who have put their money at the bank's disposal. The thicker the buffers collected by banks in good times, the greater the credit losses the bank will be able to absorb in the crisis without the funds of depositors actually being put at risk. As a financial supervisory authority, we took the necessary steps to ensure the stability of the banking sector and the reasonable treatment of our customers in practically immediate implementation of the emergency situation. To save time, I note only two of them, which have the greatest impact. Firstly, the suspension of the payment of banks' profits. Of the total buffer of 3.5 billion banks, accumulated profits total 2.1 billion. In comparison, financial supervision has committed to saving individual risk buffers of EUR 527 million in 2019. The law automatically results from 435 million macro buffers and the central banks have decided to circa 350 million macro buffers. Therefore, at the beginning of the corona crisis, limiting the distribution of profits was a key issue. We also convinced colleagues from the European Central Bank to decide to suspend the disbursement of the banks' profits. This dialogue with banks was born in mid-March and the European Central Bank made its decision at the end of March. Secondly, the establishment of a payment moratorium framework. Together with other European financial supervisors, we decided to develop a framework for the suspension of repayment of loan payments when the corona apandemia broke out. This, on the one hand, will ease the capital position of the banks and encourage them to grant temporary payment holidays, on the other hand, it will provide a uniform and transparent temporary relief for borrowers covered by the moratorium to collect funds and to restructure cash flows. On the basis of the framework adopted by the inspection on 20 April, our banks established a so-called private moratorium, which entered into force on 27 April. To date, payment holidays have applied to the Circa 5% loan portfolio of private individuals and 21% to the corporate portfolio. However, applications for loan leave have declined. The payment moratorium is a way of addressing the borrower's liquidity problem, but not a medical remedy for a business model or permanent insolvency that has become ineffective for the debtor. To sum it up. Estonian financial market Anno Domini 2019 was characterised by concentration, adjustment and growth. Financial supervision is active and constantly and clearly reminds the market that it is necessary to act on a legal and regular basis. The Financial Supervision Authority has updated and updated its organisation. Estonian banking entered the corona crisis as strong, on average significantly stronger than the banking sector in the euro area and stronger than the financial crisis in 2008. However, the future will not be easy for the financial market or for supervision. A stable legal framework and less time-driven decisions are a good help here. Monitoring requires good knowledge, great experience, but also a firm hand. I assure you that I will make a maximum contribution, along with my team, to the statutory task of the Financial Supervision Authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U6	Thank you very much, dear waitress. Members of the Riigikogu have questions. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U7	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Quite often, we notice ads that allow savers quite high interest rates. At the same time, there is a phenomenon of new times, the so-called crowdfunding, where the financing of an object is allowed to earn quite a lot of fees. How much should we be worried about the supervision and control of these providers as ordinary citizens or potential depositors? And how many of these gray areas and black lands are there? What can be improved in your own work in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U8	Thank you for your question. This question then concerned savings and loan cooperatives, which are mostly not under our supervision, as well as crowdfunding platforms, which, in most cases, are also not under our supervision. As far as the crowdfunding platforms are concerned, we have made a legislative proposal to this effect to the Ministry years ago, in my memory it was in the summer of 2017, but perhaps even earlier. As far as savings and loan cooperatives are concerned, discussions have also taken place on this issue, according to my memory about 2018. I know that the Ministry of Finance is also planning to regulate these subjects in one way or another, i.e. savings loan cooperatives and crowdfunding. Now, if you answer your question, if someone offers a higher-than-average interest rate, then it's always associated with risk. The coin has two sides: income and risk. Consequently, the subject who offers higher interest rates than average is either subject to lower regulation or to other risks. It's always worth counting on the ad reader. The second thing about savings loan cooperatives is that the deposits they hold are not guaranteed by the Guarantee Fund. This means that if the savings loan cooperative becomes insolvent, there is a real risk that the person who deposited it will lose all or part of his money. In the case of banks, deposits are secured up to EUR 100000. This means that if the bank becomes insolvent, the person's savings will be covered to the appropriate extent by the Guarantee Fund funds.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U9	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U10	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I read here in the Financial Supervision Authority's Yearbook that consumers must be given loans responsibly, and this is very important. When you look at this picture globally, most of the loans that have been granted in the world are obviously neither physically nor mathematically able to be repaid. The world's loan burden has risen to 322% of the world's total production at the beginning of this year. And the reason why so many of these bad loans have been granted is that both central banks and countries have, as a very bad practice, allowed banks to pay off such bad loans, as we saw in Greece, for example, last decade. And now the European Union and the US have motivated this by lowering the minimum reserve ratio of banks to zero. Don't you think a policy that motivates banks to provide such bad loans is very bad?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U11	Thank you for a very good question. The point is, it seems to me, at the very least, to the central banks that shape monetary policy, who decide how much new money to issue, for which reasons, and whether to issue at all. My perimeter doesn't extend to this area. I'm the financial supervisor. My job is that the same banks that then lend loans to people, households, businesses remain financially viable. And why? Because, you see, these banks are taking money from depositors. These loans are granted at the expense of depositors' money and we do not want depositors to lose their funds. Now, with regard to the general approach of Estonian financial supervision, we have been quite conservative compared to some of the countries you mentioned. In good times, we have made sure that banks have sufficient profit or capital buffers to bear credit losses in bad times. At present, these buffers are on average large enough when compared to the other euro area, which could be the reference moment for Estonia. This, of course, does not mean that we can now fall asleep completely in financial supervision. No, not at all, we monitor the situation and we are working to ensure that our society continues to enjoy solvent banks. But once again, monetary policy is a matter for the central bank.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U12	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U13	Thank you, manager. Honourable waitress! I have a question about the part concerning the imposition of financial sanctions in misdemeanour proceedings and criminal proceedings. For example, the Swedish Financial Supervision Authority imposed a fine of SEK 4 billion on Swedbank for money laundering in Estonia. No one bank can not be fined twice or punished for one thing in administrative procedures and criminal proceedings are being oppressed in Estonia. Finally, a couple of tellers may be found guilty in this great criminal proceedings, and they are not particularly able to obtain money with fines. So this part of the fines you have so well dealt with in a minimalist format. One fine is imposed on a single issuer for failure to submit an annual report. But do you suddenly have an overview and statistics on how many fines and penalty money were imposed last year in both administrative and criminal proceedings and how much has been recovered?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U14	Thank you. The instrumentarium of financial supervision is very broad. Fines are always the last instruments we use when other instruments no longer work. Under the current legal framework, there is a situation where the procedure and the fine do not fall from the sky, a fine must be imposed in compliance with certain procedural rules. The procedure is so costly and the fine that can be imposed by law is so small that sometimes it does not just pay off. Let me give you an example. This week, we decided to impose a fine on one person in a misdemeanour procedure for market manipulation. In general, market manipulation, if you look at the securities market, is still considered a very serious infringement. In the case of Estonia, if a natural person alone carries out market manipulation, the maximum fine is 1200 euros. In view of the penalty dogmatics or scheme in law, we were able to impose a fine of EUR 500 on this person. Looks pretty small. As a signal, it also seems very strange that in certain cases, just as you can manipulate the market and serve it. If you make more than 500 euros or 1200 euros, you're a plus. Personally, I and my colleagues from the Financial Supervision Authority do not consider this right. We have already told our partners since 2004 that in Estonia, the levels of fines in the financial sector are too low, they are not discouraging. Recently, we are seeing positive developments here. Fine rates have been raised and there are other positive developments. I understand that colleagues from the Ministry of Justice have published a legislative intention to change the framework of misdemeanour proceedings, which was also the subject of your question. If this intention materialises, it should, in itself, a little more, like our colleagues, for example, in the European Central Bank, make it easier to reach fines. Why is this important? You see, banks are generally big organisations, they can protect their rights far more effectively than ordinary people on the street. In our Financial Supervision Authority, we do not believe that banks should be regulated in the same way as ordinary people, for example, for traffic offences committed on the street. That's the background. Let us see what life will bring about with regard to the future framework. All those punishments and other things that have been important to our activities are in this yearbook. We have not been fined very often in misdemeanour proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U15	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In this report you describe very precisely what were the biggest threats to the financial sector last year. These include cyber risk, business continuity of ICT systems, reputational risk due to past money laundering, etc. Now I quote you: the health of the financial sector will be very good by the end of 2019; however, it is clear that the seeds of the next problem will start to germinate at a very good time. It's a very beautiful image, and that's why I'm asking. The first half of this year also put the financial sector in a completely changed situation. What problems now arise from these seeds in this situation that has changed since last year? Can you be a little more specific? You may have hinted at some, but I'd like to be more specific.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U17	Thank you, very good question! The text you referred to is written before the corona apandemia broke out at all. That annual report, if my memory doesn't fool me, was adopted on 20 March when we were at homework for the first week. So, in fact, the texts there have been produced at all, not seeing what is going to happen in the healthcare landscape. Let's just say that in our language, from the point of view of credit risk, of course, from the point of view of credit risk, this health problem has significantly increased certain risks. If you put it aside, it is clear that the economy is cyclical. The seeds of the next fall or risk are usually sown at the height of the economic upturn. Nobody really knows exactly what those risks are. However, it is clear from past experience that everything once again depends on specific countries, it depends on credit and payment discipline, prudential prudence, etc. This depends on the extent to which credit risks are expected to materialise at a worse time. The sentence you have now referred to is that it is likely that worse times will come when credit risks begin to materialise. We have to be ready for this, banks, collect buffers, hold the buffers, don't pay too many profits. The good times don't last forever. It's such a forward-looking global warning. No one ever sees exactly where lightning hits in. No one saw this health crisis coming either. However, it was said in the financial supervision and central bank circles that the credit cycle would turn around from 2021 to 2022. Well, these are the projections, but it's all written on the water. It is not an exact science in the sense that everything is objectively verifiable. These are projections. But the lightning kicked in by health care. He must have hit different economies differently, and let's see how we can do it in Estonia. We in financial supervision are rather optimistic, looking at the overall picture of the euro area in our comparison. However, our banks have acted on quite a solid basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U18	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U19	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You mentioned three keywords: concentration, adjustment, growth. And the initial letter of these words is also very well connected to 'Competition', which you also spoke about several times. My question is this: how much do you consider the increasing number and perhaps the extent of regulation that inhibits competition and innovation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U20	I will try to answer whether this affects competition. The regulations and innovations are two separate aspects. In terms of innovation, I will respond in this way: the number, complexity and depth of regulations will have a neutral effect on innovation. The emergence of regulation in itself can lead to innovation. We see completely new areas, such as RegTech or SupTech, which are English phrases. The first objective is better, automated, to ensure that financial intermediaries comply with legal requirements, but that the human contribution to this work is low. This, after all, allows for a reduction in costs. So SupTech is then monitoring that there are not many people there anymore, but that machines do certain simple jobs. In this sense, the impact of regulation is neutral. Now the other way around, isn't it always a model question? Where does the Estonian Acquis or the Financial Market Acquis come from? It comes from a European Union where different countries have different experiences. For example, we take the experience of France. France experienced a major financial crisis in the early 1990s. Before that, there were many banks, and after the crisis, the number of banks fell substantially to five large banks. Small banks became insolvent. And France itself found it right and good for them. The model of a well-high market concentration of small banks is good, as large banks are somehow easier to manage. And maybe it'll be cheaper for society, I don't know. Germany has a slightly different approach. There are also big banks, but there are many smaller banks. And he also enjoys his situation. So what's the real model? Personally, I and we in the Financial Supervision Authority's strategy have confirmed this that we are more inclined towards a German approach. We like how to say the multiplicity of species, the dispersion of risks, instead would be a terrible concentration. But the fact is that the European Union's legislation is more of a regulatory approach to concentration, because smaller market players simply fail to comply with all these rules. Costs go terribly high and in smaller jurisdictions, revenues may not grow equally, and then there will be a narrowing of competition. Looking at Estonia and our banking market, we really do not have the most competition. But it's possible to have a worse situation. Just in this context, there is so much more that the mandate of financial supervisors is not a classic freedom of competition. There's a certain conflict of interest inside. On the one hand, we are interested in financial intermediaries earning properly, that they are stable and that savers feel confident because of this, while fearingly strong competition between financial intermediaries means lower profits. Remember, when buffers are small, in bad times savers can suffer. What's that? Once again: what is objectively right, I cannot say, I myself tend rather towards the multiplicity of species, the risks are scattered and more competitive. But life now shows and the trend of regulation shows that it's not the overwhelming view of things.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U21	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U22	Thank you, Head of the Financial Supervision Authority. Under special circumstances, we adopted an additional budget, allocated 1.7 billion to KredEx in order for KredEx to help businesses. Now we know that these millions have not actually been used very much. We hear from entrepreneurs that there has been a kind of vicious circle: KredEx sends companies to the banks for help and the banks send them back to KredEx. Companies that are in real trouble are not getting help. So my question: what does the Financial Supervision Authority think about KredEx's conditions for helping companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U23	Thank you! I might start from a distance by answering this very good question. It was a few days after the emergency situation was imposed when we had a very constructive debate in the Ministry of Finance on this very subject. There was a question for us as financial supervisors: what do you think if the state, with its own schemes, such as a guarantee scheme, would support entrepreneurs who have received a loan from the bank to bail them out? And it didn't take very long for us as financial supervisors to say that this is a very good idea. Why is it a good idea when the state bails someone out? You see, the banks have that if they have to keep more money in their pockets to cover potential loan losses, then when the state says in between that, listen, don't worry, I'm gonna bail out this loan, the bank might think, okay, I don't need that much money in my back pocket. Rather, it may use this money to cover other losses or to grant additional loans to society. It could be good under certain circumstances. So, in principle, any state support for entrepreneurs was, and still is, good in our opinion. And I also explained why. We look very selfishly at the fact that banks are therefore strong or stronger. We have been in dialogue with KredEx before, and we have also revealed to them what these conditions are in banking. This is determined by the Capital Regulation, a European Union act. Under this capital regulation, the conditions to be met by the KredEx guarantee are laid down so that banks can benefit from it. But we are not, how to say, all-powerful in Estonia. You're the one in this room, you can make the laws, etc. All we can do is say what's right and right and good for our eyes. It is already up to KredEx and the workers concerned to decide whether or not to take these conditions into account. If I'm quite honest, I have to admit I've kind of lost a clear eye on how it is exactly. I know that a very long dialogue has taken place between the banking sector and KredEx, there have been different ideas exchanged, but I honestly do not know where these conditions have come to. And I have also heard what you said when you asked your question that these conditions did not work.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U24	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U25	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Thank you very much, good waitress, for an interesting presentation. We all remember the laundering scandals that have been rolled across Europe, and in this context, the rules to prevent money laundering are much more comprehensive. That is undoubtedly justified. But in meetings with bank employees, they have said that these rules have become very detailed, very costly for the bank and are often tempted to close the account. It seems easier than getting to know some customers and looking into their transactions. I'm theorizing now, but is there such an extreme? Every person in Estonia basically needs an account, just as you do as a student in America. How, for example, could a person from prison get an account when a bank employee looks at him and it is clear that this is a person with a difficult past?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U26	This question was very well formulated, began very widely and eventually became narrow. I'm trying to answer that narrow part. According to the law, banks are obliged to open an account to a natural person for his or her vital needs. If this is not the case, then you have to appeal to the Consumer Protection Board, say that the bank is violating my rights. The Consumer Protection Board must, by means of its measures, force the bank to open an account. In your question, the fact that someone has been in prison does not mean anything from the point of view of the bank. I mean, what he's doing right now, what's his risk profile. Prison is just a word, isn't it? Prison is a healing facility. A person comes out of there and presumably he's a completely different person when he came in. Such a brief answer to that question. Now, this whole thing, I tried to handle it a little bit in my report. Indeed, it is not so black and white that we close the account and the problem is solved. It shouldn't be like that. We in the Financial Supervision Authority have also told the banks whether we like this black and white approach. We want the banks to make their control systems a little smarter. We haven't used a prison example, but we've used an example of a mother who buys food from Selver and pays utility bills. It should not be treated in the same way as any exporting undertaking. Of course, this company needs to be examined a little bit more closely, and it needs to be examined what it is doing. And the mother who goes to Selver shouldn't be treated with a heavy hand, but she'll be treated from time to time. I've received letters from the bank myself saying if you don't give me any information, we'll close your account. Well, I've been giving you that information.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U27	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U28	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I've been asked several times about private bankruptcy. How many times can a private individual have himself declared bankrupt? And then when is this really the last line, or what's this nipple bowl going to follow?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U29	Thank you, very interesting question. I'm an education lawyer, but the last few years I've been in FI, I haven't been practicing that much. This question, in itself, gives me an entirely athletic interest. If the memory tells you, it seems to me that bankruptcy against one person can be declared as long as the almighty one gives him life. It's not limited. Basically, he's going through one bankruptcy, he's going to fail somehow, and if his future life again makes him permanently insolvent, there's going to be another bankruptcy. In my opinion, the number of bankruptcies for one natural person is not limited in any way. If my memory isn't fooled now, it's the law. Whether it's good or bad, I can't tell. I wouldn't want it to sound like bankruptcy is a pretty normal thing, but he's not really bad now. People aren't always perfect, they make the wrong decisions in life. And bankruptcy is one method of settling wrong decisions or bad coincidences, depending on the circumstances, whereby everyone tries to get out of there alive and more or less healthy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U30	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U31	Thank you. Foreign banks have been spinning black money for years, money laundering flourished. Against this background, the public has not understood where the Financial Supervision Authority was. But I don't want to ask you about it, I want to ask you about what you spoke a few words about just a moment ago. Now the banks have gone to an absolute second extreme. New companies and people are refused to pay their bills. Our companies wishing to enter the market are controlled and asked for explanations on various transfers, even if they are EUR 20. The situation has become completely absurd, at a completely different extreme. What can the Financial Supervision Authority and some other institutions in Estonia do to ensure that this abnormal situation in banks ends so that individuals do not have to complain to consumer protection every time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U32	Thank you for your question. It's a very complex subject. I would like to start with a few words on a subject that was not a question. In 2014, when the public had not spoken of money laundering or the prevention of money laundering, the Financial Supervision Authority was the first in this region to raise and resolve the Danske Bank issue. 2015 Danske Bank exited non-residents' business. From there came Versobank etc. But since there was no question about it, I am happy to talk about it at another time. In any case, since 2014, we have been working on this subject in such a way that it is black before our eyes. But now I come to your question. First of all, we will unwind what has happened in recent years and where will these anti-money laundering rules come from? They are not made up here in Estonia. This sequence of norms is as follows. There is an international organisation such as Financial Action Task Force, or briefly FATF. The FATF brings together larger jurisdictions that, for various reasons, develop anti-money laundering rules. The fact is that these standards have always meant two things. Firstly, since 2011, they have created a phenomenon such as risk-based supervision of the prevention of money laundering. I am going to tell you right now, because that is what your question is about. And the other thing is that these anti-money laundering rules have become more and more detailed, or deeper. So this is the FATF, isn't it? The FATF standards will be transposed by all Member States that belong to them: the United States, Russia, China and the European Union. In the European Union, these standards are found in the directives and are transposed by the Member States. By the way, the principle of risk sensitivity has only been transposed in Estonia a few years ago, but this is for this purpose. The principle of risk sensitivity is, as I explained earlier to one of the questioners: basically, a banker needs to know his client. If he knows his client, the same mother of the family who buys food from Selver, then he does not have to constantly apply control methods to that client, for example, to ask why you still go to Selver and why you bought it for 10 euros. It doesn't have to be done. There's no norm to see it coming. However, a random example must be checked if a company registered in an apartment in Narva exports and imports tools for millions of euros. Then the banker might be interested in what all this means. Answers will be answered, credible answers will be very nice. No answers, then according to the Money Laundering Prevention Act, he can't even make this company's deals anymore. That's the rule of law. Now, what have we done at the Financial Supervision Authority? We've mapped the account situation. The issue of accounts, according to the law, is not at all primary in our perimeter, but, being aware of this issue, as we have heard from the market, we have mapped the accounts. We've been trying to figure out why banks behave like you described, and how normal this behavior is. There are different reasons. The first reason is that they can't get information from their clients that they're asking to know the client. This is one of the main reasons for closing accounts. And the second reason the banks have also revealed to us is that no accounts are used. There are so-called dead accounts. That's what the banks have told us. What have we told the banks about all this? We have said that, you see, you need to invest in these risk controls, you need to make these risk controls more sensitive. It can't be that right after some first little vibration, you're going to end the account with the person. Try to figure out what's going on in there. And in doing so, you don't necessarily have to hire dozens, hundreds, I don't know, thousands of people. In the modern world, it is possible to do so on an automated basis. Invest more in new IT solutions, do not stay so focused on people, because people cannot do the job. The banks have told us, yes, we will, but it is not born overnight. The banks have assured us, for example, this year they are investing in such systems, I will say more than 20 million euros in memory, which is a fairly large number. So let's see how these systems are going to work and if they're going to work. Now is the time for adaptation and, indeed, unfortunately, there are cases that you have described. Some customers are completely unwarrantedly hit and treated too abruptly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U33	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U34	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, Chairman of the Board, for your presentation. Of course, among politicians there are always popular banks to curse, but I think we must also recognise the people who work in the financial sector. They're smart, they're good, they're hardworking people. And the banks in Estonia have, however, been the driving force behind innovation, especially in terms of e-services. So there is certainly a need to recognise the financial sector. My question is that, at the end of April, if I am not mistaken, Estonian banks agreed on payment holidays for their clients and, among other things, for their home loan clients in connection with the corona virus crisis. They did this, as far as I know, in cooperation with your facility. I think it gives them a certain degree of certainty. What is your assessment in the longer term? If we are really moving towards fulfilling the most negative, pessimistic forecasts, will these agreements be enough, or will the state, government and Riigikogu at one point have to take any further steps to protect the home loan clients in particular?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U35	Thank you for your question. Following the outbreak of the Coronary Apocalypse in Europe, governments, central banks and financial supervisors took a number of steps. Now, if you look at governments, the main measures I am going to take a little out of my jurisdiction right now have been direct payments to people who have either lost their pay or who have lost their jobs. And this is not only the case in Estonia, but more broadly. Plus certain direct payments to certain businesses and the same guarantees we talked about here earlier, through KredEx in Estonia. This has been a package of government measures. As far as central banks are concerned, I reject money market operations. Central banks have supported the financial sector, banking in particular by reducing'macropruden' buffers. This has allowed banks to hold more to cover loan losses and also potentially to grant new loans without violating certain standards. Financial supervisors have taken a number of steps both in the euro area and in the European Union at large. This is going to be very technical, but one step was to limit the distribution of profits, which I spoke about in my report. There are also a little more accounting techniques that have been agreed at a global level to deal with certain loans. And the background is hope and belief that the corona crisis is still temporary rather than permanent. One measure agreed by financial supervisors in the European Union is the same framework of payment moratoriums you mentioned. The framework of payment moratoriums briefly says that, listen, bank, if you now, under certain conditions, tell your client that he does not have to make interest payments, for example, or even principal payments within a limited period of time, you do not necessarily have to treat this loan as a bad loan in your capital accounting. This means that the bank will have more money in its back pocket to cover other losses or to grant new loans. Sometimes it is also necessary to give new loans to businesses in a slightly more unstable environment so that they can overcome temporary difficulties. The positive side of the payment moratorium by the consumer or by the borrower is that it is equally understandable to him that, in such circumstances, everyone receives a payment leave in a uniform manner. The payment leave, the payment moratorium, is to overcome the liquidity problem or the temporary difficulty, it is certainly not helpful in adjusting the business model. If the problem of corona or health care and the resulting changes in the economy are passed on to certain business models, it will make them insolvent. From our perspective, of course, from the perspective of financial supervision, this means that potential credit risk will materialise. For banks, this means that they have to deal with specific loan agreements. If the business is not sustainable in nature, the so-called remedies must be applied, the guarantees must be realised in order to recover the loan money from the customer. There is a law for this: the Law of Obligations Act, Bankruptcy Act, Restructuring Act, Debt Protection Act. We're not there yet. We are enjoying the situation now, not only in Estonia, but also in the wider euro area, where, say, I would hate to say that there is a storm coming, but it will certainly soon be an environment of higher risks. It's still quiet. These risks have not started to materialise because of the payment moratorium, which has given some breathing space. Perhaps some people find a new job or businesses find some way to restructure their cash flows, thanks to this payment moratorium. In this sense, it is early to say that now we are about to change the law or do something concrete. Rather, I call on Parliament to keep our heads cold. We have a right to deal with the problems arising from crisis situations. You can't lose your head here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U36	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U37	Good manager! Dear waitress, It is clear that the Financial Supervision Authority has a very high level of competence in financial matters. This can also be seen in today's presentation and in answering questions. But I have a question about how you appreciate this European loan package of EUR 750 billion. What is your recommendation and vision in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U38	Thank you for your question. This package of loans is not directly included in my professional perimeter. I'm only familiar with it as much as I read in the paper. I think that Estonia's position must somehow crystallize in this Parliament and also at the level of the government. I'm not able to say from this remote, is it good or bad, or what needs to be done with it. There are probably different views and positions. But you are probably the representatives of the people who will shape the position of this final Estonia in this matter. I am one of the voters on this issue, but I am in no way a decision-maker. This package is not directly relevant to financial supervision. I haven't even read it, and I don't know how to give it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U39	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You are talking about the 2019 report, but the money laundering problem is also being addressed. How did it even become possible for this money laundering to take place on such a scale when we have a Financial Inspectorate, if we have a Financial Intelligence Unit, etc.? The other part of my question, however, concerns the current situation. One teller, who wished to remain anonymous to me, complained that he had complied with all the instructions relating to the move of money and reported it to his "higher bank officer," but the point of investigation was still on the teller, not on the officer from whom he received certain permission and order.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U41	Thank you! Basically two questions. The first was how money laundering was possible, and then the question that one person in the bank does not understand why he is being investigated, and no one else. I'm trying to start at the end. I cannot assume from the point of view of the procedure under investigation of this anonymous teller. Normally the Financial Inspectorate doesn't investigate individual individuals, it sounds like criminal proceedings to me. We're not a research facility, we're not investigating money laundering crimes at all. The Financial Supervision Authority is committed to ensuring that the financial intermediaries' risk control organisation is of sufficient quality and is able to deal with risks, including the prevention of money laundering. We're not directly investigating a money laundering crime. The police and the prosecutor's office are investigating a crime. If money laundering is suspected, if money laundering is suspected, banks are obliged to report it to the Financial Intelligence Unit. The FIU Act analyses this information and if it understands on the basis of preliminary analysis that the characteristics of the crime may actually appear, it will transmit this information to the investigating authorities. This is the system for investigating money laundering. Now, how have things been possible? Well, that's a long story, but of course we can talk about it. This story begins with the fact that, as I mentioned, from 2011, the same FATF was focusing on more 'risk-sensitive' supervision. Prior to that, the prevention of money laundering in the financial sector was not dealt with on a risk-based basis, but on a "normal" basis. If you have internal rules, if there's a tick in this box, it's like it's okay. It is not the criminals or the so-called bad guys that are stupid people. They don't sleep. They see these weaknesses, and that, by the way, is one of the reasons why the FATF, in my understanding, moved to a risk-based approach. They wanted to harass those bad guys a little bit. I guess this one constant race is whether the police are smarter or the thugs who are on top, who are down at a certain point in time. The same is true in Estonia. Estonia is in no way in a vacuum, cut off from the rest of the world. As far as these things are concerned, let's go through this Danske case again. It wasn't an overnight clarification. The fact that Danskes is bad, the risks have piled up, arose over a number of years. Our dialogue with the monitoring of the origin of the money did not produce results. As I have already said to one of the questioners here, I am from a legal background and I am not too afraid to take legal risks. At the time, my team and I finally decided to take this legal risk and end this thing at Danske Bank. We ended up in 2014. It was a legal risk, it was a very high level of legal risk, in fact. At that time, no one had ever done this before. In retrospect, it's good to say that we did it and so on, but at that point it wasn't easy to be in there. And I guess we started discussing these things from then on. There were the following sources of risk in our so-called risk matrix, Versobank, right, and some other cases. We have slowly done this work with our few resources. I come back to the fact that the main activity of the Financial Supervision Authority is financial supervision, the same credit risks, insurance companies, insurance risks. Risk controls in the fight against money laundering are one of our side activities, but a very important one. Now I get out there that it is extremely important for us to have a strong Financial Intelligence Unit in Estonia. It'll help us do what we do. The stronger the FIU or such an institution, the worse for criminals, and the better for us than for financial supervision. My story got longer now, but as for the first question, it sounded strange to me. I don't particularly like to give abstract assessments to specific cases if I don't know anything about it. It's like we're talking about criminal proceedings, but why is that? I find it very difficult to comment on why one person is being investigated and not the other. It all depends on the facts, the so-called research versions, the evidence gathered.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U42	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U43	Thank you, manager. Head of the Good Financial Supervision Authority! During the last Christmas, perhaps many of the people sitting in this hall were brought by Santa Claus' book 'Clean Millions', which is sometimes more interesting to read than your annual report. But only at times. Can you reassure the members of the Riigikogu now and confirm that your vigilance is sufficiently guaranteed by the state budget, so that you are able to fight criminals better than in the past? It was good to hear that the banks are investing at least 20 million in it, but what about your institution?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U44	Thank you! If we start with our funding scheme, we're not getting any money from the state budget. We have a statutory scheme of how our activities are financed, there are a number of 'control mechanisms' between us. Basically, our council, where there is equal, half and half, represented by the government and the central bank, decides how much money we receive and from whom. The grounds from which we receive and the upper and lower rates of the amounts are all well-defined in the law. As for the prevention of money laundering, here's the story. As the issue has arisen in the orbit of the public, as if there had been a large money laundering in the Baltics, the various international institutions, I would say, have tossed away to see what is going on here. And in short, the results of this observation are as follows. In the winter of 2019, the European Banking Authority opened an investigation into the financial supervision of Denmark and the financial supervision of Estonia as to whether there has been a breach of European Union legislation. The result in April 2019 was that it has not been violated. It's not ruined! EU law has not been violated in the supervision of Danske Bank. That's one. Secondly, from time to time, the financial world is visited by an institution such as the International Monetary Fund. He appreciates the way countries keep their finances, and among other things, of course, the subject you raised, namely money laundering and preventing it, got their attention. As a result, in the autumn of 2019 they evaluated the Estonian Financial Supervision Authority, how we then deal with the prevention of money laundering. And their result was that we have already historically adopted risk-based, risk-sensitive supervision, including in the area of prevention of money laundering and risk control, as the first financial supervisor in the region. And in general, the methodologies we use are top-top. There were a few moments in which they suggested that we do things better. We have taken note of them, approved them and implemented them today. It's the IMF now. And the third is the European Commission in a broader sense. The European Commission has not been on the ground and has been in dialogue with us like the IMF, who has been here and has been in contact with us, did interviews. However, the European Commission has found that Estonia's financial supervision could look at certain issues, especially with regard to risk-based supervision. And that's what his views are all about with the IMF. This, then, concerns I am now going to be very technical, such as thematic on-the-spot checks. We have so far made global on-the-spot checks on the control of the prevention of money laundering, which means that we unravel the household as we do and draw conclusions from it. It takes a terrible amount of time and requires a great deal of human resources. Thematic on-the-spot checks are the kind where you take on a very narrow segment, you need fewer people, and you get a quick result. Why are they good? You can signal the market faster, you can do on-site inspections for a week, and you can give me a signal right now: listen, you've got the household out of order, fix it. This is why both the IMF and probably the European Commission want to see these things more in Estonia. We have taken note of this recommendation and are already implementing it. As for the money, I come from the private sector, law firm. They were used to being very modest in their spending. There's a profit to be made. The higher the profits and the lower the costs, the higher the profits. Somehow in my own personal life, this method has been transferred to business in FI. We don't want to overspend it. We're trying to make sure things are rational, and step by step, move in that direction. But if regulations change or some standards change, or the risk environment changes, and it seems that more resources are needed, then we will ask the Council. We have had a very good dialogue with the Council throughout history. There have been various political parties represented in the FI Council, with all of them having been very constructive and very good dialogue, understanding. And in that sense, at the moment, we do not have any problems with the subject you asked about.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U45	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U46	Thank you. According to the Credit Institutions Act, the suitability of a person in the financial sector is assessed on the basis, inter alia, of professional suitability and sound business reputation. Unfortunately, according to public information, it has been quite well demonstrated that in Luminor, Swedbank and the Coop Council, for example, there are people whose activities in Nordea and Luminor have also been characterised by the suppression of workers' rights and the obstruction of trade union work. I recall that membership of a trade union is a constitutional right and, for example, Mr Raasuke's view that trade unions are terrorists is certainly a direct attack on that right. Do you think that people who violate workers' rights, for whom it has been very clearly shown that they are obstructing the functioning of trade unions, are still professionally suitable and have an impeccable business reputation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U47	Thank you! I guess we should look at all the circumstances here alone. He mentioned one person's name, too. I will make one technical clarification that, in accordance with the current legal framework, the assessment of the suitability of the bank manager referred to by you falls within the competence of the European Central Bank. I do not want to speak on this matter. But in general, these questions about the suitability of individuals for office are, let's say, abstract enough. At the same time, it is very often a judicially controlled process. All the decisions of the Financial Supervision Authority we make are subject to judicial review. If a person still feels that his or her rights are being harassed, he or she will be able to appeal to the court and the court will make a decision. It's really hard for me to tell you if anyone fits in or not. Erkki Raasuke, mentioned by you, is, yes, the bank manager. He's considered fit. However, if we are given critical information that seems appropriate, we will accept it and, of course, we will appreciate it with our colleagues from the European Central Bank.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U48	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Banks operating in Estonia have now started to create rapidly and increase various fees, the justification of which is sometimes highly questionable. Does the Financial Supervision Authority have a say in this regard? And if so, would it be possible to do something about it or to discipline them in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U50	Thank you! In fact, it is a question of competition. The more competition there is, the more likely it will be that the fees will be adjusted according to competition, i.e. they will be lower. The less competition, the more financial intermediaries or anyone can charge fees to people. I have already said before that financial supervision has generally been put into practice in order to ensure that the entire financial system is stable, that is to say, no financial intermediary will become insolvent. Why is this important? This is important because we are not taking the money from the financial intermediaries, it is the best example, the money they are borrowing has not come out of the air in any way. It's the depositor's money. And I also said that the larger the buffers banks have in times of crisis, the greater their accumulated profits, the greater the credit losses arising from loans they are able to bear without the depositors being put at risk. Financial supervision is interested in the existence of financial stability in order to ensure that banks are solvent. And that's why we don't necessarily, in the first place, deal with fees. We've put it aside, it's not in our so-called business portfolio. But how this can be dealt with is to increase competition in banking. However, the fact is that we do not see a very big storm in the banking sector on the Baltic market. I have done something entirely on my own initiative; this is not my primary task as head of the Financial Supervision Authority. But seeing this competitive situation, I've been in dialogue with foreign representations here and said, "Listen, if you're in your country of origin, maybe you'll invite these banks from these countries to come to Estonia." We'll tell them about the Estonian environment, maybe they'll be interested in the Baltics. I think there's another bank on our market. This interest has not yet materialised. If they are interested, they are welcome to speak with the Financial Supervision Authority. Ex-bank licensing standards are uniform across Europe. Once again, formally, the European Central Bank issues the authorisation of banks, but in this case we are the contact point. So I still see an increase in competition as an option to lower fees. It's not like they're going down there in any way. If you do this regulatoryly, it is usually the case that if the laws suppress the fees, someone will eventually pay for it, it will simply be passed on to someone else. So, as a rule, regulatory solutions are not good.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U51	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U52	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I am moved to ask Marko Šorin's question, in which he praised the book 'Clean Millions', which appeared last year. I've read that book too, and I assume you too. When I read that book, I honestly got really scared at times. It was like a criminal novel or a horror movie at times. And I was pretty sorry about the Financial Supervision Authority. If what is written in this book is true, then it is quite frankly your job in the field of money laundering, I would say, almost impossible mission. But I want to ask you this. I assume you've read this book. Are the statements in this book really true? Has this situation been so bad in Estonia ever since? Is that really how much money laundering has been tested?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U53	Thank you! I'm just saying, for the sake of the record, Valdo Randpere is a former member of the FI Council, so that's why you're on top of it. But from this book. I've read that book, yeah. Is everything in it true? My answer is I don't know. The author of the book also interviewed me, and the facts that I revealed to him are true. I usually take responsibility for what I say, and they're true. Is everything else, I can't tell by heart like that? I also don't read any books with the idea of whether it's true or not. I'd rather read this book with excitement. Let's say I got emotional, and I really liked the part in that book that showed that financial supervision was doing its job.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U54	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U55	Thank you. I would like to say, for the sake of the verbatim report, that there would be no slander on the part of one bank manager, Erkki Raasuke, that Oudekki Loone might know that this particular episode was debauched and that the press council forced this show, which claimed that Erkki Raasuke had acted uglylyly, to take it off the net. But in general I enjoy your speeches, and that is also because of the questions of where your eyes were when the money was washed. I'm always told you were there, and I'm glad to say we were together at the time. I ran the bank board, and you did the dirty work of stopping money laundering. However, the specific question is: do you consider it realistic that Estonia will receive some fine money from other countries in money laundering episodes that banks will have to pay for their mistakes?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U56	That is a very broad question. By other countries, you probably mean the United States of America first. You probably mean Danske Bank and Swedbank, don't you? But I will now narrow down this question, I will not be able to answer if I have to think of countries all over the world. It is true that there is a legal framework in the United States governing international cooperation in criminal matters in financial supervision matters. It is true that it also provides that if a person in the United States has engaged in cross-border activities in such a way that jurisdiction is concerned, they will also have the opportunity to participate in this civil fine. Such a framework exists in the United States. Is there, and if so, how will this framework be implemented in these possible matters concerning Estonia? It's hard for me to say. This is decided, in particular, by the US investigation authorities which are conducting criminal proceedings, as well as by the financial supervisory authorities, which, as a rule, are not very concerned. So it is difficult to assess this question in terms of probability, because it depends on the circumstances of individual cases. If you're asking if this has happened, yes, it has. The United States has shared these sums with the Netherlands if my memory isn't deceived, and maybe there's another country. So this practice exists in the United States. Will this occur in the case of Estonia? I'm not a hiromant, I generally don't like to predict. I like the facts and the norms and the results from them. What I see in front of you, I can't answer that. But the framework exists, certain assumptions exist. Whether it's realizing, I can't tell.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U57	Thank you very much, dear waitress. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for you. Let's open the negotiations. Representatives of the political groups will be heard during the negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Andres Sutt Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U58	Good manager! Head of the Board of the Good Financial Supervision Authority! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mark three issues in this debate today. I'll start with banking. It is certainly very good to hear confirmation that the capitalisation of our banks is all very well and that they are capable of going through this crisis and of coping with this crisis. It is a refreshing knowledge for depositors, good knowledge for entrepreneurs and everyone else who want money to fund their activities from the bank today and in the future. I think it is also useful to note, looking back last year, the simple fact that, for a very long time, we are once again in a situation in the banking market where there are not only Nordic banks here, but also a bank with American owners. And actually, our smaller market players are quite advanced. I also think that since we do not know exactly how big and deep the impact of this crisis will be and how fast we will be getting out of here, it is important that the Financial Supervision Authority also uses the flexibility given to it by the laws and other regulations in order to support as much as possible the activities of banks in financing their clients. The example of the payment moratorium, i.e. the payment leave that was set out here, is certainly an important step in filling the gap with which the banks have not actually started to fill the KredEx measures that should have started to work. With regard to banking, the report made a very important observation that quite a lot of this vague, borderline activity is moving out of regulation. We are talking about loan cooperatives, crypto money, crowdfunding, but actually all kinds of scams. This is certainly an issue that we in the Committee on Monetary Affairs will have to deal with in the near future, so that these risks are well mapped and that the various market players are subject to a level playing field. The second issue I want to mark concerns the image of the financial sector. This is not an abstract issue; it concerns, for example, foreign settlements in American dollars. If the country's reputation is poor, the banks' ability to open correspondent relationships is much more limited. There was a lot of talk about money laundering today. It is a pleasure to note that the Financial Supervision Authority has gained more power and capacity to reduce risks in the system. I certainly recognise the activities of the Financial Supervision Authority in the fight against money laundering. As the good waitress pointed out, as the conclusion of her investigation, the European Banking Authority stated that the Financial Supervision Authority had carried out its tasks correctly, so that the Danske Bank case has a line under it. That, I think, doesn't make sense to dissect for too long. Similarly, the Financial Supervision Authority has recognised the application of a risk-based approach to combating money laundering. This too is an important milestone. So I think that from the perspective of this control, things have been moving in the very right direction. There is, of course, another aspect of the coin, which came to the speech here too, and this concerns the fact that both people and businesses must have the opportunity to use banking services for their legitimate economic activities. Here, finding a risk-based balance is very important, and certainly the Financial Supervision Authority has an important role to play. Finally, the third issue concerns financial literacy. From here, some figures ran through the number of deposits held by Estonian residents in their bank accounts: it is nearly 8 billion. If we put more pension funds there, with an amount of nearly 5 billion, we are talking about almost 50% of GDP. Thus, financial literacy is of great importance. I know that the Financial Supervision Authority has paid attention to financial literacy in its activities, there is also a portal, but I think this is one area where I encourage you to contribute even more so that our people's financial literacy is as good as possible. That concludes my speech. I wish the Financial Supervision Authority team strength and success in fulfilling my mandate, and I look forward to the next annual report and also to the continuation of cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U59	Anti Half-Amets on behalf of the EKRE Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U60	Good ambassadors! Journalist Edward Lucas has said that democracy and the rule of law seem to be firm until greed comes into play. Danske Bank was also a prestigious bank, Denmark and Estonia were well-known countries. But warnings that money flows were questionable were made abundantly, but no one listened to them. The Baltic States worked hard in the 1990s to get rid of the image of the wild east. Because of money laundering, Estonia now suffered from the hard-won reputation as a modern European economy. Foreigners asked whether the facade of Estonia's prosperity was based on the profits of a huge casino. Edward Lucas even said that local banks are a much greater threat to national security than enemy tanks. Today's Estonian government is more substantive and vigorous in the fight against money laundering than any previous government in Estonia. The government has already increased funding for anti-money laundering agencies and has complemented the law. Among other things, penalties were tightened, the amount of the fine now depends on the circumstances of the specific infringement and takes into account the economic situation of the infringer. This also means more effective punishment. Higher fines can also be imposed on company managers and employees. The main objective of bringing the money laundering data bureau into the administration of the Ministry of Finance is to concentrate the design and practical implementation of sectoral policies in a single place. It is important for the state that the FIU is a strong partner for the Estonian financial sector. Acting as an independent body within the administration of the Ministry of Finance and in close cooperation with the Tax and Customs Board and the Financial Supervision Authority, the Office should be more effective in preventing and preventing money laundering in the future. The government also supports a number of proposals to improve the exchange of anti-money laundering information and cooperation between the countries of the European Union. But, as we know, Brussels is a solution to every problem: more power for the European Union. This means that, under the auspices of the fight against money laundering, a new european agency is to be established and taken away from the Member States and given a number of powers of decision, the power to impose regulation and the obligation to report. This is not something we support or will support. Life has shown that giving away decision-making and regulation to a higher level and beyond is not the best way to solve problems. And here is the question of sovereignty and subsidiarity. Minister of Finance Martin Helme has said: 'I consider it necessary to identify, punish and claim compensation for the damage caused to the Estonian economy and the state's reputation in the recent past. To avoid making mistakes in the future, we need to learn from what has happened in the past. But I will not accept the situation where Estonia has suffered irreparable damage, the bank accounts of companies operating in Estonia that employ Estonian people and pay taxes to the state will be closed on a massive basis and small payments by ordinary people will be blocked. ' When investigating money laundering, it is important not only to find the perpetrators, but also to have responsibility for the perpetrators of the crime. Convicting the tellers doesn't lead us to the goal. The prosecution of organizers is very difficult, including due to the expiry of criminal offences. When, knowing or organizing bank managers or simply because of criminal negligence, gigantic money laundering took place, they hoped for profits. Now it is necessary to imitate the fight against money laundering and to build a village in Potemkin, a small company being bullied. This is not a real fight against money laundering. Swedish banks, who treated Estonia like a colony, were key to money laundering. I don't know if the involvement of former Prime Minister Persson actually bore fruit in order to smooth these failures. This global-scale money laundering that passed through Estonia in the 1920s resembles the washing of the bloody gold of the Bolsheviks that took place through Estonian banks.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U61	Would the esteemed speaker like more time? Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U62	The banks' management were eager to launder this bloody gold. It is recalled that the bankruptcy of Harju Pank and the political leadership of Estonia were also sitting on the boards and boards of the bank. At that time, money laundering had very long-term political consequences, both in the political storms of the early 1930s and probably in the subsequent events. I hope that the current money laundering will not have the same far-reaching consequences as the 1920s money laundering. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U63	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U64	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I congratulate the Financial Supervision Authority on the work it has done and on this very good, interesting and human-language presentation. I must also admit, as a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, that the Financial Supervision Authority is probably one of the organisations that gives us the most work. We have had to clarify very complex technical regulations, such as virtual wallets or details of money laundering regulation. So it has been a part of lifelong learning for members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. And I think it's valuable information. Andres Sutt may have benefited less than that, but I admit I've evolved a lot. Now, if you look at the actual work done, I'll bring out three things. In fact, Andres has already made a good summary of what has changed since last year, but I would like to talk a little bit about a person's view, about looking for this balance point and really professional banking, and maybe expanding it. Understandably, large credit institutions and insurance companies in this sector may pose a high risk. If the risk materialises, we all feel it, but in the case of people, for example, deposits are guaranteed by the Guarantee Fund. If we are talking about small active advertisers who, while offering a favourable interest rate or a very innovative service in the virtual world or other earning opportunities, the possibilities to manage savings are crowdfunding platforms, savings and loan cooperatives or some kind of virtual currency trading business, there are still high risks for the individual. The sector may have a small impact, but if a person loses his or her savings, it still changes his or her life. The Financial Supervision Authority has made it clear to us that it is difficult for us to recruit bank managers with 30 years of experience. In fact, the inspection also has direct tasks not strictly provided by law. It is also important to send certain messages to the public or to hold a debate on how to plan to use your savings, such a long-term contribution to financial literacy. I think that in this Chamber, in fact, everyone understands how to reduce risks in terms of their financial assets and what sensible decisions are. If someone wants to take risks, just as banks have a different sense of risk, people have a different sense of risk. However, you need to know what to consider and how to make decisions about the contents of your wallet. It is really difficult to find a balance point for knowing a customer: how much to regulate and how much to allow freedom, how much to trust and how much to keep an eye on all the time. I think that Estonia is not the only one looking for this point of balance here. I hope that we will not move on to more regulation, but no doubt there must be limits in place. It is a good thing that in times of crisis, both Eesti Pank and the Financial Supervision Authority have been able to choose this direction, that if supervision is really guarded over things that have already been done, it is a bank-designed system, how they value their risks or anything else, but during times of crisis, messages have been given about the moratorium on repayment of loans and the non-payment of banks' profits. Such preventive signals will strengthen the financial sector and will most likely help us to survive the crisis. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U65	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U66	Unfortunately, the money laundering that has taken place in the past is still rising very sharply, very painfully, very colorfully, in a more literary form or in a more formal way. Yeah, well, you gotta look at the past. All sectors must do so, all organisations must do so. However, this cannot in any way diminish the fact that we still have obligations to regulate and decide matters. In fact, it is now more important to look to the future. In view of technological developments and the wide spread of virtual solutions, future risks may be more unfathomable and the long-term focus on them will lead to a better outcome. I remember my childhood when wearing seat belts wasn't mandatory. No one can imagine us driving like that these days. But it was a time when the rules of that time, the laws of that time, were in force. In the same way, in the case of money laundering, we still have to make assessments on the basis of the rules that were in force when these decisions and actions were taken. After all, we are wiser, we regulate more, and we are somewhat stricter, but this could not be expected of those who were following the laws of those days. Yes, we can talk about professionalism and goodwill and, I don't know, being more conservative than the law requires, and taking smaller risks, but there's nothing to do afterwards. So I do suggest that we look to the future and not only at the risks of the sector but also at the institutions and services that can pose a risk to people and their savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U67	Thank you very much. There is no further desire to participate in the negotiations. The negotiations have been concluded, questions asked, the presentation was heard and the 2019 Financial Supervision Authority Report item has been discussed. Thanks to the waitress! Thanks to the questioners! Thank you to the speakers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U68	We are going to the second item on the agenda, which is the draft law amending the Law on Courts and the Code of Civil Procedure, initiated by the Government of the Republic, number 175. Let's start with the second reading. I would like to ask Paul Puustusmaa, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to wait here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U69	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber and behind the TVs in your office! I have a good opportunity to bring this week together with Bill 175 and to close this session with my speech to the urb that orb connected to yesterday. As we remember, yesterday, President of the Supreme Court Villu Kõve, when he spoke here with a very meaningful speech, brought out the problems and the activities of our court and judicial authorities. Basically, he delivered such a message that the courts are working for us, there is little cause for concern, but there are new developments that require response. And he also had a request to the Riigikogu, to all of us, to intensify some of the work in lawmaking, to go along with the progress that we have ahead of us. Yesterday, in my speech, I referred to the fact that we have in the Riigikogu the draft law 175, i.e. the law amending the Law on Courts and the Code of Civil Procedure, which deals with these problems. While this draft does not provide an absolute solution, of course, it is understandable, but in some respects it certainly offers solutions to some of the problems that have been encountered in court proceedings. Basically, we have discussed this law in this Chamber at first reading and it has been discussed repeatedly in the Commission. It is my duty to bring to you the facts concerning what happened between the two readings in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. As I pointed out, to put it well, the purpose of this draft is, above all, to go along with the current situation and to enable court proceedings to be made more reasonable, to harmonise the burden on judges, which is the greatest task the Supreme Court has given to us and to clarify the procedure. All those associations of lawyers who have helped us on this issue must be thanked: of course, the Ministry of Justice, of course, the Court Administration Advisory Board and the Bar Association. Feedback has come from all over. I must therefore say that it was a great pleasure to process this bill, because the consensus of the parties was total. We had no disputes about the bill itself or about the addition. We did not argue about content but asked questions to make it clearer, to make it more understandable and to avoid problems once these changes were implemented. And there was another good thing I want to refer to. We were also lucky in the sense that representatives of interest groups were present at all the meetings of the committee until the end, be they from the Ministry of Justice, be it the Minister or the Chairman of the Supreme Court, who also attended the last sessions and made his comments. And now for the changes. After we had worked through the various proposals, thoughts and concerns that had arisen in the interest groups, we were left with five proposals that we discussed, adjusted and adopted as amendments, and again I stress, consensually. They first dealt with the question of the Director of the Supreme Court. There is one fact that, when we have the law of the courts defining the role of the director of the court, it is strange that an important person such as the director of the Supreme Court has been overlooked. His status was somewhat unregulated and we were able to introduce this regulation, and now we have a section on the Director of the Supreme Court in the Law of the Courts, which specifies the competence of the Director of the Supreme Court, provides him with a term of office, like other top officials, and complements the grounds for his dismissal. This decision was adopted by consensus. The second amendment concerns the referral of cases to another court. This is the same issue of harmonisation and the reduction of the burden on the court. In the Commission, there were quite a variety of ideas that did not arise in terms of how to formalise it in such a way as not to create a contradiction to which the Bar Association referred and to which the judges referred and which was in the original wording. That is why the final wording of the title of the section remained as it appears in the revised text: referring the case to another court without changing jurisdiction. This is necessary to rule out constitutional contradictions, in the interests of legal clarity. This, too, was, of course, approved by consensus. Both Hanno Pevkur and the President of the Supreme Court, who proposed this wording, should be thanked here separately. The third amendment concerns the wording of one provision. This is an addition to paragraph 6 of § 991 where it was initially said that the General Assembly of the Supreme Court may exceptionally, with the consent of the judge and on a proposal from the President of the Court, extend the powers of the judge who has been dismissed on his own request or on account of his age, if this is necessary for the completion of the divided cases. After hearing and discussing the proposals, the Commission concluded that the use of the word 'in exceptional cases' is neither reasonable nor justified and that the word simply needs to be deleted. Otherwise, we should begin to define what this exceptional case might be. This is not the point of this rule and it is not possible to foresee all possible exceptional cases. The fourth amendment concerns the remuneration and bonuses of the assistant judge, again in terms of procedure and harmonisation of the law. This amendment reconstructs the content of § 122 and provides that the rate of remuneration of the assistant judge and the premium paid to the head of department are established by the Law of the Courts instead of the Order of the Government of the Republic. So, in principle, the content of this section changed so that, when it was previously paid to appoint the Government of the Republic, it is now laid down by law. The law says that the grader's salary is half the grader's salary. So there's legal clarity in the law. The fifth amendment concerns the entry into force of the law. If there was no provision for entry into force in the original version and there was a normal procedure for entry into force, then now, because of the change that brought in the Director of the Supreme Court, that provision is. Now the deadline for entry into force had to be added. So, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, there was no time limit for entry into force in the original version of the draft, as the law is intended to enter into force in general. However, as a result of this first proposal, according to which the post of director of the Supreme Court would be fixed in the future, it is necessary that the proposed law enter into force no later than 1 January 2021. That's where it came from. This decision, too, became consensual; everyone understood the meaning of it. So, all the amendments were accepted by consensus, there were no disputes. As regards procedural decisions, it was proposed to put this draft on today's agenda. The second decision was to conclude the second reading and the third was to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda for the third reading and that the final vote be taken on 10 June 2020. These decisions, too, were all consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-04_U70	Thank you very much, dear waitress. There are no questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? I don't see the wish for negotiations. Let us examine the amendments to Bill 175. First amendment, from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, proposed by the commission: take full account. The second amendment, as well as the proposal from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and also the proposal from the commission: take full account. Third amendment, from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, proposed by the commission: take full account. Nobody calls for a vote. Fourth amendment, from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, proposed by the commission: take full account. And the fifth amendment, as well as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the proposal of the commission: take full account. The amendments have therefore also been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 175. Second reading is over. Our agenda is exhausted and the hearing is closed. Thank you very much. Closure of the sitting at 11.52 a.m.
