ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U1	Thank you. Luckily, you heard the call for presence control. Now I hope you can hear everything else better. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of State Administration Jaak Aab and Minister of the Environment Rene Kokk. And as always... Is there a procedural question? Kalle Grünthal, please! Kalle Grünthal's microphone, please turn it on! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U2	Thank you, Mr President. The question concerns the organisation of the Riigikogu. The corona virus is now known to be common worldwide and the corona virus has also reached Estonia. What worries me right now is that, at least according to social media, our good colleague Marko Mihkelson was known to visit Tenerife. He was already in the hall yesterday. Under the Infectious Disease Prevention and Control Act, it could be a suspected person of an infectious disease. The problem is that if this argument proves to be proven, the entire work of the Riigikogu will be disrupted for a very long time. As a result of the above and in accordance with § 13 (2) 20 of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, please and I propose that the Management Board of the Riigikogu be convened. This point states that the Management Board of the Riigikogu shall, if necessary, convene the representatives of the political groups to hear their views on matters relating to the organisation of the work of the Riigikogu. The reason is that we should still try to maintain our working capacity at Parliament's level. In my opinion, in the current situation, it is completely irresponsible that a person suspected of having an infectious disease is present in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U3	Thank you. This is indeed an extremely important issue, which concerns precisely the working capacity of the Riigikogu. Yesterday, the Riigikogu Board was together, and we also discussed what to do about the current situation, and we agreed that we would make a number of urgent recommendations to the members of the Riigikogu. One was not to go on a business trip and to consider going abroad very seriously. We will no longer coordinate travel to crisis areas and stop all foreign groups from coming to the Riigikogu. We're not gonna announce a real quarantine for now. These events and group visits, which have already been agreed, including those that have been invited by the MPs, will be allowed to take place, but in the future, we will ask the members of the Riigikogu not to invite any more visitors here. Anyone who has come from suspicious areas or through areas where there is a risk of getting infected by all members of the Riigikogu and, of course, the staff of the Chancellery, could be at home for two weeks, just in case. If we really do have some kind of case and we have to declare quarantine, unlike the board, who can hold electronic sessions, the Riigikogu does not have any other options. The Home and Rules of Procedure Act provides that we must physically gather, and that means that in the event of an outbreak, we can no longer do our job. In order to change the situation, the law on our home and work arrangements should be amended, some kind of electronic systems should be set up to enable us to work remotely. It's all very complicated. But as far as Marko Mihkelson is concerned, Tenerife has not been declared a crisis area, so in that sense we cannot impose any barriers. And the saddest thing is that as long as there is no government, no state declared emergency or crisis situation, we cannot prevent our colleagues from coming here. It's the saddest. But if people really have any symptoms, we're really asking everyone to stay home. One of the issues that we discussed was the situation if it really happened that we had to quarantine people from different political parties at home and that they could not participate in our work. In that case, we will lose the balance of power in the Riigikogu. In several countries, for example, England, there is such a solution that each opposition politician or coalition politician has been appointed as a "partner" to the opposite side. It's a game of honor. If there is a large number of emissaries on one side, the same number of emissaries on the other side will not participate in the vote. The vote thus remains objective. But it requires a meeting of the body of elders, a debate with the chairmen of the political groups, so that we can reach such an agreement of political honour. But these are all things to think about. The hand is up on Kalle Grünthal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U4	Thank you for your explanation, Mr President. I agree that Tenerife may not be such an infectious place, but it is still airports. [[???Hääl saalist: 'Te olete haiged inimesed.'???]] I thank you, Marko Mihkelson, for naming me sick. Thank you. (Voice of the floor: "He said that you are sick people. ') Sick people... The question, however, is whether, let us say, on an ethical level, the governing board of the Riigikogu could discuss these issues together with the chairmen of the political groups. Then perhaps such insulting remarks would not be made at the address of our party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U5	This is certainly an issue that we must discuss together, not only at the board level, but also with the body of elders and political groups. Kert Kingo's got his hand up. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U6	I would like to point out that, in a situation where we are recommending that residents remain quarantined for two weeks after a trip abroad, just in case, MEPs could set an example for everyone and thus give our message that we are all very interested in keeping the impact of this disease as low as possible. The primary task of a Member is to set an example for everyone in his/her behaviour.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U7	Yeah, I totally agree with that. It is our duty to set an example. Fortunately today, the situation in Estonia is such that everyone infected is infected abroad. There is not yet a case in Estonia, at least as far as I am aware, that this disease has spread within the country. If we see what is happening in other parts of the world, including our neighbouring country, Sweden, we can be happy that this has not yet come to us. But surely Estonia is not an isolated island, and we must be extremely careful and already proactively take different measures. And that is why the Board decided yesterday that we would put all the members of the Riigikogu to heart: if the slightest doubt is that there may be an infection with the SARS virus, then stay home and not come here. Looks like no more questions... Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U8	Good manager! In this situation, do we leave Marko's soul alone? But shouldn't the law on home and working procedures be amended as a matter of urgency? We have schoolchildren in this e-governance doing two weeks of teleworking peacefully, but we, the e-governance parliament, are not going to be able to do that. Shouldn't we do something about it as a matter of urgency? I think that the consensus would be very high that it should be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U9	This is what we discussed in the Bureau, that it really should be changed. At the time when the Home and Working Procedures Act was made, it was probably simply not possible to think about such risks. The situation in which the spread of this virus could result in the Riigikogu being unable to do its job is, of course, not normal. There is an urgent need to make some legislative changes here. Yes, please, Mr. Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U10	I have learned so far that the Question Time of the Riigikogu is primarily intended as a tool for political parties belonging to the opposition of the Riigikogu. And now 14 minutes of this tool has been spent mainly for discussion between the coalition ambassadors and the chairman of the Riigikogu or the chair of the session. Is there any way you can compensate for this time? Or may I ask a little differently: has anything changed in the way the Riigikogu is governed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U11	Thank you. Nothing has changed, but since this topic is so important that ignoring it by the Riigikogu would be criminal, I think it is worth not only talking about these topics but also talking about them. But since there are no more questions, we can... Still is. Mr. Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U12	I have a procedural question. Can't we extend the briefing by the quarter hour that the EKRE hijacked from us? There is always little time for the opposition. Currently, EKRE has spent a quarter of an hour with its slogans.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U13	We will have a session of the Riigikogu at two o'clock, so there is no possibility of extension. But if we look at today's questions, there are exceptionally few: usually 16 or 17, today is 10. So I'm sure we can deal with them all if the questioners don't cross their timeline, as they usually do. Thank you! But let's get to Question Time. As usual, first there will be pre-registered questions. The questioner gets the opportunity to ask an additional question, and then there may be another question from someone else in the hall. The question is two minutes, please stick to it, and ministers have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U14	First, Riina asks for Sikk and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U15	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! I have asked many times about the government's work and how it works so far in Question Time. It is confusing that ministers are intervening in the area of our colleagues' administration and sending out strong messages internationally as well. On the other hand, the opinion of the Minister responsible for the administration is not trusted, but everyone considers his/her gut and personal experience appropriate for making decisions that require expertise. Well, it's a natural time for learning, including learning to work together. But now we are moving away from the normal functioning of both health care and the economy, we are in a situation where emergency measures are being taken. And in this situation, information, the best knowledge, the involvement of experts, has an even more important role to play in mitigating risks, providing assistance and panic, which actually amplifies damage, preventing it. This is not a time for political battles, but for cooperation, for common priorities, for knowledge-based decision-making. And I'm asking you, is the government ready for this? The proposal made this morning by Kaja Kallas for cross-party cooperation is very welcome. I am surprised that a government building a coherent society has not already come up with such a cooperative proposal, both in the face of the opposition and in society at large. Do you consider cooperation and transparent information exchange important in a crisis situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U16	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you for that question. When it comes to the government's last six or seven weeks and even two months of action relating to coronavir, I think we have really been discussing it very actively in the government. At the very first moments, in fact, the government took into account the expert opinions of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Today, however, I think that the government is already in a completely different cycle: cabinet sessions take place several times a week and, as you said, we are also involving the best experts. Yes, we have done so and we will certainly continue to do so. At the government's last cabinet sessions, the Health Board has always been present, experts from the Ministry of Social Affairs have been present, as have people from the Ministry of the Interior. I'm sure we'll continue to do that. Now that you have asked if we are going to start operations, I say that the government has already started activities aimed at preventing the corona virus several weeks ago. What's the most important thing? What's most important to me? For me and for the government, it is certainly the most important thing to guarantee the lives of the Estonian people. All the risks that the corona virus could pose in our country must be done to prevent the spread of the corona virus. A great many concrete steps have been taken to this end. It has to be said that, at the beginning, if the ability of the Health Board to take samples was in question, it has actually been possible to do so. The ability to take samples has in no way prevented it from finding out whether a person is a carrier of the virus or not. Today, this capacity has expanded, it has expanded from Tallinn and will expand further this week. In addition, we have dealt with all the issues that have arisen. I am thinking of the protection of external borders and information from external borders. We have implemented the necessary measures and information at our land border, at our airport and also at ports. I agree that the overall cooperation between the opposition and the coalition is, of course, to be welcomed in a situation that changes at any moment in the economy and fiscal policy. That's what we need.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U17	Riina Sikkut, please specify the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U18	Thank you. If all these consequences of the quarantine of the corona virus were to stop traveling, uncertainty on stock exchanges, decrease in consumption, then they would have a strong international impact, they would eventually reach business and workers. If the impact reaches the labour market, it will actually reach people in the economy. Reduced incomes, concerns about servicing leasing and other loans, increasing uncertainty about the future. Then the role of the unemployment fund is very important: to provide substitute income, to provide retraining and further training for the period of unemployment, so that higher-income jobs can be achieved and perhaps to move to a new sector when the economy recovers. The cost of the unemployment fund is high in times of crisis, but the unemployment fund is prepared for it. To this end, it has been created in due course by agreement between employers and trade unions, and the unemployment fund has collected reserves. For me, on the one hand, it is surprising that the Minister of Finance already said yesterday that we are in a crisis. The question is whether such a strong message is needed now. My question is based on the assumption that, if we are already in crisis, the Minister of Finance will probably also know that in times of crisis, these reserves must be mobilised. What is the government plan for when the unemployment fund and the health insurance fund wish to use their reserves? If the unemployment fund needs to use reserves, this means that unemployment is already high. This, in turn, means that tax receipts will decrease and the State will probably need liquidity reserves to pay pensions. What, then, is the government's plan: how can we secure liquidity so that people can have this important source of income and also have resources to cover the other costs that are essential for the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U19	Thank you. If we come to this question and move on from the previous question, I certainly consider it important to intensify the interaction between the government and the Riigikogu in the current situation. I will try to take steps to contribute even more to this in the near future, both by myself and by the entire government. Now that you're talking about various financial resources, I was in touch with the Treasury Department today. Certainly in financial terms, the state will not fail and these financial resources will be available to the state today. In addition, the state has the capacity to borrow if needed at one point. As I said, when it comes to coronavir, the most important thing is the life and health of the Estonian people, it is certainly primary. Now that we are moving forward, of course we will not get over or around the danger signs that we have in the economy today. And there's a lot of danger signs in the economy. I think it is clear that the current economic forecasts no longer apply. At the same time, it is still impossible to make new definite forecasts, and so we need to be prepared for a possible crisis. I certainly want to congratulate the Minister of Finance here, who has been given the task of ensuring that the Estonian economy functions as normal as possible. This is an additional objective of the Government of the Republic in addition to preventing the further spread of COVID-19 in Estonia. As a result, a working group chaired by the Minister of Finance is already working together to map all possible threats, with warning signs. Well, you've already come to the forecasts with your question. Today, when I spoke with Eesti Pank and the Ministry of Finance, I heard that the forecasts are being clarified as soon as possible. As far as I know, the next task force meeting is Friday. And, of course, Estonia must also take extraordinary steps if they need to be taken. As regards supporting the people of Estonia at various stages of the process, you spoke about the liquidity of reserves, of course the government is ready for this. The government is ready to take concrete and major steps. The governance structure can be improved and the decision-making process accelerated. I intend to present the Government of the Republic with a proposal tomorrow to further strengthen the governance structure.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U20	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U21	Thank you very much for the floor. Prime Minister! Last Monday, or 2 March, the Social Affairs Committee met at an emergency meeting, where the authorities gave a very good overview of everything that has been done so far, how information is exchanged. It was encouraging and good to hear. There I made a proposal to send out a factsheet containing information directly to older people. By e-mail, information has come to our mailboxes, but the most vulnerable group, or older people, has not received this information because many people do not have the necessary information technology tools. It would prevent fear and panic, give people confidence, know how to act, how to prevent illness. And that same Monday evening, Agris Koppel, Head of Health System Development Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, called and said that the media team approved this proposal. There will be a bilingual, Estonian and Russian leaflet and perhaps there will be hope of sending it to the mailboxes by the end of the week. Yesterday at the Social Affairs Committee, I asked for information on this. I have studied the matter from a number of older people who live in different areas of Estonia, even in my own electoral area, this leaflet has not yet reached the mailboxes. Today, ten days have passed since this proposal, which was supposedly appropriate. Yesterday in the Commission, we were told that on Thursday the government would review or coordinate the text at the meeting. I have a question now. Tanel Kiik and the Health Board, after all, have compiled a text that has been sent to all of us by e-mail. Why do you need to review the text that goes to the elderly, to coordinate the government, and then it goes to the mailbox? It's been lost for 15 days.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U22	Thank you. First of all, this sharing of information, I think it is a very correct observation that you have said. I don't think you can ever say there's enough information in this situation. It really was also under discussion in the government office, and it was also our great desire to make such a direct post. There was also, I remember, a specific financial calculation of how much it would cost. We have been looking at on-going expenditures that have to be incurred by different sectors or ministries. They need to be sure that if they do anything, the government will cover these expenses after the reserve. And that fortress has been given to them. Yeah, you're right, e-mails have already been sent to people. Now your question about this direct post. There has not been a decision that on Thursday the government will look at this text and then decide. This direct mail is in front of me right now. The truth is that the Minister for Social Affairs has wanted to record as much information as possible that we consider necessary. This text is on the final round of coordination today and, as far as I know, it will be sent out this week. For example, one of the reasons why we needed to clarify things a little bit more was the question of whether we could create a dedicated phone, whether this capacity exists. This required cooperation in different areas. Today, as far as I know, this ability exists, and this hotline is going to work. We're talking about a phone number 1247. So this initiative the government has had and this information is being sent out. This observation that it is important to think about older people who may not be online every day and do not read e-mails is important. And really, in all the mailboxes in Estonia, this information goes. In particular, the information relates to the Corona disease COVID-19: what are the main symptoms, how the disease usually is and what we can all do to prevent it and prevent it from spreading. Of course, there is a great deal of hygiene, from the washing of hands to the fact that when a person is ill, he stays at home. Of course, different channels have been reported that can be used to contact a person when they feel symptoms: telephone numbers, e-mail addresses and special phone numbers are shown here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U23	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U24	Next, Keit asks for Pentus-Rosimannus and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U25	Good manager! Prime Minister! In addition to providing information on hygiene requirements, it is important for people to know that if they are in trouble, they will not be left alone in their distress. If we look at the experiences of other countries that have had to fight this virus, we can see that the countries that have been more successful in stopping the virus have been subject to very strict quarantine requirements for people who fear that they may have been exposed to the disease. At least one school is already closed in Estonia. The parents of kindergartens and pupils who have spent school holidays with their children at risk have been strongly advised to leave their children home for 14 days and to stay home. Of course, the kindergarten can probably not be left home alone, but not all parents can work remotely, and it is not possible to simply leave them financially on unpaid leave for two weeks. Employers, in turn, are unlikely to be able to continue to pay wages in a situation where people are simply at home and cannot work. Consequently, I have a question. You've probably discussed this situation in the government. How, in what extent, and if at all, does the government intend to contribute to these costs so that people who could later become carriers do not remain in quarantine? Many simply cannot use this quarantine option because they fear very serious financial problems. What plans are there in this regard so that we do not find ourselves in a situation where quarantine requirements or recommendations are not complied with?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U26	Thank you very much for this question. Indeed, this question has also been discussed in the study. I fully agree with you. This example of the school that you brought to us was actually known to come from a risk area. And that means today that in the order of 800 students and when teachers and other staff are added, a school with a family of 1,000 people is closed for two weeks. It was also a government initiative that if a person is found in educational institutions, whether a teacher or a student, who has a corona virus and is carrying it, that means that this school should go to jail for 14 days, naturally in cooperation with the Health Board and the head of the educational establishment. But the principle is that for two weeks it is recommended to hold the facility. We also know the position of the parents of this school. This is that the school can only be opened when new samples have been taken and they show that there is no virus, the answers are negative. The distribution of the infectious disease is actually punishable by a financial penalty provided for in Estonian law, in accordance with the Penal Code, even for imprisonment if the instructions of the Health Board and other prescribed procedures are not complied with. Today, the situation is that all sick people and those in close contact with them have the right to apply for the sick list from their family doctor and also to receive compensation. The health department was also asked to give a signal that if healthy people are in close contact with the sick, the family doctors would be sympathetic. For those who come from risk areas, the family doctor will be guided by a specific case. Of course, it is important whether there are symptoms and whether or not some of the infected have been exposed. In answer to your question, I will also say that, should an official quarantine be introduced, the reimbursement of sick leave on similar grounds will be made by issuing a regular sick leave. So much more I would like to say that I agree that not everyone can stay home for teleworking. But I hope that employers will be as understanding as possible and that the possibility of teleworking will at least be offered to those who have come from a risk area or who are in close contact with them. As far as the sick list is concerned, if the person is ill, of course he or she must apply for the sick list. As I said, the Health Department has been told that not only the infected but also the wider circle should have this opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U27	Thank you. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, a specific question please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U28	Thank you. I think it is very important that not only those who have symptoms of the disease themselves but also those who have been in contact with the sick or who believe that they may have been in contact with them are entitled to two weeks' compensation for staying home during the period when this danger is in the air. The Agency has, among other things, recommended the postponement of all major international events, which, in the same way, are clearly very necessary and reasonable in the current situation. But there are also events that do not directly qualify for an international conference or other international event. For example, a few minutes ago, information was sent to me that there should be a big Philip Kirkorov concert this week on Lasnamägi and that tickets are still being sold there. How does this coordination work for this type of event? What threshold does it make sense to cancel such events? Who makes such a suggestion? Have you discussed this in the government? Understandably, when it turns out later that someone who has been infected has been involved in a major event like this, it is very difficult to unravel the problem that comes with it. Of course, the current situation is also a question of the impact on the wider economy of the possible spread of the virus. How have you assessed this in the government, and how should it be handled?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U29	I thank you very much for this question, and specifically for mentioning the same concert. Yes, yesterday the Health Board recommended that the organisers push international events over the second half of the year because of the global corona virus. In any case, I support it with two hands. Now the question of what happens to national events. You asked if the government had discussed this. My own position is that we need to be more careful, rather we need to take more concrete and vigorous steps. As I said in reply to one of the previous questions, tomorrow I intend to propose to the Government of the Republic and the Cabinet both to strengthen the governance structure of the establishment of a government commission and to implement certain very specific measures concerning, among other things, specific events within Estonia that are not international events. I think all events involving a hundred or more people should be canceled. This is very clear today, and I think it is a very concrete recommendation. From this point on, we should think about: all public gatherings, say, in day centres, for example, as well as closing exhibitions, museums, etc. should be excluded. I think we have come to this phase that very specific recommendations must actually be made. And I think the Government of the Republic will consider it tomorrow, and tomorrow it will make its decisions in this regard. Now the concern that you raised on your question, which is linked to the general situation of the economy. It's on my heart and the whole government's heart, too. In a few words, I said what I think is happening in the economy, but if we move on from here to here, I think we must do everything in our power, both in Estonia and throughout the European Union, to prevent a greater deterioration in the economic situation. Several sectors have already been hit, it is clear that transport has been hit, tourism has been hit, the organisers of events have been hit. The future is unclear at the moment. But what I can say is that the government is doing everything it can to soften the damage and support economic growth. To this end, Estonia and the European Union have a number of tools that the government does not hesitate to use: be it to support companies in the affected sectors with fiscal measures, be it a more flexible approach by the EAS, an increase in public investment. Yesterday, we had a telephone conference at the European Council level, too, which was of the opinion that companies should be supported by state aid measures, as well as through the flexibility allowed by the Stability and Growth Pact.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U30	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U31	Thank you. Prime Minister! At the beginning of Question Time, the EKRE ambassadors showed me how I do not think we should behave in such a very serious situation. The Corona virus theme was pulled into a political fight. We should definitely avoid that. As my colleague, Mr Pentus-Rosimannus, said, those countries and regions that have acted very responsibly in the event of a case of disease have also made progress. South Korea, for example, is now showing very positive trends after China, as well as Tenerife, mentioned at the beginning of the sitting. On February 25, a hotel was quarantined because of tourists from Italy who were diagnosed with the corona virus. Yesterday, the quarantine ended. This hotel had a total of 865 visitors from 25 countries, with seven visitors with a positive diagnosis, six of them from Italy and one from Great Britain. And this is the current overall figure on the island, where there are quite a few Estonian tourists. In other words, twice the number of people who are now ill in Estonia has been identified there. Here's my question. We are currently guided in Estonia by the recommendations of the Health Board when planning work or holiday trips, as well as by the recommendations of the country of destination or destination. There are several countries, such as Israel, who have informed that all those currently travelling in any direction...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U32	Marko Mihkelson, your time is long gone!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U33	I'm almost done. ...in any direction outside the country, they must automatically be quarantined for 14 days when they return home. I would like to remind you that last week, quite a few of our colleagues and government members were traveling abroad...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U34	Please tell me if there has been any change in the government-level advice given to people who are now on a trip or returning home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U35	Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U36	Marko Mihkelson, don't you really care about our rules of procedure and homework? Despite pointing out that your time is up, you're going to keep going completely undisturbed? It's not polite, it's ugly in every way, and it violates the order we all adopted. Please, stop things like this! Please, Minister! Yes, a procedural question, Mr. Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U37	Let me ask you a question. I'm sorry, I tend to pass time, too, I just can't make it to the end in time. I am asking for a specific code of conduct in a situation where it happens that I am speaking or that someone else is speaking the explanatory text and there is no time left to ask the question. Should we not ask the question, or what should be the course of action?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U38	You can ask the question right from the beginning and then add an explanatory text so that you can fit into the prescribed time. You must consider that each member of the Riigikogu has been given two minutes to ask a question. Stop! In the previous configurations, after that two minutes, the microphone is simply switched off. If you want such a solution, please! I would rather not make these comments, and that is why I hope that the members of the Riigikogu themselves will also watch the clock. The clock is up here, the clock is on your desk, you can see exactly how much time you have left to ask your question. Mr. Clothes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U39	Good President! Having been in significantly more configurations than you, I can assure you that the microphone has not been switched off if there is a very substantive question and in a few or a few seconds it has passed over time. And I would like to point out that what is currently being discussed is a very important issue that requires a substantive debate. The President of the Riigikogu does not have to observe seconds in a timely manner, but rather has to have a substantive debate held. I would point out that the opposition has repeatedly declared that we are not doing a political track on this issue. Marko Mihkelson's question was certainly substantive and important. I am absolutely convinced that the answer is also of interest to the Estonian public, who will definitely be watching us now. I think you did the right thing if you didn't interrupt Jüri Rata halfway when he passed a few seconds. I call on you not to do this now, too, if Jüri Ratasl should go over a few seconds to answer Marko Mihkelson's question. Be human and follow these rules on a need-to-know basis! This is a necessary discussion. Let us discuss and answer our questions!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U40	Thank you. Of course, it's a necessary discussion, but it's a matter of a few seconds, I'm sorry, it's a direct lie. Marko Mihkelson passed nearly half a minute of his time. And indeed, you should all have experience, not all, of course, but those who have also been in previous formations, to concentrate their story and fit it in two minutes. This should not be a problem, all the more so because the previous composition had one minute to do so. This is a time for asking a question, not for anything else. Do you have any more procedural questions for Mr. Clothes?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U41	The last procedural question concerns the concentration of your own speeches. So what exactly did we do for the first 15 minutes of this briefing? Would you also have no reason to concentrate your speeches and not to take away the opportunity of the opposition to ask substantive questions on this very important issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U42	I have never taken the opportunity of the opposition to ask substantive questions. Thank you. Please, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U43	Yes, thank you! First of all, if I may, by answering Mr Mihkelson's question, a few words for an introduction. I know that a member of my political group was also abroad, and quite a few, including the media, have taken an interest in it. He came from Italy and decided to be home for two weeks. In this sense, however, I fully agree with Mr Clothing that the subject is very substantive and if there are similar questions or concerns in working groups, also here in the Riigikogu, I think it is reasonable to ask about this. I apologise to the President of the Riigikogu and to the members of the Riigikogu. Mr. Clothes said I went over for a few seconds. I'm gonna fix myself, and I'm gonna try not to do it again. In replying to you, Mr Marko Mihkelson, I note that the level of danger is actually changing all the time. If you're asking if anything has changed, yes, it certainly has. It changes all the time. New risk areas are constantly being added. At one point, only northern Italy was spoken of, and now all Italy is spoken of. And I guess these risk areas are actually treated a little differently in each country. What do you mean, different? On the one hand, we see that some countries are not risk areas, but on the other, we see that there are actually many more infected per capita in these countries than in some risk areas. That information changes all the time. Speaking of foreign missions, the concrete example is that I personally reviewed my foreign missions yesterday. This month I had to go to the United Arab Emirates, where there was a business conference and questions about opening an embassy. Yeah, I'll call it off. The recommendation at the government level is to withdraw as much as possible from external missions. Everything that can be canceled must be canceled. I know that last night the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure had to go abroad to Croatia, he canceled it. You're saying some members of the government have been abroad after all. You didn't explain who was out there. But let's just say that when it comes to issues relating to the European Union, problems within the European Union, these meetings will naturally be attended if there is no other information coming from Brussels or from some Council. In particular, my foreign mission at the end of March, which relates to the European Council, yesterday we had a telephone conference, today we are going to and there I am going. The whole threat picture really keeps changing. And I say once again that some countries have been declared at risk, but in fact we see that in very many European countries the level of infection is much higher.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U44	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U45	Next, Helmen Kütt asks and answers the Minister of State Administration Jaak Aab.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U46	Many thanks for the floor, honourable Speaker, Chairman of the Board of the Riigikogu! I have a question about money, more specifically about the financing of local governments. I wanted to give it to the Minister of Finance in the last Question Time, but I ran out of time before I could ask him a question. If you look at what areas are within your competence, we can see that there is a firm commitment to developing local governments and their arrangements, financial management of local authorities. Since yesterday I sent you very specific materials concerning carer support granted to local authorities through the Equalisation Fund for both adults and children, I obviously do not need to explain for a long time. I will only say so much that from this very specific summary that I have given you, it is clear that the amounts allocated to adults and children being cared for by the Equalisation Fund are in a strong downward trend. It can certainly not be assumed that there will be no more adults to be cared for in 2024 or no more children to be cared for in 2026. Income tax receipts in municipalities outside the Golden Circle are not growing rapidly and this money is not enough, not all the obligations imposed and imposed on local governments are fulfilled. Perhaps, on the basis of this review of carers' allowances, you can give us some insight into how to help local authorities who are concerned and in distress?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U47	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu and the questioner! I need to correct the issue a little bit. It is not a question of allocating carer support from some form of support fund; it is one of the parameters of the compensatory fund. There is money in the fine-tuning fund that is allocated to level revenue. Basic income for municipalities is derived from personal income tax, land tax and other sources. The resources of the Equalisation Fund are decided by the municipality itself. There are many parameters that apply to how the Equalisation Fund is designed. A carer's parameter has also been in place: disabled children and adults have been taken into account; on the basis of their number, this carer's parameter has been in place. In recent years, due to different changes, these numbers have started to change. Firstly, this statistics, which includes people with disabilities, I think that as former Minister for Social Protection Helmen knows what was behind it. With regard to employment reform, these figures have started to change quite seriously. The Ministry of Social Affairs and the Association of Cities and Municipalities decided together in 2017 that this parameter would be gradually reduced and that this money would be transferred to age groups: older people, children, school children. That was the decision. The total amount in the Equalisation Fund has increased by EUR 25 million over the last three years. The Equalisation Fund was 82 million euros in 2017, 107 million this year and it is freely decided money. It is part of the income base, it is not addressed to one group or another or to a third group. The calculation is based on these parameters, and the municipality itself decides on the money for this income base: how much it pays the carer's allowance, how much it pays for other services or the other benefits it puts it into. This does not mean that the state is responsible for allocating money. The sums of municipalities have increased thanks to both the growth of personal income tax and the fine-tuning fund's money, and the way these parameters are set in the equalisation fund formula is the agreement between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Association of Cities and Cities. At the time, parameters were considered reasonable to follow age groups, and the caregiver parameter was omitted. These parameters shall be specified every five years. Negotiations can certainly lead to this every year, but for the time being, such a common decision has been the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U48	Helmen Hunter, a question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U49	Thank you very much for your reply, Mr. Minister for Administration. I would like to say that when you started answering my question with an explanation of what a fine-tuning fund is and what a support fund is, it could give the questioner the impression that the answer does not have the subject. When you listened to my question, you know I was talking about the fine-tuning fund. But that's it. It is very good to know that in 2017, as you said, the Association of Cities and Municipalities and the Ministry of Social Affairs or the Government agreed that this parameter would start to decrease. We remember very well that a social minister announced that if people needed a nursing home, they would get the place so that the loved ones would not have to pay for it. You know what this brought to the social workers? People stepped into the local self-government and demanded that the nursing home be provided free of charge for them or at least very much supported. There were so many of them that it began to interfere with the other work of social workers. I don't have another question for you, because populistly, you can answer me anything. I was hoping for a substantive answer from you, and as former Minister of Social Affairs, I assumed that this answer was substantive. But let him be. I guess I'll continue to communicate with the municipalities, and I'm sure the municipalities that have problems will contact the community of municipalities and cities. Obviously, without the knowledge of the local authorities, such an agreement has been concluded.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U50	I'll do it again... Thank you. I had to talk about this issue because the claim that something has been reduced is wrong. That the amount of money, the amount of money, has been reduced, is completely wrong. The volume of the Equalisation Fund has increased by 25 million in three years. This maintenance parameter applies to the Equalisation Fund. The total amount has increased, the money hasn't been given less. And the fine-tuning fund's money is decided by the municipality itself. It's not labeled money, it's for all municipal service developments. Just calculating the compensation fund takes account of the maintainer's parameter. There's a child at the age of 0, there's a school-age child, there's an elderly person, and there's a different parameter in the formula. And it was agreed that the Career Support parameter would be transferred to other parameters. That doesn't mean the money has changed. The total amount of money in the fine-tuning fund has increased by 25 million. To make it look like something's gotten worse to fund is wrong. That's what I said here. I agree with the fact that social services are unevenly funded in local governments, both as former Minister of Social Affairs and as current Minister of Public Administration. And there have been examples of that. There has also been a court case and it has been proven that the municipality does not provide certain services to an adequate level. There's still a lot of work to be done here. The current Minister for Social Affairs has also brought the subject of long-term care into the office. We have decided that we, together with the local governments, will tackle these problems more seriously, which have been unsolved for years, also in previous governments. We also want to channel more resources there. The income base of the municipalities has increased by 185 million over the past four years, thanks to the increase in the share of personal income tax received by the municipalities and the increase in the share of the compensation fund. So it can't be said that something is reduced somewhere. The total revenue of the municipalities is expected to increase by 30% by this year and this year will amount to EUR 2.3 billion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U51	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U52	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good minister! I understand that, in the same way, we want to give local authorities more freedom to use the money that the state allocates to them, but on the other hand, we are reading the news, as was the case in the near future, that millions of the money earmarked for substitution care have not been used by the local authorities. This means that children in substitution care receive different services in different regions, although it is as if the state has allocated money. What have you done to get the money for replacement care to those in need, as you should?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U53	Thanks for the question, asker. This is a topical question and has indeed been the subject of the news in the example of the city of Tallinn, in the example of other municipalities. It has really been very uneven across Estonia. In some places, money has also been allocated to care families and there are, in fact, substitute homes inside, i.e. orphanages, right? The Minister for Social Affairs has now proposed, in the current negotiations that we have with the municipalities, that this matter should definitely be discussed. But we have a wide range of topics on the table that concern the social field. The general view is that the level of social services is uneven, and I agree with it, and so do the municipalities. Social protection costs have now started to increase slightly in recent years, because municipalities, as I said, really have more resources. They have now started to contribute more to social services. But for the level to be more even, better, more understandable, you have to bet hard on it. The Minister of Social Affairs proposed to increase this minimum, which is currently paid by one or the other municipality to care families, at least twice, because the funds have been allocated to the municipalities enough to do so. I agree with this proposal. But how to organise all this in local governments can always be improved.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U54	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U55	The next question, No 4, is asked by Mart Võrguship, is answered by the Minister of the Environment Rene Kokk. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U56	Minister, thank you very much. This week, the Riigikogu in the Committee on the Environment was discussing the cultivation of forest plants in Estonia and their sufficient supply. People in this area claimed that, unfortunately, we do not have sufficient reserves in Estonia, we need to bring outside Estonia into forest plants and their quality may not be such as to provide us with enough quality and valuable forest in the future. We also had a private forest centre, from which we studied how planting in private forests goes at all, whether it is done enough or not. The current forestry development plan foresees that planting could restore 40% of private forests, but in fact this figure had to be even lower. RMK's number is 70%. As a result of the discussion, we have come to the conclusion that, in fact, the percentage of planting in private forests should in fact be even higher, but at the same time we do not have enough forest plants in Estonia. My question is: what is your position and what are the activities of the Ministry now? Will the forestry development plan be designed to increase the percentage of innovation in private forests? If so, is there additional support for private forest owners to encourage this process? Also, in order to have enough plants in Estonia, is there any way to encourage or support the emergence of forest farms in Estonia? The debate also revealed that the proposal to supplement the use of resource efficiency measures in this way is being prepared. So what happened to the proposal when it was?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U57	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioner! It is true that, through the previous resource efficiency measure, there was also a plan to support the cultivation of forest plants. Unfortunately, a large part of the money for this measure was decided to be spent on other things from the state budget, but it is not really a measure at the moment. In the Ministry of Rural Affairs, a measure is opening up in the autumn of this year during the budget negotiations. That is a million euros, and a little more than just growing forest plants. But the other problems you marked yes, it is true that there are no major problems with RMK. RMK's clear cutting area is about 70-80% full, and in private forest cultivation, this figure is close to 30%. You mentioned that in the previous forestry development plan it has been agreed that 40% should be replanted, now it is, yes, around 30%. And that's the problem. But in the big picture, once the European Union's money negotiations are in place, then in the next period from 2021 and beyond, we will certainly be able to use these tools to move forward with the cultivation of forest plants. In the meantime, we'll have to manage on our own. But the Environmental Investment Centre still has one measure: up to EUR 20000 has been granted over three years in order to qualify for de minimis aid for the cultivation of forest plants.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U58	Mart Networker, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U59	The issue to be clarified is the resource efficiency measure. When we had budgetary discussions here, I personally proposed that it should not be withdrawn from the 39 million budget, which was planned for this measure. Unfortunately, the Minister of Finance claimed that it has not been used, it is not necessary. Now, in retrospect, however, it turns out that different target groups and interest groups still had wishes and plans to use this money. Now the question: if we start discussing the budget for 2021, will you stand by the government to restore the resource efficiency measure? Or do you expect, for example, support from this Riigikogu so that such a proposal can be made by me? And would it get support?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U60	I am certainly standing up for this and the negotiations to get the money back into this measure are already under way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U61	Thank you. No further questions. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U62	Andres Sutt next asks and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U63	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! I would first like to congratulate the Estonian authorities, who, in my opinion, have done a very good job of informing people and also taking care of people's health. But now when you answered Mr Helmen Hunt's question, I did have a problem. How can it be that a direct mail of a single letter takes so long? The content of this letter that they want to post directly, I understand, is identical to what was sent as an e-mail. Why does it have to go through the debate and coordination of the Cabinet? And the office also discusses what this direct mail costs. Maybe you'll comment on that too. But I want to ask you about yesterday's presentation of Finance Minister Martin Helme in the 'First Studio', where he claimed that the economic crisis was at hand. I honestly admit that it was a little surprising for me to think that maybe it wasn't the most balanced statement. I think it is very important to maintain peace and to inject peace into people as well in all this. As for the stock market indices, which have fallen a lot, it is true. Indeed, S&P500 has fallen by 15% in one month, but in annual terms it is +5.6 and in five years it is over +40. Do you think there is an economic crisis in Estonia and elsewhere in the world? And if you think so, please also open up which indicators and estimates it is based on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U64	Thank you for this question. First of all, from this letter. I say, as I said to Mrs Helmen Hunter, that there has been no, I don't know, government hearing on how we send out one letter or whether we even send out one. However, these messages are very important. And who else is responsible for the dissemination of this information and the whole situation, if not the Government of the Republic? Of course he's responsible, and he's doing his best. He will do his best to prevent the spread of the corona virus in order to give the people very specific and clear messages that must still be followed today in a very high-risk situation. We are talking about the situation caused by the corona virus in Estonia. But don't take it as an emergency, I didn't say it was officially announced. No, it's not! But surely the situation is quite different from that of the flu season, for example. And it's different because this virus is completely new. This virus has not been studied, its spread, its spread, its spread, is not known. And we also see that the media picture is quite different from the regular flu season. I will also begin by responding to your fundamental question by very much congratulating Minister of Finance Martin Helme, who has taken the bull very quickly. We are already talking about the signs of economic danger and what happens when it is passed on to budgets. You're asking me what my assessment is. As I said, my assessment is that there are many threats in the economy. The current economic forecasts are no longer valid, we do not have any new ones at the moment, and we must certainly be prepared for a possible crisis as well. We must do our best here in Estonia and throughout the European Union to prevent the overall economic situation from deteriorating. As I said, sectors that have already been hit. I talked to EAS today. They discussed yesterday, and they are also discussing how to alleviate the situation, how to allow flexibility, especially for event organisers, and not just here in Estonia. They also want to deal with requests from those who have received financial support to carry out their events outside. These tools, these measures, will certainly be available to the government. The government is ready to take all measures and to consider that the damage to our economy is as low as possible. We want to cushion the potential economic downturn and, in any case, contribute to economic recovery and growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U65	Andres Sutt, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U66	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I read from your reply that you believe that there is no crisis in the Estonian economy and that the working group convened by the Minister of Finance deals primarily with the development and preparation of measures. I think that's very reasonable. Of course, we must prepare for a situation where the economy is in a different, much worse situation. I don't think anyone's gonna mind. The virus has a significant impact on the world economy, and also has a significant impact on the Estonian economy. The question is what is the short-term and long-term impact. But perhaps then you will reaffirm that you believe that the crisis is not yet in place and that the government is dealing with a proper and good package of measures for a situation in which the economy really should fall into a crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U67	Thank you. I do not understand what the Reform Party has to do with this economic crisis. I remember the sentence of more than ten years ago that if it is a crisis, I would like to live in this crisis. That, of course, is not what I said, that is the sentence said by the Prime Minister at the time. If you want me to repeat my answer, I will repeat this to you: it is certainly a fragile economic situation. That's clear. We must be prepared to face more difficult times ahead. That is what I feel today, in any case, that is the position of specialists I share. And against it, as I said, we can take different measures. I am certainly of the opinion that several ministers have already said here: when we are talking about economic recovery and state measures, the only position that was chosen ten years ago that we are going to a full cut, I certainly do not support. As I said, increasing potential public investment should, in my opinion, be primarily a focus. Last night's European Council video conference also said that decisive action was needed to support businesses. For example, state aid measures were discussed, but the flexibility allowed by the Stability and Growth Pact was also discussed in order to ensure the competitiveness and security of businesses in the labour market and to avoid long-term negative economic impacts. I was in contact today with the European Commissioner, Paolo Gentilon, and I asked whether greater flexibility could be envisaged in the Stability and Growth Pact with regard to coronavir. He assured me he was. A few countries have already addressed this to the Commission, Italy and Slovenia, as far as I know. A very important task force has been set up under the direction of the Minister for Finance. It is an inter-agency task force that charts the situation and takes the initiative. It has been mapped out which areas of the economy are mostly hit, and now it is thought of which solutions would be the most appropriate to support them. In addition, various scenarios will be analysed as to what impact the government could have on economic growth and the budgetary strategy of Estonia, as is known. Possible bottlenecks in the financial sector will also be separately mapped. Appropriate measures and solutions are expected to be developed over the next few weeks so that they can be taken immediately as the situation gets worse. Eesti Pank is also involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U68	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U69	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Indeed, I certainly agree with you when you say that there are many threats in the economy and more difficult times ahead. The Chairman of the Board said today that people may begin to feel these problems in the autumn. One of the key measures to cope with such a situation, i.e. the economic downturn, is the measures taken by the unemployment fund. Crisis always comes unexpectedly, but I think you're so smart that you don't live knowing that the good times will last forever. I'm sure you know that sooner or later the good times in the economy will be replaced by more difficult times. In the case of workers, there is a very high likelihood of an increase in unemployment in the context of the economic downturn. And to mitigate these risks, the unemployment fund has been collecting reserves for years. I explained yesterday: the unemployment fund has transferred its reserves to the Treasury for an amount of EUR 838 million, but now that the difficulties are at hand, there is a risk or likelihood that these reserves might be needed in the near future. And I'm asking you, how much really is left of the unemployment fund's reserves? Why am I asking that? The point is that these reserves have been used for purposes other than solving labour problems. Give me a scale! You said here on Monday that I'm asking for the percentage to be exact.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U70	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U71	I won't ask! Tell me how much is left, even to the nearest 100 million!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U72	Thank you, Mr. Sõerd. Well, I've learned from you that money numbers can't be inaccurate. They must be very specific. Now I'm trying to play Golden Fleece here in a good way. The questions come from different areas. As of the end of February, as far as I know, the stabilisation reserve was 414 million euros, the liquidity reserve was 845 million euros. You wanted to know exactly 100 million euros. Well, I understand you've worked 100 million in the financial sector here or there. In fact, that is not the case. These are very precise, specific amounts. I'll let you know within the working day. I promise I'll give you a specific amount, if you can, as of this morning, if not, as of the end of February. Anyway, as recent as possible. But I want to say this, which is why you are also hurting the heart here: of course, the work of the Estonian people, the bread of the Estonian people on the table is important. This relates on one side to what is happening beyond our borders, given the openness of the Estonian economy, but it is also very strongly linked to what measures we are prepared to take here in Estonia. And, as I said, the primary sense, at least at government level, is that these measures should be more proactive, much more helpful than they were over a decade ago. It certainly does not come out first of all that we are going to cut the entire budget hugely and thus slow down growth even more and lose jobs in this way. I don't know if you're gonna take this as a lesson that was then: this insane cutback. I'm sure you can't do that today. I fully agree with you that the economy will have to be stimulated when the recession begins. As I told you, we must also be prepared for greater public investment, which in any case gives people work and bread within Estonia. So the problem is understandable. And if you don't mind, not exactly 100 million here or here, these are big money. As I promised, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U73	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U74	Next, Katri Raik asks and answers the Minister of State Administration Jaak Aab. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U75	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, You recently visited Ida-Virumaa and stressed there that the fair transfer fund's money of 500 million instead of 125 million, as has often been said, remains in Ida-Virumaa. I would ask that you repeat today that there will be no other investment, certainly necessary, of this amount. And the other part of my question is that the third month of the year is currently running, but the construction of the oil plant, which is 125 million this year's state budget, is not as if it is hard or hard. At the same time, the decision of the refinery is spreading. The coalition of which you are minister stresses that there is no need for quick Püxit. People in Ida-Virumaa believe only that there will be no quick Põxit when clarity comes about the oil factory. And it was clear to the people of Ida-Virumaa, it's only when the knock is down.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U76	Thank you for the current question, Member of the Riigikogu. You are well aware of the region's activities. We met in Kohtla-Järve and actually shared relatively clear messages: what has been decided, what cannot be decided at the moment and what time will be decided. The fair transition fund is a proposal from the European Commission. This concerns the decisions of the whole of the next funding period, which the Prime Minister recently negotiated at the Council and is likely to have to go again. This is part of the European Union's funding period. There's three pillars, I'm not going to tell you the details, you know. The first pillar relates to grants and loans, and I am thinking of this so-called 'fresh money'. It's not coming out of the ceiling, it's probably coming from the same frame for other resources. After all, MFF is a beautiful name for this frame, which includes other structural instruments. This will certainly provide an opportunity to carry on these activities and to continue the measures that we have already taken in Ida-Virumaa. It is likely that these activities and measures can be expanded, increased and increased. I'm not giving you the money, it's a matter of negotiation. However, an indicative number has been said that there may be 125 million in 2018 money in the first pillar; today it is about 141 million. We will continue to negotiate to increase this amount. That's one. The second thing concerns the contribution of money from other structural funds and the contribution of Estonia to this side, as well as the contribution of own contribution. Everyone thinks it's some kind of mystery. It's not a mystery. We have monitoring of the Ida-Viru Action Plan every year. In four years, the state of Estonia will contribute 250 million euros to various activities and investments in Ida-Virumaa. So, in fact, this money is still being contributed, we are simply raising the level of this contribution. I certainly emphasised at that meeting that, in fact, there will be much higher amounts in the second and third pillars if this proposal is realised as such. The second pillar is intended for the private sector, not just in Ida-Virumaa. It is also intended to increase the potential of renewable energy and is certainly aimed at this region as well. In general, we need to think quickly. I think that the measures to be implemented through the first fund will be clarified and improved. After all, we have action plans and programmes and we are going to ask the locals again. But the trick is the second and third pillars. If we get the money out of there, it'll give us a good chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U77	Katri Raik, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U78	Good minister! Unfortunately, I didn't get an answer about the oil plant and the refinery. But my second question is, in fact, that there are different ideas currently being put forward with regard to the fair transfer mechanism and its part, the fair transfer fund. For example, Minister Kaimar Karu has spoken about agropark, film studio, hydrogen plant, Minister Tõnis Lukas of the IT Academy. What will happen to these ideas, and which of these ideas does your heart belong to?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U79	Thank you! I'll give you a brief answer about the oil plant. As far as the pre-refinery is concerned, you know that VKG and Eesti Energia will carry out a cost-benefit analysis. It's not that easy. We'll see what's happening in the oil market again, won't we? In fact, profitability depends very much on what prices do. But in the long run, something is likely to be predictable. As regards the new oil plants or the entire oil shale sector, I do not agree that nothing has been decided. For example, the decision we made as soon as this government came into operation. We were looking for a way to use low-value timber to produce electricity. These negotiations have taken place with the European Commission. Now the decision has been made, and we are asking for authorisation of state aid. Well, I can't predict and I won't let you take poison on it, but it looks like we're gonna get that pass. Perhaps this can boost the competitiveness of electricity produced from oil shale and biomass. This is the same fact that we need a transitional period to switch from the oil shale sector to other jobs in Ida-Virumaa and find other solutions for energy production in Ida-Virumaa and elsewhere in Estonia. I'm sure you also know that some of the boilers are included in the reserve. About what? They are in reserve in such a way that Estonia's energy supply is guaranteed, and we have not changed this decision. So there have been absolutely clear decisions, and the will of the government is absolutely clear behind it. We're not going to close anything until we have clarity, unless we have further decisions. That is what I said in Kohtla-Järve, and that is what others who were there said: both Kadri Simson as Commissioner for the European Commission and Taavi Aas Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. As regards the proposals for a fair transition fund, i.e. the proposals that came from ministries and also from specific ministers, they were actually initiated by another process, which is, of course, related to this: it is the renewal of the Ida-Viru County Action Plan. At the end of last year, the government decided that we would extend this action plan, which was to end this year, for another ten years, including the activities of the Ida-Viru programme. And now we are going to harvest to hear first from the ministries what needs to be continued from the activities that have been so far and what new activities or investments they are proposing. And these two processes are linked, as well as the upgrading of the development strategy of Ida-Virumaa, carried by the Association of Municipalities of Ida-Virumaa. We go on with these processes, and then we get answers when we know the sums, whether one or the other beautiful and good idea can be applied. I am saying that something can be done with the second pillar, where there is much more money.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U80	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I will continue to ask this question not specifically about the pre-refinery, but about the second oil plant. This is what the budget is for this year. The situation is changing rapidly all the time, oil prices on the world market are going through turbulence. I asked Minister Helme some time ago about the fact that, at the time of making this year's budget, the public sector's state budget investments were postponed to the road constructions, the airport, and all that was just delayed, but what was the case was the second oil plant. It was definitely in place. Then I asked whether it was absolutely necessary from the budget this year or, rather, what would be done with this money this year. And Minister Martin Helme said that at least the design bills must be paid. Now I'm asking you this. The world market situation has changed, oil prices have fallen significantly. Are these timetables in place today? And tell me your assessment too: do you really have to put more than EUR 100 million in taxpayers' money in an area that is extremely sensitive to fluctuations in oil prices on the world market? With this EUR 100 million, jobs could be created in Ida-Virumaa, which is less dependent on world oil prices.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U82	Thank you for your question. I guess I can talk about what we've already done in Ida-Virumaa. Over 700 jobs have been created in industrial parks in Ida-Virumaa over four years. In the Ida-Virumaa programme, which started to support investments in industrial parks and elsewhere, so that there would be new jobs with a salary higher than the average in Estonia, six grants have been decided, which will create 150 new jobs with good pay. So we're gonna do something. It's like nothing's been done, but now we're going there and we're going 100 million, and there's going to be an increase in the number of jobs. This still needs to be done through concrete actions, concrete measures, then it will help. Support for industrial investment has contributed to the addition of KredEx and will also come to the bank. So the leverage we give for this support for investments is multiple, ten times even often. The issue of the oil plant is difficult at the moment. It has to be digested first. But we have not changed the general approach that oil production during the transition from oil shale energy will help maintain jobs in this region during the transitional period and will benefit the Estonian state. Nobody says the price of oil stays that way. We find that in the long run it still moves. Two years ago, another decision was made that the resource charge depends on the price of the world market. They asked me if anything had ever been done to make sure it didn't go down. Taavi Aas promised to meet oil producers and representatives of the sector in the near future and negotiate the situation, the developments. And then decisions have to be made. I owe you an answer right now. I don't know what to say. The development perspective must be considered, and then the government can decide whether or not Eesti Energia will invest this money in a new oil plant.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U83	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U84	Next, Jüri Jaanson asks and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U85	Thank you very much. Prime Minister! I am, of course, first of all, sorry: there is a situation at the moment where your attention should be focused on one big issue, or resolution of the crisis. I hear that we are moving towards even greater restrictions, even an emergency situation, and I would like you to have the strength to resolve this with certainty. But I can't get over or around the current issue, which is sign-speaking deaf people, to whom the only link with ordinary society is the interpreters. The translation with this certificate is currently 24 in Estonia, with 10 more in vocational training, but the real need is more than twice as much. At all times, there is a need for 70-80 interpreters. The problem is that the University of Tartu, where the sign language translation with higher education has been trained, ended its admission to this specialty. I ask what the government's objectives and thoughts are in this regard. This may be a small bottleneck for society as a whole, but it is a very important and big issue for the deaf that should be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U86	Thank you. I certainly think that the whole issue of hearing loss must, on the one hand, be very well seen in society, and, on the other hand, there must be all kinds of support structures that guarantee people who already have hearing loss subsidies for the necessary apparatus and mechanisms. This is certainly a serious social challenge for society so that people can improve their hearing through support measures, including support systems, as far as possible. It's not always possible. If you ask about a specific plan, let me make it clear, with the help of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and let you know what the state of the plan is and what will be in the future. At the moment, I have no information to answer to you specifically about plans for people with hearing loss.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U87	Mr. Jaanson, thank you. For strength! If you don't mind, I'll pinch you for ten seconds. Mr. Sõerd, if you'll excuse me, I've got this number. At the end of February, the unemployment fund had 919 million. I'm glad I didn't offer 100 million here or there. 919 million at the end of February 2020. Now, Mr. Jaanson, thank you! I do not think that this issue is at all of minor importance, and you have been one of the initiators in the Riigikogu to resolve the issue of sign language translation for deaf people. I have told you before, and today I am also saying that I am taking this issue seriously. I have asked three ministers, both the Minister of Social Affairs, Education and Science and the Minister of Culture, to bring this whole issue to the office this March-April of this year so that we can decide how to solve it. We are now talking about national broadcasting, where not only subtitles but also the possibility to translate sign language should be used as widely as possible. The second topic you brought in is how many people we have who possess sign language, and whether the University of Tartu, as you said, has closed the reception. If we discuss this issue in a complex way, I will certainly raise this issue as well. If there are.. and there are probably money issues, I think we need to do everything in our power to resolve the issue of national broadcasting, on which you have indicated that the availability of sign language programmes should be improved, as well as the issue of learning sign language interpreters.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U88	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U89	Thank you. I hope that my colleague, Jüri Jaanson, as well as my colleague, Jüri Ratas, will forgive me that I, too, will ask on this main issue, which is now topical. I'm taking this opportunity because I just couldn't get a shot at the last few questions. Like Jüri Jaanson, I have heard that the government is considering declaring different escalated situations. My suggestion is that you certainly consider nine times before you cut it, because no announcement in itself will solve the crisis, but it may exhaust the state's resources. And then, should the situation really escalate, it must be taken into account that these resources may be exhausted. So I suggest you keep your head cold and be sure to listen to what the various authorities recommend to you. They've been through these exercises many times, and they're professional. I join all those who have recognised the Estonian authorities. Now, in the event of any crisis, communication is critical, especially whether there is a single information coming from the various official channels. I think that the Health Board and also Minister Tanel Kiik have been very clear in their messages, they have said what restrictions are, how they should be followed. Their messages have been perfectly logical; their content is understandable. However, the Minister of Finance has said that the crisis is actually much bigger. He's been telling some really scary stories. I'm not gonna repeat them here. And the Chairman of the Riigikogu made recommendations today, for example concerning stay at the airport, which are not in line with the messages of the Health Board. My question is very simple: should we follow the official recommendations of the Health Board, or should we listen to the talk of both goose fat and not go to the airport?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U90	Thank you. I don't think we need to measure it nine times here, but we need to measure it ten times here. Point one. Now, you mentioned various resources. I repeat: I think that the most important resource, which we can even talk about in this situation caused by the coronavirus, is an Estonian person, and the main thing is the protection of the health and life of Estonian people. This will certainly remain a priority for me and the entire government. I believe that the Riigikogu does not dispute this either. Now, communication. As I have already said, I intend to present my proposals to the Government of the Republic tomorrow to improve governance, to increase operationality. I also said that this requires the establishment of a government committee, which automatically also means that we need to think through all communication. I think the Health Board has done its best today and shown good communication. It is based on one of the objectives set by the Government of the Republic at the last cabinet meeting: to prevent panic in society and to raise people's awareness of preventing and treating the spread of COVID-19. It is clear that if governance of the situation comes more and more operationally to the level of the government, the State Chancellery will, of course, also play an important role. Now, you mentioned the airport and goose fat. Clearly, airports are a place where many people come from different countries around the world, from different parts of the world. And as I replied to Marko Mihkelson, who asked what had been the significant changes, which countries are on the list of risk areas: we see that the lists of these countries are drawn up differently. Some say that these are specifically four countries, while the Ministry of Foreign Affairs says that the countries to which travel is not recommended should be looked at more widely. So I don't think it's worth taking the risk of airports lightly at all. It's really a place where you can get infected. When it comes to goose fat, it's old folk wisdom. I have also said at the press conference of the Government of the Republic that any increase in my immunity is very important. Whoever does this, I don't know, with onions or garlic, who in other ways, but it's definitely important to increase immunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U91	Jüri Jaanson, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U92	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, thank you very much for this first answer, which contains important information. But I would like the government to think very carefully about how crisis information, when it comes, can reach people with hearing disabilities, including sign language interpreters. That's the first thing. But I also want to ask you a little more strategically, more broadly. I mean, prevention of hearing damage. The World Health Organisation confirms that the number of people with hearing impairments is growing rapidly and that in Estonian society nearly 9% of people have significant hearing loss. According to research, hearing loss is the greatest risk factor in middle age dementia, but it can be altered. This also indirectly concerns the issue of long-term care, which was mentioned earlier. Many causes of hearing loss can be prevented and mitigated. The World Health Organization argues that the real reasons why people lose hearing vary greatly from region to region and depend on resources as well as on others. To this end, it is important for each country to develop its own strategy to deal with hearing loss and its causes. My question is whether the Estonian state has such a strategic plan or whether it intends to draw up such a plan. What approach has the government had so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U93	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U94	Next, Urve Tiidus asks and answers the Minister of State Administration Jaak Aab. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U95	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for handling the current and necessary subject. As you mentioned, yes, such a general letter to the municipalities I sent last Monday. Well, there have been lessons. Recently, when we had a South-Estonian storm, we saw that nothing worked, that there was no plan. After the administrative-territorial reform, it was also the case that each merged entity had its own plan, but there was no common plan for the larger municipality. That's what happened. That was a good lesson. Now, since autumn, we have been very seriously clarifying with the Ministry of the Interior on the basis of this crisis, wondering how it would work better. Last Thursday we had a debate on this in the government office, where concrete proposals were also made to amend the Emergency Act. The current potential threat is actually a viral infectious disease and the situation is different in that the leading and coordinating authority is the Health Agency. We have also provided information that if local governments are legally reviewing the relevant plans and know who exactly has to do, what needs to be prepared for, then the Rescue Board is also prepared to consult and help. In each county, the Rescue Board has its own representation; they are ready to consult each municipality specifically. There have been different situations in regional crisis committees, not only a storm situation, but also a possible outbreak of infection. The Health Board should also manage regionally when the threat level rises and the next steps need to be made. Last night, the Council of the Association of Cities and Municipalities had the Health Board present, the representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs were present and there was quite a serious debate. There are still questions you don't understand. The Health Board has sent specific instructions to each municipality that should be considered, but the launch of the activities that need to be prepared is the result of the Health Board's risk assessment. For example, I asked for information on whether the municipalities were familiar with their officials' trips and travels and know who has been going somewhere, who is going somewhere. Have they analyzed this information and recommended that anyone who's been anywhere should monitor their state of health. And if there is no very urgent need, then perhaps there is no point in sending delegations everywhere right now. And another problem is nursing homes. I should have that information by tomorrow. Very many nursing homes have already blocked visits, and I think this is quite a sensible measure right now. It has not been banned by one hundred percent of nursing homes, but strong advice has been given.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U96	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Jaak Aab, Minister for Regional Affairs! On Monday, the World Health Organization warned that there is now a very real risk that an outbreak of a new corona virus could turn into a pandemic. A pandemic is defined as a "spoken disease' and is considered to be a transnational outbreak, the direction of which cannot be predicted. This has an impact on health, the economy, the regular and peaceful functioning of our lives. As of today, we cannot talk about the pandemic in Estonia, I hope very much, and all people hope that it will remain so, and everything will be done in the country and in the rest of the world. However, no authoritative and professional source in the world confirms that this virus is easy to control. Minister for Regional Affairs, you asked all local authorities to review the plans for preparing for the crisis on Monday last week. I quote you: 'Depending on the likelihood of further developments, it is absolutely appropriate to prepare for a possible crisis. ' This is your quote from Sulev Vedler's article published in Estonian Express today. I ask you how the regions, municipalities and cities that are farther away from Tallinn and Harjumaa are prepared for a possible crisis. Sometimes it is that the crisis plan is very good on paper, but more importantly and, as we all know, it is vital that people are really and practically prepared to manage the processes of the crisis and to turn situations into good. Please give an assessment of what is now and give some reasons! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U97	Urve Tiidus, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U98	There is news from the world that when health risks escalate, shops are bought out of basic everyday goods. There's news from different continents that toilet paper is running out, not to mention antibacterial products. Fortunately, after the first shock, the factories have been put to work faster, in South Korea, for example, ten times more masks have been produced a day, etc. But I ask about the remote regions of Estonia: are they in an equal position with others? I mean, medical care, prevention of infection, free testing, analysis and even information so that vital information can reach people quickly, even if they live in a remote village? And do you share such information if someone wants to take advantage of the situation, for example by e-mail and telephone? Every once in a while, there's this kind of news. What kind of feedback has come to you from people, and what wishes of local people have reached the Government of the Republic? And maybe you're so nice and you're also going to specify what the proposal to amend the law is that you mentioned in your first reply?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U99	Sorry, it was really hard to hear the end, I didn't get it. But I generally say the things that we have had in the government debate, for example, how to behave. The municipality has different rights and obligations depending on the situation. You were talking about the possibility of an epidemic or a pandemic situation. I assure you that we have a central crisis regulation at government level, and who needs to do what, this regulation also exists at regional level. Each municipality must know what it will do in the event of a particular threat. This letter of mine was a request for a proper review of who needs to do what. After all, food supplies are being dealt with centrally if it comes to that. But, for example, we told people that when you have travelled and come home and your symptoms are suspicious, not to mention that there is a person living alone or both family members infected and cannot get out of the house, we also suggested that the nearest aid is in the municipality. The municipality's social worker must be contacted, not to go to the store themselves to store stuff in this emergency store, but to call and the municipality must ensure that this assistance is provided if this is the case. So we keep an eye on the situation. And like I said, we're constantly testing what somebody's ready for. There will be more of these information days, for example The Health Board will, as far as I know, go to Ida-Virumaa tomorrow to make a separate information day for local governments. Those frequently asked questions are going through again. Frequently asked questions about what the municipality should take into account in the current situation have also been sent to local government leaders in the guidelines of the Health Board. And then the head of the government alone won't make it. Each municipality must have a well-designed circle of officials and other staff involved. For example, it is clear what social workers are dealing with, educational advisors are dealing with schools. The guidelines are shared by the ministries of the field. The Rescue Board provides guidance on the general situation, the Ministry of Education and Research talks about what should be done in children's institutions. These instructions have also been updated several times, for example in Tallinn, one school had to be closed down. So we are constantly monitoring the situation and giving further guidance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U100	Thank you. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I will continue with the issue of crisis preparedness. I am asking from this point of view that it is the more remote regions that are at risk in the event of a recession. It is very likely that people's jobs are at risk. Here the measures of the unemployment fund come into play or help, and reserves are needed for this. I had the same question for the Prime Minister. Some number was sent to him on the phone, but unfortunately, the Prime Minister deliberately or unintentionally misled him. The EUR 919 million that the Prime Minister has read here is the money that the unemployment fund has deposited with the Treasury. I asked him how much money there was left for today. The point is that the money collected in the unemployment fund's reserve has been used for other purposes. Why don't you come to the Prime Minister and help me clarify? My question was how much of this 919 million is left today. Maybe you can help.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U102	Thank you for asking and thank you for your concern that we still have sufficient reserves and reserves. As the Prime Minister promised, he will send you exact numbers. But the former Minister of Finance should know that basically reserves or, let's say, the cashier's liquidity was used just as successfully by the Reform Party. This money isn't lost, it's covered at a particular moment by taking short-term bonds, let's say. It's bookkeeping. The fact that something has been spent is not true. There's just no point in keeping reserves in a situation where their storage produces minus. The country basically has them and can be implemented when it needs to.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U103	Thank you. I will finish the discussion on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U104	Very quickly, please, Jürgen Ligi asks and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was self-defense. Mr. Ratas, you have praised for years that you are reviving the economy, and now we are in a situation where there is a risk of crisis. We should not be talking about the crisis, but we should be talking about the budgetary guarantee of preparedness for the crisis. How do you assess your story of previous years, now that the recession is feared? I am talking about the need to revive the economy in its peak situation with additional budget deficits, by spending reserves. How do you assess your views so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U106	Thank you. In financial terms, the state will certainly not be in trouble. I think our positions have been correct. You are probably thinking of the various packages that have been used over the last three years, with which both the previous and the current governments have really tried to boost the economy. I also support them afterwards, just looking at economic growth, which is primarily produced by the business sector and produced by the people of Estonia: it was higher than forecast last year, 4.3%. Employment has been very high and unemployment has been record low. The truth is, as you said, that the situation has changed very strongly in recent weeks. The signs of economic danger are up a lot in society. The government is playing a very active role here, trying to help make the impact on the economy as soft as possible. We want to do everything we can to stimulate the economy so that economic growth is as good as possible in the current situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U107	Thank you. I thank all the questioners, thank all the respondents. Question Time's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U108	Honourable Riigikogu! Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the 7th working week of the Riigikogu plenary session on Wednesday. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to pass on drafts and enquiries? Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U109	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Foreign Affairs, on a proposal from the Social Democratic Party Group, presents a draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe'. Its content is as follows: to exclude Indrek Saar, an alternate member of the delegation, and to appoint Raimond Kaljulaid as an alternate member of the delegation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U110	Thank you. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U111	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Members of the Riigikogu! I am handing over the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act, which was initiated at the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs, including on 9 March. This draft is due to the need for equal treatment of beneficiaries of pensions for years served by a police officer as well as beneficiaries of disability and survivors' pensions for a police officer and a border guard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U112	There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts and the Management Board processes them in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Hanno Pevkur, is this a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U113	Yes, thank you, Mr President. Before we can go to today's agenda, I have a question about the first item on our agenda today. In fact, it became clear in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs would like to discuss this point again. This debate took place the day before yesterday and yesterday. It now turns out that we do not yet have a final version of the minutes of the Constitutional Committee sitting yesterday so that the members of the Riigikogu can understand what we actually had in that committee. And what happened was actually very embarrassing and ugly. In order for this debate to be able to be held normally, this point should not be here before us today. We should discuss this next week, so that members of the Riigikogu can also get acquainted with the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This protocol is not yet complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U114	Thank you. The Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu does not specify exactly in which case there will be discussions in committees and in what form the protocols will be drawn up. The internship is very different. We have also dealt with the drafts repeatedly in this Chamber of the Riigikogu in such a way that the minutes are not yet complete or have not been signed by the Chairman. The Bureau has even discussed this issue in previous times and has also sent letters of formal notice and instructions to some committee presidents to ensure that the minutes are signed correctly and made available to everyone as early as possible. However, this has not prevented or prevented the debate on the agenda fixed by the large hall today. So we can proceed calmly with this item on the agenda, all the more so as both committees have already made their decisions and proposals to the large Chamber, both the lead committee and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Lauri West Forest, please! Is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U115	Yes, it is. Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I will continue with the same subject. I do not think that it is possible to move on with this either. Despite the fact that we discussed this issue at two sessions of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on Monday and yesterday, for example, the minutes of the Monday sitting do not reflect any of my questions, or even the answers given to them. I do not know how the Riigikogu can carry out the task provided for in the Home and Working Procedures Act. After all, it says that if we are having this debate, the Riigikogu must take into account the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as to whether or not the President's arguments comply with the Constitution. The problem in the Commission was even that we were tried to prescribe what the Members of the Commission thought, even though we had never had this debate in the Commission. In such a confusing situation, when the protocol does not reflect the things that should be there, I do not know how even the Commission's report can be made. As far as I know, Mr Kisler, who is supposed to be reporting here, did not make any notes. I don't think there's any way to discuss this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U116	Thank you. Both Commission proposals for a large hall exist. The form in which the debate is recorded in the minutes, as I said, does not provide for rules of procedure. And we will certainly get a comprehensive overview of the Commission's rapporteurs, both from the Committee on Monetary Affairs and from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It is also possible to ask them questions, so we will probably get a very constructive and thorough view of this debate. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U117	Thank you, Mr President. On this same point in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, according to some ambassadors, the rules of procedure were grossly violated, which are stated in the Rules of Procedure and in the Rules of Procedure, as well as those contained in the Constitution, such as the principle of separation of powers. This was the subject of protest to the Riigikogu's board. My question is this: has this protest been reviewed and what is the position of the Riigikogu Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U118	Thank you. Indeed, protest has arrived last night at 8:00 p.m., and I have read it. The Bureau has not discussed this, so I cannot say anything on behalf of the Bureau. Neither the Chairman of the Management Board nor any member of the Management Board has proposed that the Bureau be convened exceptionally, so that we will discuss it at the next meeting or at a later meeting when further preparation is needed to discuss this protest. I'm sure the board will examine this protest and give an answer. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U119	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. You said that we have been presented with documents on what the committees have decided. I have the decision of the President of the Republic and the bill, there is no record of what the committees have done. How, then, can we discuss this if we do not know what we are discussing?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U120	I didn't understand the question. How can we not know what we are discussing? The agenda item is precisely fixed, which we are discussing. As far as the views of the committees are concerned, they are normally available, both of which are in the past... [[M. Lauri says something about the hall.]] Yes, they are. They've been announced earlier. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed this issue, as I understand it, also yesterday, but its position and proposal were voted on earlier. It was the same with the Committee on Monetary Affairs. So both committees have drawn up their position and proposed the adoption of the law unchanged. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U121	Thank you. If we're talking about protocol, there should definitely be a protocol. How can the Commission's rapporteur tell us what happened in the Commission if he does not have everything exactly fixed in the minutes? Then we'll have a question about why you come here with the protocols, talking to your memory, and that's it. In fact, Lauri Läänemets protested and wished that the questions he raised and the answers he received would be in the minutes. It would be really nice to read them here today, but they're still beyond our reach. The fact that sometimes the Bureau has not had a precise protocol or protocol signature, that is one thing. But when we start discussing the subject in the Chamber, the protocol still needs to be finalised.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U122	I say once again to all members of the Riigikogu that the Home and Rules of Procedure Act does not regulate the extent to which and exactly how protocols must be drawn up, nor does it regulate whether the rapporteur from the Commission speaks from the head or literally reads the text written in the minutes. Members of the Riigikogu have different opinions. For example, I recall Jürgen Ligi, who said that we do not need such a literal reading of the dry protocol, but we need an overview of the substance of the debate. So the expectations of the members of the Riigikogu are different and the understanding of the protocol is different. However, I say once again that the minutes of the various committees are drawn up differently, the discussions on the agenda are different, and the law on the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure does not specify exactly the form in which the minutes must be drawn up and how the debate is to take place. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U123	Thank you, good manager. You are right that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs made this decision already on 20 February, and if that had been the case, we would not protest. However, yesterday and the day before yesterday, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs reopened this debate and yesterday, despite opposition protests, changed its decision. He did not change the so-called final outcome of the decision, but he added to the arguments of the majority vote such statements as have never been heard from the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. And more perversely, they were presented to us by a lawyer representing the government, who drafted the principle of separation of powers, hired by the Ministry of Finance, in total disregard of the views of the members of the Riigikogu, i.e. the positions agreed on 20 February, as if nothing were paid and the right positions came from the attorney of the Ministry of Finance. This is what has been protested against. The problem is in a session where this decision has been amended and the minutes of which have not yet been made available, and it is therefore deeply questionable whether this point can be discussed at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U124	Thank you. As you yourself said, the conclusions did not change for the Commission, and the fact that the Commission discusses one or another on several occasions is not at all incompatible with the rules of procedure and home affairs. Even after the debate and final vote in the large Chamber, the Commission can discuss these issues further, and this is not prohibited at all. And the fact that proposals by experts or representatives of different target groups or government representatives are drafted as proposals by the Commission, if the majority of the Commission supports it, is a normal practice. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Am I right to understand that the protest that some members of the Riigikogu have made in connection with the committee meeting has reached you and you have not discussed it? Does it not seem to you that, in order to conduct a substantive debate in this Chamber and not only a debate, but also a vote, it is extremely important to know whether or not any rules of procedure have been violated and that the Bureau should have taken a position by the time the draft arrives in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U126	Thank you. It is true that this has not been discussed by the Bureau. No member of the board has proposed to convene the Riigikogu Board in an extraordinary way to discuss this protest. And I do not think there is any need for this, because this protest concerned the format and protocol of the Commission's debate. Neither of them will stand in the way of the debate on this item in the big Chamber today. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U127	Thank you. Good President! I'm a bit of an outsider here because I haven't been in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs myself. But when I listen to these stories, I realize that there is some kind of real protocol and some kind of "counterfeiting protocol" and that you have been sent a protest against this counterfeiting. But I don't have any of these documents in my hands, no real, no fake protocol, no protest. Can someone bring at least one of these things into this hall so we can read what we're discussing here and what's happened? Or should a crime report document on counterfeiting be submitted? Now, give me some good directions!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U128	Thank you. No, there's no need for that. This is not the practice we have for us to bring the Commission's minutes to this large hall for all items on the agenda in case there are any questions. There is no such practice and the law does not require it. However, it is possible to require these documents from the committee by speaking to the chairman of the committee or by asking the Commission's officials. All the material that exists is certainly available. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U129	Thank you. Since this protest has been made last night and very clearly linked to the re-negotiation of the pension fund law, I have a proposal that the President take a break, that the board be called together and that you discuss this protest. Then you would make the Bureau's decision known to us, and we could go on with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U130	No, thank you! I do not see any need to stop all the work in the big hall now and to undertake a thorough analysis of this protest. This is not what we have done in previous times when protests have arrived. The Governing Board shall discuss and process this in the normal manner. And as I said, according to the law, this does not prevent us from moving forward with the agenda in the big hall. Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U131	I asked the following question: will the participant in the work of the Commission speak about his impressions or will he open a document drawn up in administrative law, the content of the signed minutes? I have so far realised that the Commission representative is still presenting the document rather than sharing the impressions. However, as long as the document is not signed, the words of the representative of the Commission are merely his impressions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U132	This is where I'm gonna have to specify you. It is certainly good practice that the committee rapporteur does not limit himself to the presentation of the minutes, but also opens up the content of the discussion held in the committee and answers the questions of the members of the Riigikogu, trying not to express their personal impressions, but to convey the content of the debate that has been held in the committee. So I suppose today both committee rapporteurs are also talking about what is written in the minutes and the substantive discussion and answer questions from members of the Riigikogu. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U133	Thank you. Good Helir-Valdor Seeder! I understand that in fact, in your heart, you almost want to take this board break, but the arguments are kind of low. I'll give you one more. As long as you and the Bureau are discussing this protest, I will go to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and bring all the documents that are available and available to everyone in this Chamber, both the actual protocol and the forged protocol. In that case, why don't we take a half-hour break?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U134	Thank you. No, I'm fine. I hope there is no false protocol as such. I'm really afraid you're gonna keep looking for it and you're not gonna make it back to the big hall in time for the vote. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U135	Thank you. I believe that you actually understand that this is not a matter of spite, but of a point where there is a constitutional dispute and where the arguments put forward by the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs matter. In the event of a potential legal dispute, every word that the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs said or did not say has a very strong weight. And, of course, I think you will also agree when I say that it is not possible to vote in on what I said or didn't say when my real message was something else. So, in any case, there are very serious doubts that procedural rules have been violated. Members of the Riigikogu must be convinced that we are not going to have a constitutional dispute in violation of the Constitution. At least to me, as a member of the Constitutional Committee, the Board of the Riigikogu seems to be the right body to discuss this protest. I, too, propose that you please take the chairman's break. And if you say that you have not even discussed this protest, at least discuss this protest so that the procedure of the bill is even a little correct, or at least it seems correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U136	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We're starting to repeat ourselves here. Once again, the Board of the Riigikogu will certainly discuss protests. The Board of the Riigikogu discusses all the letters and addresses that come to it. But we're doing this on a regular basis, not on an extraordinary basis. And as far as the possible forgeries referred to here are concerned, neither the Board of the Riigikogu is an investigative body. In such cases, it is also possible to address other bodies, and this has also been done during its term of office in connection with the drafting of the minutes of the various committees. But the board of the Riigikogu doesn't deal with it. So if anyone has any complaints that something is being fraudulently and consciously forged somewhere, there is not so much competence here under the leadership of the Riigikogu that we can find out for ourselves. Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U137	Thank you, good manager. I'm gonna go back in history a little bit. It must have been 2015, when we discussed the law on the home and working procedures of the Riigikogu in this large hall, mainly from the perspective of how to organise the work of committees. We have come to the conclusion that the document reflecting the work of the committee will be the minutes of the committee sitting, which will be thorough and reflect the views of the members of the Riigikogu that they have expressed at the meetings of the committee. Since the amendment of this law, there has been no such, say, dispute or demand, but today we have come to the point where it has become clear that the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs does not reflect the arguments and views of the Members of the Commission, not to mention that the protocol has been signed. In my opinion, this is really a sufficient reason for you and the Bureau to discuss, for once, how serious this issue is and whether such behaviour is still legitimate or ethical.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U138	Thank you. You're right. In addition to the provisions of the Home and Working Procedures Act, it has been agreed at the level of the Board of Elders and Management that the minutes must be as comprehensive as possible. However, the protocols of the committees are still very different in terms of depth in practice. However, you are not right about this as if there had never been a problem with it before. Yesterday, at the Bureau meeting, we discussed quite a bit of the subject of the minutes, how to record and how the various committees will report. It's still up. There have also been repeated opinions and protests on the minutes of the various committees, and some of them have even reached the prosecutor's office with some protests about the minutes of the committees. So this is a subject that I believe must be dealt with, first and foremost, by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs itself, but also by all the political groups and the large hall, how to change the rules of home and work so that we can all understand it in the same way, and whether the committees in the various fields of activity must actually report in a uniform manner? This is, of course, an issue of its own, but it needs a debate. But today, the practice is different, and the law on home and working arrangements does not regulate it until the end. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we're still repeating each other. Perhaps it is more rational to go ahead with the agenda, though? Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U139	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I am referring to the fact that the current protocols have been drawn up in such a way that everything that caused the Commission's problems is how they tried to put words in our mouths, how they were hustled, how they hid who paid for the lawyer, all these answers are essentially excluded from the protocol. It can be concluded that, at the request of the head of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the large assembly here is not encouraged to show the progress of the debate in the Commission, which could ultimately have a significant impact on the vote. And I think I have a doubt that the Commission's waitress might feel the same way, and if she doesn't even think so, she may not remember the entire content of the sitting. In this sense, I think it is very important that this protocol is in place and in order. I would also stress that, for example, my question and the long and very important answer given to it cannot be read from the current protocol. I have a question for you: if, on the same subject that I asked about in the Commission and answered, a question is asked in this Chamber to the representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and he does not answer it correctly or does not answer it at all, am I entitled to supplement him from this point of view?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U140	Thank you. Let's not assume, let's hear the Commission's waitress. You will certainly be able to supplement what has been said; all members of the Riigikogu will be able to speak during the debate today; you will be able to give your opinion within 5 + 3 minutes, i.e. within eight minutes. If you find that any of your thoughts have not been reflected, you can say it peacefully to the great hall. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U141	Thank you very much. Here we were talking about the protocols and the fact that there is a very big debate about how they should be drawn up. They have been drawn up in different ways in different committees and it has not been possible to fix what must be in them or how comprehensive they must be. I don't think the problem is that complicated. The protocols must certainly contain two things: firstly, they must reflect the reality of the situation; and secondly, if anyone has any differences of opinion and wishes to mention them in writing, they must certainly be reflected. I ask what the Bureau's position is on this matter, or if it is not, what is your position as a member of the Bureau. Should there be a difference of opinion in the minutes or should it not be?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U142	It is not regulated by the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, but if one or the other member of the Commission wishes to add a different opinion, he will always have that opportunity. He's gonna make it himself and put it on the record, that's the way it's gonna go. But once again, the Home and Working Procedures Act does not require the drafting of a verbatim report in committees. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U143	Thank you, Mr President. I have a specific proposal for you. In view of all the confusion we have here, given that we do not have the minutes of yesterday's meeting of the Constitutional Committee in the information system, do you agree that as the chair of the sitting you will say and take the position that you have already expressed here once, that since the Constitutional Committee formed its position on 20 February and, consequently, the Riigikogu Bureau has put this item on the agenda for us now, the large Chamber of Riigikogu is based only on the protocol of 20 February, on what is written there, and we are taking decisions on the ground that, after all, the opinion of the coalition is still that the draft must be adopted again unchanged and that we are having a substantive debate only on the premises of the 20 February and of the Constitutional Committee sitting? If you say so, we will be able to move forward. Otherwise, indeed, since we do not yet have a protocol in the system for dealing with drafts, we cannot actually deal with this point now because of the lack of basic material.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U144	We have sufficient basic material and the committee rapporteur will certainly also reflect the discussions that have taken place since the large hall's agenda has been presented to the members of the Riigikogu. So it has been here before that the agenda will be approved, that the Bureau will disband it to the members of the Riigikogu and that the meeting of the committee will take place only after that. It's happened many times, it's not a precedent. But, of course, all the protocols, both those drawn up before the Bureau approved the agenda and those drawn up after that, are important. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U145	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, I also have a proposal: please ask about what happened in the Commission when the Commission rapporteur is on the board. It seems to me, too, that this debate will no longer be about the procedures of the large hall, but will spread out. So let me make another suggestion: let's finish the track and get to work!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U146	Thank you. That's a very constructive suggestion. Andres Sutt, I hope you have the same constructive suggestion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U147	I'm sure it is. After all, we are only making constructive suggestions here. I think Hanno Pevkur had a very constructive proposal. We are having a very important debate on whether or not the law adopted complies with the Constitution. The Committee on Finance has given its opinion, the minutes are in place. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has discussed the matter on several occasions, and there is no last protocol. And now there is a very sensible proposal: why shouldn't this protocol be drafted calmly, why shouldn't the Bureau process this protest, and why shouldn't we have the same vote in the Riigikogu Chamber next week?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U148	But because it's planned for this week. All people, members of the Riigikogu are ready for this and the committee waitress gives us a thorough overview of what happened in the committee. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U149	Thank you, President-in-Office. I've had such a serious procedural problem listening to this discussion here. You're saying yesterday this protest came to your nightstand, you couldn't read it, or at least you couldn't discuss it on the board. But one day you'll discuss it. And then, if you discuss and find suddenly, you also find that the protest was entirely justified and should have been satisfied, what do we do? By this time we have sent a document to the Supreme Court from this Riigikogu Hall, which we would like to withdraw because you have changed your mind and understood, your eyes have opened and you have understood what injustice has occurred in the Constitutional Committee. So what do we do? Would it still not be wise to review the protest before taking the next step, not the other way around?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U150	Valdo, I will make one clarification for the protocol: I have read this protest, however. But the Commission is working according to its plans, according to the rhythm of work, as we have good practice and practice, that once the protocol is drawn up, it will be sent to the parties to the coordination circle, then the clarifications and additions will be introduced, and at some point the chairman of the committee will sign it. This has been the case in other committees, and it is also the case in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. When this protocol is finished, I don't know. However, I can say that the Bureau will certainly be discussing this protest, but the outcome of this protest debate will not, to the slightest extent, prevent this issue from being discussed in the large Chamber today, because both times the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stuck to its main proposal to adopt the law unchanged. The conclusion and the proposal for a large Chamber have always been the same as a result of all these discussions, and the various arguments that have been put forward there probably also sound in the Chamber today, and these various arguments can in fact be discussed by the Commission even after the adoption of this law. If the law were to come to the Supreme Court, it is likely that both the Finance Committee and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will have to discuss this issue several more times and highlight different arguments. So today's debate does not stand in the way of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, The last three procedural questions, when they relate to the same subject, and I will no longer accept procedural questions on this issue, because we are already repeating each other and there is nothing new on these issues. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U151	Thank you, Honourable President. What really amazes me is that we are talking about a bill that the President has already sent back and that there is a clear knowledge that it can go to the Supreme Court. When the Committee on Constitutional Affairs deals with matters as described in this Chamber today, I have an urgent request for you: the minimum you can do is that you take the chairman's break now and consult your colleagues, your members of the Bureau, whether the position you have said will remain that way in the Bureau, or whether you will find together that something must be done differently. I am simply relying on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to carry out the procedures in an exemplary manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U152	There is certainly a need to work with full responsibility and depth, which concerns all the committees. However, I think that, yes, my colleagues in the Bureau agree with me, none of them has proposed to convene the lead in an extraordinary way, so we will proceed with the agenda calmly. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U153	Thank you. For some reason, it seems to me that you, as the head of the Riigikogu, wish to cross the members of the Riigikogu today. It has always been the case that if the minutes come into the Chamber while one or the other drafts are being discussed, the details are already inside. It doesn't work out that the details will be taken to the record in a few months. They are still taken in immediately, especially if someone in the Riigikogu has requested it, after the minutes have been distributed to the members of the committee. I do not see in any way here the possibility that we are going to discuss this issue here today without a protocol, which is not in the form that was the subject of the debate in the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U154	Thank you. In theory, you are right, and it would be perfect if the next day the protocols that come from the committees had been signed. The internship is, unfortunately, different. As I said, even the Bureau has had to turn to some committee chairmen, because many months have not been signed, cannot be properly disclosed and sent out. But this has not prevented the general work of the Riigikogu. So I call on all the chairmen of the Commission to act with a sense of responsibility and very quickly and operationally. But I repeat, this does not prevent the work of the big hall and progress on our agenda. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U155	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I have been listening for a long time to these emotional speeches, which should actually be directed to the chairman of the committee and not put forward in the context of procedural matters. The fact is that our work is regulated by the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. When there have been comments here that protests are being made and that something has been done wrong, I have noticed such a systemic fact that no one is referring to any norm on the basis of which we have acted in any way wrong. I believe that the whole sequence of questions that just hit you is, in fact, unfounded. It would be correct to refer to a norm that has been violated, and then the issue could also be resolved and protests dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U156	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, No, we don't have a free microphone here, there's no need to answer. Ladies and gentlemen, we have now begun to live out ourselves or, rather, to enter a new point. I have a suggestion that we go to today's agenda. But before that, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 18.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U157	The first item is the re-negotiation of the Act on funded pensions not announced by the President of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws (108 UA). Before we go to this item on the agenda, I will briefly present the procedure for this procedure. First of all, Siim Kisler, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has a presentation for up to 20 minutes; the President may, in agreement with the rapporteur, extend this period. The presentation by Mr Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, will then be for up to 20 minutes, and the President may again extend this period in agreement with the rapporteur. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to each of the rapporteurs. All members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups can participate in the negotiations. The call length is 5 + 3 minutes. There will also be a final vote. It is necessary to obtain a majority of votes in favour of re-accepting the law. So let's go to the first item on the agenda. Renegotiation of the Act on funded pensions not declared by the President of the Republic and related amendments to other laws (108 UA). I would like to ask Siim Kisler, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U158	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U159	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Constitutional Commission discussed the Act on funded pensions not announced by the President of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws, i.e. the reform of compulsory funded pension, at its three meetings: 20 February, 9 March and 10 March. Representatives of the President of the Republic were invited to the meeting of the Commission on 20 February: the Director of the Office Tiit Riisalo, the Deputy Head of the Office's Internal Department, Mall Gramberg, and the lawyer Madis Päts. The latter presented the President's decision to the Commission. Madis Päts said that the decision of the President of the Republic consists of seven points, six of them are substantive points and one is a point containing a technical comment. Madis Päts said that the first substantive point was an introductory point. § 28 (2) of the Constitution states that the state must also ensure decent retirement, and § 14 indicates that it is the duty of the state to provide citizens with an old-age pension. According to the President, the current pension system as a whole ensures the fulfilment of the State's obligations under § 14 and § 28 (2) of the Constitution. According to the President, the loss of compulsory funded pension disproportionately affects fundamental rights protected by § 28 and 32 of the Constitution. Madis Päts pointed out that the second aspect on which the President focused in his decision was the question of whether the right to take out the assets accumulated there by making compulsory retirement provision optional was compatible with the Constitution. According to the President, the amendment to the Act amends retroactively the purpose of the social tax, which leads to unequal treatment and thus to a contradiction with §§ 10 and 28 of the Constitution. In the view of the President, there is no legitimate justification for such unequal taxation and, for the same reasons, it is also contrary to the Constitution to change the special purpose of social tax. The third aspect on which Madis Päts focused concerns a situation that may arise if, after the law has entered into force, people start to leave the pension funds on a massive scale. The President considers that this will significantly worsen the situation of those who remain in the funded pension system. The President has seen a contradiction with § 32 of the Constitution, which protects property rights, and with the principle of legal certainty and legitimate expectations resulting from the democratic rule of law, insofar as the state is undermining the prospects of retirement pensions for those who remain in a compulsory funded pension system. Madis Päts said that the fourth aspect on which the President focused concerned the right to cancel insurance contracts. According to the President, the right to terminate insurance contracts disproportionately affects both the legitimate expectations of policyholders and the freedom of business of insurers, in conjunction with the principle of constitutional legal certainty. Madis Päts said that the fifth aspect on which the President focused was that the withdrawal and free use of funds collected from the mandatory pension fund would significantly reduce the ability of the pension system to meet the objectives set for it. The President has seen a disproportionate barrage of the fundamental right protected by § 28 (2) of the Constitution in conjunction with § 10. The members of the Commission asked questions about which I would like to mention some in this report. The members of the Commission wished to have an explanation as to how § 28 of the Constitution relates to the pension system, as the State complies with this provision through income support. The Constitution does not say that the state must support citizens with a pension. Madis Päts replied that, when speaking of § 28 (2) of the Constitution in the narrow sense, he considered that there was still an old-age pension system. Members of the Commission were interested in the deterioration of the situation of those remaining in the second pension pillar should the new law enter into force. Madis Päts replied that when a significant number of people leave the second pension pillar, the value of their pension shares is likely to be significantly lower than people expected at the moment they joined the scheme. Following the debate, the Commission took the following decisions: Firstly, to appoint a rapporteur here to be the speaker, this was a consensual decision of the Commission, and, secondly, to support the adoption of the law on funded pensions and the related amendment of other laws in an unchanged form, by 5 members of the Commission and 4 against, and there were no abstentions. The debate on the subject continued at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 9 March. Paul Keres, who represented the Ministry of Finance as the initiator of the draft law, was invited to the meeting of the Commission on this occasion. Mr Keres argued that the law that was not declared was constitutional. According to Mr Kerese, the reform does not conflict with § 28 (2) of the Constitution, since the State may grant aid in any form in the event of old age. It does not necessarily have to be a pension; it may also be, for example, a social benefit or the first pillar of a pension. According to Mr Kerese, the minimum requirements referred to in § 28 (2) of the Constitution have been met by the first pillar of the pension. The violation of the fundamental right to equality arising from § 12 of the Constitution has been raised by the President in the view of the President that it is unconstitutional if the money collected by collectors in the second pension pillar is paid out to people, but the money collected by collectors in the first pension pillar is not paid out. In the view of Mr Keres, this argument is not justified since, unlike those who collect in the second pension pillar, those who collect in the first pension pillar do not collect money themselves. The money that people have collected in the second pension pillar is already their money, which is why it is possible to pay out what they collect in the second pension pillar. Paul Keres said that the President has pointed out the risk that if a large number of persons have the opportunity to withdraw money from the second pension pillar, i.e. to liquidate their shares in the second pension pillar, the fund manager may start selling fund assets under such unreasonable conditions that this would lead to a decrease in the value of the units remaining in the second pension pillar. Paul Keres pointed out that there is a barricade in itself, but the barricade is not yet a violation. The negative impact in this context lies in the creation of another risk in addition to the existing market risks. The intensity of the risk depends on how the pension reform materialises and how many people start to withdraw money from the second pillar of the pension. However, these risks are hypothetical and already well grounded under the current law. Mr Keres noted the president's complaint to the violation of freedom of business. Mr Keres considered that interference with the freedom to conduct a business was less intensive and, on the other hand, there were two important reasons for this intervention according to the draft. The first recital is the need to reform the existing, widely criticised pension insurance system. Secondly, the aim is to ensure equal treatment for all those who collect in the second pillar. The members of the Commission asked whether the fundamental right to equality was compatible with the fact that some people, who have not collected assets in the second pillar of the pension, could not use the first pillar of the pension by 4%, but others who have been able to transfer 4% of the first pillar of the pension to their second pillar of the pension, could withdraw money at the expense of the first pillar of the pension. Paul Keres said that his argument was that those persons who have not collected assets in the second pillar were not in a legally comparable situation to those who collected assets in the second pillar. As the time for the sitting was up, the Commission decided to continue the debate at its meeting on 10 March. Paul Keres was also present as a guest at the meeting on 10 March. The members of the Commission asked questions to Paul Keres. For example, the members of the Commission asked whether the mandatory funded pension unit was the total assets of the unit-holder or whether they could be separated. Paul Keres replied that it was a complete asset owned by a unit. Pension units are subject to a fundamental right of ownership and, consequently, this right can also be limited, but the limits must be proportionate. In the President's decision on the existence of constitutional arguments, Mr Keres replied that the president's position contained arguments in contradiction with the Constitution, but they were embedded in another text. Some points are of a political nature as a whole. The distinction he says is simple. The political arguments are those relating to expediency, sustainability and suitability for our society, and these matters are the property of the legislator in our regime. Paul Keres has tried to help the Commission find answers to the arguments of illegality. He said that only the Riigikogu has decision-making powers in social matters. The task of the Riigikogu is to ensure this minimum, but the way the Riigikogu does this cannot be prescribed by either the President or the Court. This position has been repeatedly expressed by the Supreme Court. Following questions to Mr Keres, the draft position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was discussed. On 5 March, the chairman of the committee sent a draft position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to the members of the committee, which sets out objections to the president's statement of reasons regarding the unconstitutional nature of the law. The arguments are set out in the Commission's minutes and, in the absence of time, I can only briefly reflect them in my report today. By the way, I would like to mention that this document is also available on the shelves here, so you can see for yourself what the President's position has been and what has been the counter-opinion. Point one. The right to assistance gives the person the subjective right to require the State to provide assistance. Through the second pension pillar, the state does not provide material assistance to the person in need, but creates the conditions for compulsory retirement. The Supreme Court has emphasised that in determining the type and extent of aid, the legislator has a wide margin of discretion within which to act. It must be concluded from the above that, provided that the post-reform pension system continues to guarantee a person a minimum of subsistence, the legislator will in principle be able to decide in what way and on the basis of which the pension collection, calculation and payout of persons' pensions will take place. The Constitution does not provide for a legal institute such as a pension. Aid to persons at risk of old age may also be expressed in any other measure other than a pension. For example, such a measure is income support under the Social Welfare Act. Income support provides minimum resources for people in need to meet their immediate needs. It can therefore be said that the legislator can also abolish the entire pension system as a whole without violating § 28 (2) of the Constitution, provided that it remains compensated by any other public measure guaranteeing persons at least a minimum standard of living in old age. In the reform of the pension system, the legislator exercises a country's social policy, with wide discretion in the implementation of which the legislator has wide discretion. Point two. As regards the President's claim that the law violates the principle of equal treatment, it can be said that the groups mentioned by the President are not comparable and therefore the reform does not infringe the principle of equal treatment. The legal consequence of the reform is not a retroactive change in the purpose of the social tax, as the President claims, but an extension of the right of disposal of pension units acquired from the person's own resources and additional resources of the State. Its aim is to create the conditions for real implementation of the reform in order to give individuals greater freedom of choice in the planning of the resources needed to manage their assets and in the future. There is no dispute that the extension of a person's rights would infringe the fundamental rights of a person. Therefore, there will be no question of a breach of fundamental rights in the case of pension collectors in the second pillar. Point three. As regards the so-called 'fundamental run', this is a minor barrier to ownership and is justified by the overall objective of the reform to give pension collectors a much greater margin of decision and freedom of choice in planning the resources needed to survive and thereby guaranteeing a higher pension for themselves in the future. The risk of a fund run may be equally likely to materialise in the current system. In so far as persons are able to change pension funds, so many people can also leave a large fund that the value of the units of persons who remain longer is reduced precisely because of a loss-making liquidation. The realisation of this risk can be considered rather minor. The Financial Supervision Authority has carried out stress tests on pension funds, the results of which showed that the level of liquidity of mandatory pension funds is generally either very good or good. The good level of liquidity has also been publicly confirmed by all Estonian pension fund managers. In addition, the reform provides for an amendment under which pension funds may borrow up to 25% of the value of the fund's assets instead of the current 10%, which balances the outcome of a possible fund run. In the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the right of pensioners to dispose of and use their own property in conjunction with other objectives of the pension reform is likely to be outweighed by the low level of interference with the right of pension fund survivors. Therefore, the interference is moderate, i.e. it does not prejudice the fundamental right at issue any longer than is necessary to achieve the objective of the law. Point four. The President's argument that the reform violates the freedom of business and legitimate expectations of insurers can be accepted, but the interference is certainly proportionate to the objective to be achieved. The purpose of the Riigikogu is to ensure equal treatment of all pension collectors in the second pillar. The second objective of the measure is to eliminate the unfairness of the current insurance pension system. Compared to the rights of the insurer and the policyholder, the rights of the insurer are much more extensive. In today's system, the policyholder, or pensioner, cannot enter into short-term contracts or withdraw a accrued pension exceeding a certain amount in order to make best use of it at its discretion. Such a system creates basically guaranteed income for an insurer for a long period of time. The policyholder has the option to cancel the contract only after a long period of notice and has the obligation to enter into a new insurance contract with another insurer. This situation is unreasonably inclined towards insurers, leaving the weaker side of the legal relationship, i.e. the policyholder's vulnerable position. In addition, the Pension Reform Act contains a number of provisions to mitigate the interference. For example, an insurer is granted the right to opt out of insurance premiums where the insurer considers it impractical to operate in the market under different conditions. In such a case, the State will assume the obligations. The articles shall be proportionate and in accordance with the limits of the Constitution. Insurance contracts will continue to be possible and there will continue to be no restrictions on the conditions of the free market, i.e. business, if the service provided by the insurer finds consumers on the free market. Points 5 and 6 of the President's Decision do not contain observations on the constitutional contradiction of the law, but contain the opinions of the Head of State on the manner in which it would be right, practical and sustainable to shape the state's social policy. This was a brief review of the Commission's position. Following a discussion on the draft position, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided on 10 March to support the adoption of the Pensions Act and the related amendment of other laws (mandatory funded pension reform) in an unchanged manner, on the basis of the views expressed in the draft sent out to the members of the Committee. There were 5 Commission members in favour of this position and 4 Commission members against and no abstentions. This was an overview of the three meetings of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U160	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Commission waitress, You were in the Chamber and you certainly heard this question hundreds of procedural questions, which were referred to the President of the sitting in connection with the protocols of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs from Monday, Tuesday and earlier. As we know, this week's protocols are not yet available to others here. You have also presented only the debate on positions. Did the members of the Commission get the floor there, for example, members of the opposition? And what were their opinions? Aren't you going to report it at all, or do you think it's of little importance?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U161	Thank you. The minutes of the first meeting of the committee are available to all members of the Riigikogu, as far as I know. With regard to the minutes of yesterday's and the day before, the issue is that these minutes are in themselves in existence, but the Members of the Commission have wished to make the texts contained in these minutes a more precise record of what they said. In my opinion, it is, in essence, already a request to present a verbatim. Very precise wording is desired, and it is said that I said the exact word, and I remember that the word was spoken, and we will listen to the recording and write it down accurately. Such protests have delayed the final approval of the protocols, and that is why the process has lingered. But, in answer to the question, of course, all the members of the Commission received the floor at the committee meeting and, as far as I know, used it repeatedly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U162	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U163	Thank you. Good Siim! You were, yes, present at these committee meetings and called Kerest a representative of the Ministry of Finance, as he himself called himself. The chairman of the committee appointed him as the representative of the working group without knowing which working group. And it was as if the members of the opposition had the opportunity to express their opinion, but we did not have it. We had a discussion that this opinion, drawn up by a lawyer, was written on Paul Kerese's computer, as can be seen from the metadata of the document, not on Paul Puustusmaa's computer, and that this opinion, which seeks to put words in the mouth of the members of the Riigikogu, is described as an annex to the protocol. Now, in this draft protocol, however, we see that it has been put into the opinion of the'members of the Commission', which it is not. I'm gonna ask you specifically. Do you think that the words of a lawyer put in the mouth of the members of the Riigikogu have in any way influenced the sovereignty of the Riigikogu or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U164	No one has put words in the mouth of the members of the Riigikogu. On 5 March, as I pointed out in my report, the chairman of the committee presented to the members of the committee the draft position of the committee, which I would not like to make an exact wording wrong. [[Browse papers.]] And indeed, it was written in the main by lawyer Paul Keres, who also confirmed it at the committee meeting and said that he had a legal aid agreement with the Ministry of Finance. He represented the Ministry of Finance at both meetings of the Commission. In comparison, just as the President was represented at the Constitutional Affairs Committee by lawyer Madis Päts, whom we heard and whom I outlined, the Ministry of Finance, or the representative of the government, was represented by a lawyer. Members of the Commission will always have a choice if they are brought forward with draft positions or draft decisions, they will be able to support them and they will not be able to support them. There really was a lot of debate at the Commission meeting that I could even say, 'Whether such a design can be discussed here in this form.' However, Members of the Commission will certainly have the opportunity to support texts prepared by different people. And this earlier debate, with some aspects of it being highlighted here, is relatively common, for example, in the course of the second reading of the law, for example, the government, or the initiator, or some ministry, for example, it is the Ministry of Finance or some other ministry, that it presents its proposals to the Commission to be taken into account by the members of the Commission in the draft. But it is not possible for representatives of the government to make these changes formally. They can only appeal to the Commission to submit them on their own behalf. Sometimes it takes place by consensus and sometimes by majority vote, and sometimes these proposals are not taken into account at all. In this case, the position presented becomes the Commission's position and the Commission's proposal. In this case, the same situation was the case with the government representative who proposed that it be the Commission's position, and the Commission approved this position by 5 votes to 4.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U165	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U166	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You said the drafts and positions are available in the hall. No, they're still not available. This was also the result of my procedural question, which I initially asked, that these views had not been available. As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I ask you this: is it constitutional, that the members of the government or their representatives are those who give responsibilities to members of the Riigikogu, or should it be the other way round?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U167	Thank you. First of all, I would like to make it clear: I said that the President's decision and the reasons for it are available in this Chamber. The text of the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is indeed available in the Commission's minutes, and so I said. The minutes of the committee will be available when it is approved, and this protocol will unfortunately not be available to the other members of the Riigikogu for the reason I have explained here. I would venture to say that some Members of the Commission are delaying its validation by requesting a verbatim, not a protocol. The protocol is the reflection of positions and the verbatim... I can then personally show you an e-mail where it is written that exact wording is required, i.e. the essence of the verbatim is required at least in parts of the places. And it's delayed the validation procedure. When it comes to your question, you put it in such a way that the government would give tasks. The government makes proposals, the members of the government constantly make proposals to the legislator. The same bill that we are discussing here has also been drafted by the government as a whole. Amendments to this draft law have also been drafted by the government as a whole, the explanatory memorandum has been drawn up by the government and these arguments have been prepared by the government. The Government proposes to the Riigikogu and the members of the Riigikogu have a choice to confirm, agree or disagree. We're all free to make that choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U168	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U169	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! At the time of the submission of the procedural questions, the President of the sitting said that it is entirely normal for the opinion of external experts or, in this case, of the law firm employed by the Government to be formalised as the Commission's position. The same pattern was repeated in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The problem is that the opinion of an external expert or lawyer does not, in substance, coincide with the discussions held in the Commission or with the views expressed in the Commission. The minutes of the Committee on Finance are there, and you can look at it from there. So I am asking you if you are not afraid that the Riigikogu is taking excessive legal risks in this way, given that judicial proceedings may be pending.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U170	Thank you. Well, the simple answer is, you're not scared. I would point out, however, that the vote is taking place in this Chamber. All members of the Riigikogu will be able to decide whether or not they support the adoption of the law in its unchanged form, regardless of what is stated in the minutes of the committees. I cannot appreciate what happened in the Committee on Monetary Affairs; it can be described in more detail by the representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. However, it is not right to argue that the draft position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is trying to change what happened earlier. No, the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs sent his draft, his proposal, and the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs were able to say that this is our position. I also specifically remember from this debate how I myself proposed that, if some Members of the Commission do not like the point of the position, the point of the position, there should be proposals, for example, that point 3 should not be liked and taken out, or that point 7 should be added. Such proposals did not sound during this debate. There was a vote on the position and a majority supported it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U171	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U172	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Commission waitress. My question was different, but in your previous answer to Mr Sõerdi's question, you pointed out very nicely here that the Riigikogu is taking decisions, and that the people who sit in this Chamber are taking decisions. At the same time, the people of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs know what was discussed, but others have to take decisions, as if they were in their guts and trusting in what is being said on this board. But I am obviously spoiled, belonging to a committee such as the Committee on Social Affairs, where two people with opinions are always involved in the discussions, and these are lawyers. I understand that at the first meeting of the Commission, you were present to give or explain the opinion of the Office of the President of the Republic. Why has there been only one person present at subsequent meetings who defends the position of the government or the position of the coalition? Why was no one else invited?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U173	First of all, with those who gave the opinion, three representatives from the Office of the President of the Republic were invited at the beginning, who explained the position of the President. The Commission was then invited to a meeting by a representative of the Government, the Ministry of Finance, who explained the position and objections of the so-called initiator. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance were also absent from the discussion of the President's representatives. Question: could it have been that both the initiator and the President's representative were present at all the meetings of the Commission? Yeah, I could've. It was an opportunity. But I do not see a problem here, because the decision was made by the members of the Commission and they were free, without limit, to ask questions both to the President's representative and to the representative of the Ministry of Finance. No one had any obstacles to ask as much as necessary. Now, as far as it is concerned, it is very good that you brought it to the fore, whether the other members of the Riigikogu know what was discussed in the committee. I have been thinking a little about this in a different context recently, but this is particularly with regard to the National Defence Committee, where we have essentially created a situation in which we select certain members of the committee who know more than other members of the Riigikogu, but yet we must vote in the same way and in a uniform manner in this Chamber. Everyone has an equal one vote on those who know more and those who know less. And there's nothing else to do here but trust the deeper knowledge of those who know more. All political groups are represented in the Committee on National Defence, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U174	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U175	Thank you. Good waitress! The lawyer in place of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and also your political friends, have mentioned in some way in a very profound way that everyone decides that the pension share is inheritable, because Siim Kallas 2001 said that this pension share is property. Explain what it really means to say. I imagine that, under certain conditions, the first pillar is also entirely bequeathable, while it begins and ends under certain conditions. In turn, the share of the second pillar is something that some people can receive as pensions, some people cannot be caught. Those who use it but die first. Some live at the expense of others. And as a matter of fact, men get worse contracts than women, because different mortality rates are not to be taken into account. Tell me what that deep thought means to this lawyer named after the Committee on Constitutional Affairs or, on the contrary, a lawyer named after the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U176	The Committee on Constitutional Affairs is still the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it has its own members and it makes its own decisions. And the decisions of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs are the result of the vote of the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. As regards whether the mandatory funded pension unit is a property, whether it is a property at all, this has indeed been confirmed by various professionals. But I also think that, for example, the fact that, in the past, we were obliged to provide a list of our assets in the declaration of economic interests, under the asset chapter, we were also obliged to present the size of our second pillar. Interestingly, we did not have to declare the first pillar there. It was clear from it that it was considered property. Why is that important? It is important in this context that whether it extends its ownership and the right to use and dispose of its property, whether it can be extended to limits and, if so, how much restrictions, and whether these restrictions can be lifted. That's the question. In the case of the first pillar, I cannot accept that it is property or that it is inheritable, unless it has been paid out and it has become property through it. But the pension share is already owned before that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U177	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U178	Thank you very much. I have not been able to read the minutes of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but I understand from what you have said and what is going on in this Chamber that, in principle, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has come up with new arguments put forward by a representative of the Ministry of Finance, who is a lawyer, and they have not been able to make arguments against them, because, as you say, a representative of the President was present in the committee, but we know that the representative of the President and the President are not defending any law or are not in favour of any law or against it is, in principle, mentioned here in the President's decision. So, if new arguments have been put forward, should the opinion of experts who do not, in principle, support this law not be heard in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U179	Thank you. The President shall state the reasons in his decision, and the President's representatives shall have three representatives, who shall have the opportunity to add their explanations to the President's statement of reasons. Similarly, representatives of the Ministry of Finance were able to make their arguments against these arguments. So both sides were accounted for. As regards the debate, the members of the Riigikogu can hold the debate. I admit that I would have liked to have had a more substantive debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on these arguments, not so much on the procedural way to take decisions and on the form in which the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs should have been expressed and recorded. Before these Commission meetings, I somehow assumed that there would be such a more substantive debate on the arguments, but it was relatively few, rather it was expressed as questions to both the representatives of the President and the representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. But we have a good opportunity to hold this debate in this large Chamber in the form of questions and answers as well as speeches. I would like to point out that all members of the Riigikogu will be able to speak here and present their views and arguments in favour and against before we vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U180	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U181	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! You said nicely that no one put words in their mouths to the members of the Riigikogu, but that the design was prepared by the principal lawyer. All right. If this draft was supported in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in exactly the way it was presented, it is actually surprising to me. As a non-lawyer, I may really read the Constitution and come to the conclusion that, uh, as long as we have a minimum of living for the elderly, and there is no more as a national court. At the same time, taking apart the commentary on the Constitution, it has been very nicely said about these sections of the Constitution, that it is still necessary to ensure a decent life, that the principles of human dignity and the social state are at the core of our fundamental order. In addition to meeting primary needs, a person must also play an active part in everyday life without shame and discrimination. It has also been pointed out that, for example, in the case of old age, the core of the fundamental right is to ensure a significantly better chance of living than the minimum subsistence. In my opinion, it is relatively clear that these arguments in the draft, when viewed in a simple way, do not become a criminal. That is why I am asking whether you, as voted in favour of the draft, agree with the arguments set out in the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U182	Yes, the simple answer is, of course, I agree. Otherwise, I would not have voted in favour of this position, or I would have made some amendments to it. I would have said, as I pointed out here earlier, that I want to change this particular point or add another point or some pro-argument or some counter-argument. But this, of course, does not mean that this position does not protect a decent life or human dignity or does not protect against discrimination. I stress that neither human dignity nor human dignity will diminish when this law is renegotiated and entered into force, and there will certainly be no increase in discrimination. You can probably tell me more precisely how many percent of compulsory funded pension, or second pillar payments, compared to first pillar payments, but we both probably agree that this figure is relatively marginal compared to the first pillar. The main burden remains on the first pillar even if this law does not enter into force. In both cases, the main load is on the first pillar. Moreover, if some people have very low pension payments, there may be different reasons for this, such as not having been in work for some reason or other, then we know that in this case, income support, which can also be paid in order for the person to be able to cope, will be helpful.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U183	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U184	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Your performance gives one hundred percent assurance as to the need for protocols to balance the material you report, not to mention how much time you devoted to the arguments of the representative of the Minister of Finance. And maybe the Commission also missed the opportunity to allow two parties to be present in the Commission at the same time and to argue their views so that the members of the Commission could get a better overview. Could you explain this 2+4 issue for a second? If I remember correctly, you, who voted in favour of this proposal, did not see the problem in it, but, with reference to the Constitution and to the general expectation, it has been said that, although 2% could be considered as a contribution by a person, 4% could by no means be regarded as his personal contribution in this system. Are you ready to explain what gives you this fortress?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U185	First of all, I will respond to this remark that the material to be communicated should be balanced. I tried to make a thorough point of the president's reasoning, and it took a little while to explain it, there was little time, 20 minutes to make such an in-depth report, and the reasons of the Ministry of Finance. Every member of the Riigikogu can compare them. I would like to stress once again that the reasons given by the President are there in writing in this Chamber, unlike the descriptions of the Ministry of Finance, which, I hope, will be available soon after all the members of the Commission have agreed to the wording that these minutes contain. As far as 2% and 4% are concerned, you said that 2% is a person's own contribution and 4% is not a personal contribution. In some ways, your question answers Jürgen Ligi's question, who asks why you talk about it in this way and whether a mandatory funded pension is a person's own asset or not a person's property. When it comes to human property, I do not think it matters very much whether or not he has received the units of the funded pension through this right of succession, as is known, and the heir may decide that his pension share will increase by that amount. Is it now to say that it was his own contribution or that it was not his own contribution? In this context, it is no longer important because this pension share belongs to a person, it is his property, just as real estate is his property or some other property is his property. It's already his. The first pillar of pension is in no way a person's own property; it is a significant difference. This is why it is also important to argue that it is no longer possible to make a precise distinction as to where, historically, there has been an inherited part, where there has historically been 2%, where there has been a return, where there has been a loss of administrative fees, etc. That is why this unit can be viewed as a whole and viewed as human property.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U186	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U187	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The President of the Republic has written in his decision that the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia does not stipulate how the state must shape the pension system, but the state has an important duty under § 28 (2) of the Constitution to ensure that all people can cope with retirement age. It points out, inter alia, that in order to ensure this obligation, the State has set up a pension system consisting of a state pension, a compulsory funded pension and a supplementary funded pension. Paul Kerese's opinion, which has been so much talked about, is not available here, but, as I understood from your report, he responds to this statement that pension is not a constitutional obligation, so if the state can guarantee the same livelihood in any other way, it is also acceptable. Perhaps, in my view, the same opinion, in essence, suggests that there is a contradiction with the Constitution if we lose one of the important pillars of the pension system and do not create anything in place. Perhaps in my opinion he admits that there is a contradiction with the Constitution...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U188	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U189	My question is this: do you understand this in the same way, and is there any other measure in the Fatherland to cover this hole, and what is it and does it mean an additional tax burden? With the land tax, we have once lost the tax on the land we live in, but then we start talking about real estate tax...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U190	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U191	... because the hole needs to be filled somehow.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U192	Thank you. I'll start at the back. You can talk about taxes, but as far as I know, the Party Isamaa doesn't support real estate tax in any form. As regards the President's position on § 28 (2) of the Constitution, this small constitution is a very good aid. I will read to you here what this much talked about and also much reflected in the President's position in § 28 (2) of the Constitution actually says. I read to you: 'Estonian citizens have the right to state aid in the event of old age, disability, survivors and deprivation. The types, scope and conditions and procedures of aid shall be laid down by law. Unless the law provides otherwise, this right is accorded to a foreign citizen and a stateless person who is present in Estonia as well as to an Estonian citizen. " It is not exactly said here that this should be done through a three - pillar pension system, etc. It says that an Estonian citizen has the right to state aid in the event of old age. Now, the law we are discussing here is about compulsory funded pensions. This also led to my question in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that, if the state obliges me to collect my own assets and then my own assets are paid out to me, could it be considered at all to be State aid within the meaning of this provision of the Constitution. It is not state aid, it is my own aid to me. Where exactly is this state aid? This is, in my opinion, a big question, and that is why we do not see here, and neither did the majority of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs see a contradiction with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U193	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U194	Thank you. § 4 of the Constitution states that the activities of the Riigikogu, the President of the Republic, the Government of the Republic and the courts are organised on the basis of separation and balance of powers. Now, replacing the actual discussion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which took place on 20 February, where the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs themselves expressed their views on the content and arguments, as you yourself said, with the arguments of the representative of the government, all these four cases were joined by the Riigikogu and the government. In other words, the Riigikogu was transformed into a rubber stamp of the government. If you have already achieved the result you wanted in the debate on 20 February, why was it necessary to break the Constitution procedurally, and why was it necessary to blur so much with this whole issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U195	I'll start from the back again. Good Javier! If you make such claims that the Constitution has been procedurally violated or you refer to wrestling, there should also be some explanation or justification. These cannot be such empty words; they should also have content. I didn't see the Constitutional Committee wrestling. But when you saw it, you should very specifically mention who did it and where, rather than throwing the vague accusations into the air, because the rest of the Riigikogu members who were not present at the committee meeting and other people may get the wrong impression. The same can be said about the emergence of procedural contradictions with the Constitution, which should be described in more detail by some, rather than simply saying that this was the case and that it was the case. As regards the principle of separation of powers, as I described earlier, the whole of this law, its text, its amendments, or the whole new text, have been drafted by the government and the legislator has taken the view that it supports this text. Can you put it like you said here that two became one? I wouldn't agree with that. I would also disagree if today's vote were to go in such a way that we would support the President's views and agree with the reasons given by the President. In this case, too, I would in no way agree with the argument that the two became one of § 4 of the Constitution has no longer been fulfilled and the President and the Riigikogu have become one of them. No, they haven't become one. On one side there is the President's position and on the other side there is the government's position, and as our legislator, we will decide which position we support. By doing so, there has been no violation of the principle of separation of powers and of balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U196	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U197	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I will continue with the question of Riina Sikkut and Mart Võrguship in relation to § 28 of the Constitution, that what aid the state has promised to its citizens or, rather, how much this aid could be, because I think the real question is not abstract freedom, but the real question is the size of the pension. Now, if I get this right, both the explanation you referred to by the attorney of the Ministry of Finance and the answer you gave here say that we are still talking about the pension system as a whole. And the question is whether we are putting something else in place of this voluntary nature to make this aid comparable, or whether we agree that a sufficient amount of aid is a living-off, i.e. today, this logic would be sufficient if the pension was 215 euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U198	Thank you. First of all, as I said before, I do not agree with the view that the second pillar of the pension is state aid. These are human resources, I don't see this part of state aid here. State aid is the first pillar, indeed, the state pays people out of it. In the case of the second pillar, man himself has collected these resources. I think it is a very narrow interpretation to say that this is now state aid and we are satisfied with it. I think that in a theoretical situation where a person is paid only from the second pillar, he could probably say that he has not received aid from the state and that he still wants help from the state, as provided for by the Constitution. Therefore, in my view, the difference in aid is not comparable to the second pillar of the pension, i.e. the compulsory funded pension, nor to the third pillar. In this sense, they cannot all be combined and all of them cannot be called State aid. Is the pension system complete? There are different components of the pension system, different pillars, as we call them, and part of this system is voluntary today, some have been voluntary for some participants and some have been mandatory. So the situation is very different. If we make another part of this comprehensive system more voluntary, I think that the integrity of the system, as such, will not disappear. The pension system is still a pension system and it will not disappear with the bill we are discussing here today. Even if it comes into force, our pension system will not go away.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U199	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U200	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I attended the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 20 February as an alternate member of Taavi Rõivas. Maybe that's what your committee's rules of procedure are, but I got a little weird, and that's why I'm asking. There was a very nice debate, but then at one point the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Puustusmaa, announced that there is no point in having a debate here with Kaja Kallas, we will not find a common language anyway, we better put this law to the vote. My question is this: does the Committee on Constitutional Affairs work like this, that when things get too complicated and things are no longer able to answer questions and continue the debate, they simply run over the tank and put things to the vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U201	I am very sorry if you had such an impression of the Commission's work in the process of replacing it. In my opinion, we have had quite free discussions. Speaking may not always have been so disciplined, but I think it can be said about the representatives of different parties. There is no way this line goes along the coalition or opposition line. I did not feel that the committee chairman's proposal was in any way offensive or forbidding. And that is something I sincerely believe that other Members of the Commission may also confirm that no one has been deprived of the opportunity to express their views and that no one has been deprived of the opportunity to ask questions. We even gave Kaja Kallas the opportunity to supplement the minutes of this very sitting with his written position, although this position was not read literally in the course of the sitting. It could be said in the same way that why it did not sound like this in the Commission, but in my opinion, one hundred percent was acceptable to all parties that Kaja Kallas added his written opinion to the minutes. I'm sorry if you got that impression, but I didn't feel any ban on any further discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U202	Good Andres! I'll answer your question. [[Laughing.]] I must commend the man behind my back. We're going to quote a little bit, Siim, you, and we're going to take advantage of you, even though you're not really guilty of this situation. You were the Minister of Finance at the time, and I would recommend that everyone read the debate on this draft in this Chamber in 2001. I'm not saying the opposite at all in a bad way. When this law was made, I will say it completely sincerely, it was a very good thing. Nordic pension funds were looked at, with a productivity of around 6%, which was not less than 6% in any year. And it was also stressed here that you will certainly receive at least 6%. And even if productivity had been like this, I do not think we would be discussing anything here today. Sometimes you might want to do better, but it turns out the way it used to. That's what the mayor of Moscow once said. It must be much harder for the President to discuss this bill because he was one of the working group members. And sincerely: before we discussed with our colleagues that perhaps there must also be a change in the law. If the next time there's a minister sitting on this spot that is directly related to a particular bill, someone who says it's my child, it's gonna be very difficult for him to make a decision. Nobody wants to give up what they've done, everyone believes it's the best. And at that time, the law was certainly made with the best of knowledge at that time. The situation has just changed for today. We see what can happen in a couple of weeks if such a shakiness arises in the economy and people are scared.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U203	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U204	Good President! Good colleague! A large part of the discussion on the second pillar has focused on whether it is state or private property. I agree with you that this is private property. However, since the beginning of the fund's creation, this item has had a very clear purpose. If we change our purpose now, doesn't that seem to you to be against the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U205	Thank you. If we changed it without amending the law, it would be against the law. However, since the proposal is to amend the law and then to amend the purpose in accordance with the law, this operation is certainly in line with the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U206	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U207	Thank you. In the interests of the verbatim report, I say that it was indeed in the debate that the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs closed the debate, saying that we are not convinced of each other anyway and that we better vote on all the arguments that have already sounded, and there is no point in having this debate any more. This position, which I presented in the Commission, was written in writing in the minutes, with a more detailed unfolding of it. I agree with you on that. In my opinion, it is not wrong to listen to the opinions of experts and various parties, even a representative of the government, who comes and presents his views. But that should have been done before we decided. That's one. And secondly, I was disturbed by the fact that the position of the government representative himself said that the Ministry of Finance paid for him was titled the position of the Constitutional Commission. This should not be considered to be the Commission's position if these views have not actually been presented at the Commission's meeting. After all, you admit that these views did not sound from the mouth of the members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U208	Thank you. The Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has already submitted a draft draft in writing before the last two sittings were held and has sent it to all the members of the committee. Everyone got to know it in good time. And indeed, as the representative of the government said, he has, to a large extent, written down these views. The Commission had the opportunity to support these views and to take a decision. To be very precise, I will review the wording once again: 'To support adoption in its unchanged form, based on the views expressed in the draft sent to the members of the Commission. ' This is the wording that was used in this decision, although it was also discussed in the Commission how to formulate it. In any case, that is now the correct wording. Indeed, the position of the government representative was supported, the position of the President was not supported, but the decision taken is the decision of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This is true, indeed, as a result of the votes of the Members of the Commission, by a majority, but the decision of the Commission, which was born as a result of the votes of the Members, and in the very wording that I have read to you here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U209	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U210	Thank you, good vice chairman. Waitress! My ear was very sharply touched by the impression that the guarantee of a minimum living requirement under the Constitution would be sufficient to say that the state had fulfilled its obligation to a person. Riina Sikkut quoted here a commentary on the Constitution, including human dignity. My question is this: should not the entire pension system and all the measures of the state support a person's livelihood in the future, so that the country can pay the minimum part of what a person is missing in an ideal world? How do you think, in 2040, that there are 47 people of retirement age for a hundred people of working age, a total of 70 dependants with children, this country is standing up, and how can we guarantee human dignity to all those people who have not guaranteed their income for retirement?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U211	If you try to answer the question now, I agree with you. I think, in the same way, that the state should do everything in its power to ensure that people themselves collect resources so that they can cope. This means, for example, a small tax burden, a smaller redistribution, a normal right-wing thinking in society. I, too, strongly support the fact that a person collects resources for himself. However, as regards whether the minimum subsistence level guarantees human dignity, this is not directly a question of this draft law. I would like to stress once again that this bill does not lose the first pillar of the pension, but in this debate it has repeatedly been emphasised that pension as such does not exist in the Constitution. It can be furnished by the legislator in other ways. But now to this argument, whether the minimum subsistence is considered sufficient to ensure human dignity. I think you are a better expert on this than I am, but if you are convinced that the minimum standard of living does not guarantee human dignity, then you should urgently propose an increase in the minimum standard of living, otherwise you will be in breach of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U212	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U213	Thank you. Honourable waitress! When you answered Mr Raig's question, you said that if this system and purpose were changed by law, it would not be contrary to the law. Since I have not dealt with this law as thoroughly as you have, I ask: does this draft amend § 1 of the Social Tax Act, which provides for the collection of social tax in order to finance health insurance and the payment of pensions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U214	Thank you. I answered Katri Raig's question the way he asked. He asked if the law was being passed in violation of the law, and I replied that it would not be violated if the law was passed. As far as the Social Tax Act is concerned, I think it is more appropriate to address this issue to the representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. We did not go through specific provisions of the draft law in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in respect of which the President did not have any disputes and which the President did not refer to as unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U215	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U216	Honor the President of the sitting! Good waitress! I actually agree with the criticism of a good colleague, Mr Šmigun-Lähi. I too attended the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 20 February and, frankly, it was really very funny, to say the least, when the chairman of the committee simply announced that we were not going to open the debate here, that everyone had positions and that we were going to vote. But my question comes from this area, that the President has done his work as prescribed by the law, and in this law he has highlighted a number of contradictions with the Constitution. The coalition with its majority votes has, of course, whistled to the President's criticism. My question is this: are you still sticking today to the fact that the President has not understood the matter and is only dealing with politics in this matter, or are you prepared to at least admit among yourselves that, on certain issues or on certain points, at least indirectly, the President has a right and that there is, however, a contradiction with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U217	As far as the chairman of the committee is concerned, he may also be able to comment on these points in his speech. I would like to stress once again that I was not impressed by any malicious attitude in the chairing of the committee or by the fact that the Members of the Commission had no opportunity to speak. But it will probably be a comment to the chairman of the committee on the management of the committee's work for the future. There was no whistleblower to the views of either the President or anyone else at the committee meeting. Questions were discussed, questions asked. I agree that perhaps there could have been more debate. It is clearly stated in the Commission's position that, in certain respects, this law constitutes an infringement of the Constitution, but it is justified and does not lead to a contradiction with the Constitution. The Commission's majority position was not to accept the President's position.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U218	After all, today the question is whether a person wants to join the second pension pillar or not. The possibility of this bill is that you may be joined, but it is not an obligation, you may also have joined only the first and third pillars of voluntary retirement. That's the question. And the economic situation today is that, to be honest, if you look at the first and second pension pillars, it's only good to be in the first pension pillar. Tomorrow, when wages decrease and unemployment should also develop, social tax will be reduced and all circumstances can change. Today it is difficult to predict which option is one better and the other worse. In fact, we give the person the opportunity to make his own decision as to whether he prefers one, the other or the third. You can't take that, Riina, so there's always one option that's better and the other option is worse. Whenever you go to the store, you decide whether you buy a more expensive apple or a cheaper apple, whether you buy quality or not. Both things, cheap prices and quality often cannot be chosen.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U219	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U220	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U221	Thank you. I too come back to the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 20 February. In short, what happened was that the President of the Commission asked the representatives of the President's office to explain what the President's objections were to the case. The opposition ambassadors asked questions, you asked a few questions too. Grünthal protested that the President was even entitled to express his opinion on this law because he had taken part in the work of the committee that had ever developed this law. And that is actually the end of the debate. I don't remember, and I don't read it in any of the minutes that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided on 20 February that we would order the government's position or order some position from outside. Who made this decision, and on what basis was that decision made, that we would order an opinion from a lawyer named Keres? We'd all read that Keres opinion in the paper a long time ago. Where did this decision come from? Where is this decision of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs? As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I'd like to know who decided this. What right does the chairman of the committee alone decide such matters on behalf of the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U222	Thank you, Javier! Dear former Prime Minister, you are on the wrong path! On the contrary, this bill gives pension funds the opportunity to bring extra money into the Estonian economy. If I may have expressed badly, I will say again that pension funds only take out loans if they have the benefit of continuing to lend this loan money to entrepreneurs in Estonia. I suggest we meet with the pension managers of LHV and Swedbank. They tell your party how useful it is to be able to borrow more and invest this money in the Estonian economy. These requests were addressed to the Commission, both fund managers and Estonian entrepreneurs asked for the opportunity to invest more. Today's concern is that many banks no longer grant loans to Estonian entrepreneurs, but pension funds still provide.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U223	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank and congratulate you, you are very good at giving an overview of the sessions of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. You must have done better than I did, very quick and a good conclusion. However, as far as the question of who decided to discuss the position is concerned, the committee chairman always makes a proposal on the agenda and sends it out in writing. This was also the case this time, as always, and then the Members of the Commission voted on whether or not to endorse the agenda. [[???V. Toomast ütleb kohapealt vahele: 'Küsimus oli, kes tellis Kereselt arvamuse ...'???]] The chairman of the committee presented this draft, apparently he asked for it. The chairman of the committee can comment on this in greater detail, but apparently he himself asked to help write down this opinion, as he submitted it. The members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had the opportunity to say that we did not agree with this position, and the members of the committee had the opportunity to say that we agree with this position, and they actively took advantage of this opportunity. Four members of the Commission decided not to agree with the chairman and five members decided to agree with the position of the chairman of the committee. This is how the Commission's opinion, the result of a majority, developed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U224	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U225	Thank you, Mr President. Since the good Vilja here touched on my name and expressed my alleged views, I think I can make a statement of opposition.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U226	Thank you, good Urmas! I have to start looking. I explained it once before. Pension funds take, once again I stress, a loan only if they can continue to borrow it profitablely. And for three years, they'll be given the chance that they might be in a bad position with their liquidity if too many people get out of the pillar. They can go down in liquidity, and then they won't take on any more credit, because they've probably already made some good deals. I'm telling you, I suggest you look at the result of your second pension in the last week, and then you'll see exactly where you stand. Aivar Sõerdi's question was answered by Siiri Tõniste that the fund's management fees were built on the logic that the fees would regress if the fund's volume increased. If the volume of funds starts to decrease, the Ministry plans to review the fees for the management of the funds.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U227	I'm interrupting once. You don't stand a chance as a rep. You will have this opportunity when your name is mentioned during the negotiations. However, you will have the opportunity to ask your first question to the Commission rapporteur if you would like. It's a chance you have. Did Mr. Kruus have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U228	I'm a little confused. The rapporteur at the moment mentioned such a thing that work had been ordered to express the position of the Members of the Commission, but the Members of the Commission have never said such things. I didn't get it very well, and that's why I'm a little confused.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U229	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions. Now we're opening negotiations. In the negotiations, representatives of the political groups are preferred first, but the negotiations are open to all. Kaja Kallas on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U230	It wasn't a procedural question, but if the waitress wants to, she can answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U231	Yeah. The chairman of the committee presented the draft position of the committee and the members of the committee had the opportunity either to support the draft as the Commission's position or not to support it. And after the members of the Commission decided to support this position, this is a position supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U232	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U233	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Let's get on with it from here. The same draft written by Paul Kerese was discussed in the committee and, in fact, before Paul Keres said that he had been hired by the Ministry of Finance, and it turned out that Keres had written this draft, the chairman of the committee also spoke of the fact that a working group had been gathered between the two meetings of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We understood this was a Commission working group that the Commission had not formed. This working group was, in fact, the 'final assembler' of this draft, and it was claimed that Paul Keres had also provided input to it, and it seems that his contribution was relatively high. We did not understand why this working group was convened and who was specifically part of this working group. My question to you is this: can you tell us what the task force was? According to the Chairman of the Commission, this group has allegedly drawn up a draft that you have approved.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U234	Thank you. Firstly, since the Commission did not set up a working group, I agree with you on this point, it certainly cannot be called a Commission working group. The Commission can set up working groups, but in this case the Commission has not taken such a decision. I understood the explanations given by the chairman of the committee that he set up the working group himself, consulted the person with different people, asked the representative of the Ministry of Finance to draw up the Commission's position and presented it to the members of the committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U235	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U236	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Since the good fruit here put words that I have not actually spoken in my mouth, I would like to know clearly from you whether I remember correctly. As far as I am aware, I did not protest, but asked the President's representative, Mati Päts, whether the President could resolve this issue impartially, as he himself participated in the drafting of the pension law. And, of course, I'm going to add Mati Päts's answer to this, in which he said it was inappropriate to talk about it. When I pointed out that no such words were said in the Riigikogu, he apologized, but said that in his thoughts he would stick to his own position. Does my memory remember correctly?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U237	It was certainly a broadly correct description of what took place at the meeting on 20 February. I'm simply stating that the lawyer representing the president was Madis Päts.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U238	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Now it's another waitress's turn. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, to serve as a waitress. The time is 20 minutes and may be extended if desired.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U239	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna start by saying that our protocols are up nicely from last week, and if you'll excuse me, I'm not gonna count one off for one. The minutes shall state the questions raised by all Members of the Commission. Whether the chairman of the committee liked them or not, they are all written and there are all the answers. If anyone wants to be specific, I have the protocols with me, but I don't think it's necessary to read one to one. In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we discussed the Act on funded pensions not announced by the President of the Republic and, in this connection, the law on the amendment of other laws in preparation for a new debate on 20 and 25 February. During the meeting on 20 February, Mr Tõniste, Head of the Insurance Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, Kertu Fedotov, adviser to the same department, and Tõnu Lillelaid, chief specialist took part in the discussion. The Commission decided by consensus to appoint the Chairman of the Commission as rapporteur, the speaker before you, with 6 votes in favour and 5 against, to support the adoption of the Act on funded pensions not announced by the President of the Republic and, in this respect, the amendment of other laws as amended. A little bit about what happened in the Commission and about opinions. Decision No 551 of the President of the Republic highlights in particular the following shortcomings in this Act: According to the President, the amendment to the Act will put an end to the purpose of the pension system. The President considers that the changes made to the pension system by the law adopted are neither justified nor proportionate, as they make the current mandatory funded pension substantially voluntary and allow for the waiver of the existing special purpose of the pension funds collected or collected. According to the President, the fundamental right to state aid under § 28 (2) of the Constitution in the event of old age, incapacity, loss and deprivation, as well as the fundamental right to property arising under § 32 of the Constitution, is excessively violated. The contested law is primarily based on the objective of giving people greater freedom of choice to decide whether or not to raise money in the second pillar. As a matter of fact, changes to the proposed mandatory funded pension system are not retroactive. These amendments do not impose obligations on people retroactively and do not take away the rights acquired in the past. On the contrary, the obligation to raise money in the second pillar will be removed and everyone's right to join the second pillar will be added. The legislator has a wide margin of discretion in guaranteeing the fundamental rights deriving from § 28 (2) of the Constitution. According to § 28 (2) of the Constitution, the State must ensure that the minimum necessary means of subsistence are available, which is the minimum subsistence requirement. According to the European Social Security Code, the pension must be at least 40% of the net earnings of ordinary men's simple workers, but it is also covered by the first pillar. Thus, the position taken by the President that, with the entry into force of the law, the current pension system as a whole will cease to function properly is incorrect. It is also incomprehensible how the law unduly affects fundamental property rights. According to the President, the withdrawal of the 4% social tax component is contrary to the rule of law and the fundamental right to equality. In paragraph 2 of the President's decision, it is considered that the possibility for some persons to withdraw, in addition to the 2% paid on their remuneration, the 4% social contribution paid by the State and to freely use it is contrary to the rule of law laid down in § 10 of the Constitution and to the fundamental right of equality arising from § 12 of the Constitution. The social tax rate is 33%, of which 13% goes to public health insurance and 20% to pension insurance. Of this 20% pension insurance money, 16% goes into public pension insurance and 4% is divided between those who have joined the second pension pillar. The Second Pillar Reform Act gives people the freedom to decide whether or not to raise money in the second pillar. The Second Pillar Reform Act also allows people who leave the second pillar to withdraw their collected money. Such a right cannot be regarded as a tax credit because the tax liability and the tax rate for the social tax payer do not change on the basis of the rights conferred by the Second Pillar Reform Act. The proposed changes to the mandatory funded pension scheme are not inherently retroactive. These changes do not impose obligations on people retroactively, nor do they take away the rights acquired in the past. On the contrary, the reform removes the obligation to raise money in the second pillar and adds everyone's right to join the second pillar. In establishing the second pillar, the legislator did not foresee that regulation was foreseen for a period of time, nor did it promise that regulation would ever change. The pension system cannot be regarded as being final and ready. Money paid out of the second pillar is money in the pension fund, which has become the property of a person, and it is not a distribution of tax revenue. When setting up the second pillar system, Siim Kallas, author of the then draft, explained to the Riigikogu that the money placed in the second pillar is the property of the person himself. I quote what Mr Kallas said at the debate at first reading of the draft funded pension law on 9 May 2001: 'You will put 2% there and you will become a 6% property. It's a fundamental difference in this whole thing. ' Consequently, persons not included in the second pillar had no legitimate expectation that the second pillar would never change, and since the pension money in the second pillar has already been transferred to the persons, the purpose of the social tax is not relevant in the present question. Therefore, the majority of the Riigikogu's Finance Committee found that the fundamental rights deriving from § 10 and 12 of the Constitution have not been unlawfully violated by the proposed amendment to the law. According to the President, those leaving the second pillar influence the value of the property of those remaining there. In paragraph 3 of the President's Decision, it is considered that, by amending the law, the State creates a disproportionate risk that the value of the units of the second pillar pension fund and, consequently, the subsequent expected pension of the pension fund survivors will be significantly more dependent on the behaviour of the owners of the second pillar than has been the case in the financial markets and the economy. The President therefore takes the view that the amendment of the law disproportionately affects the property rights of the unit-holders remaining in the pension funds under § 32 of the Constitution. The fact that money can be withdrawn from the pension fund or that collecting this money is a person's choice is not novel. For example, voluntary pension funds operate on such principles. In the case of compulsory pension funds, contributions have so far been compulsory and withdrawals are limited to inheritance and retirement age. Despite the differences, the returns of voluntary and mandatory pension funds have been quite similar in Estonia, while the returns of voluntary pension funds have rather exceeded those of the mandatory pension fund. In order to facilitate the management of investments, a long period of notice is foreseen for withdrawals from the Fund. In view of the views of market participants, the period of notice of exit from the second pillar has been extended to five months in order to mitigate the large sale of pension fund assets that might result from the exit from the pension fund. It was only one month in the bill we started. The amendment will provide management companies with the necessary knowledge in due time of the forthcoming changes and protect the unit-holders of the pension fund from potential losses that could unexpectedly arise from such changes. In addition, in order to mitigate this risk under the Second Pillar Reform Act, the management company has been given the possibility to borrow more from the pension fund: 25% instead of the current 10%. However, this risk is unlikely to materialise. Instead of liquidity problems, it may temporarily be a challenge to meet different investment constraints. If people leave the fund, the fund will have to dispose of part of its assets and this will reduce the size of the fund. Consequently, there may be a situation where the structure of the fund's assets no longer meets the requirements laid down by law. To this end, it is envisaged that the Fund may temporarily not comply with these requirements in 2021 to 2024. At the same time, the Fund's investments must be brought back into line with the requirements as soon as possible. The development of the Second Pillar Reform Act has also taken into account the risks that could arise as a result of withdrawals in the first years after the reform. The necessary stress tests have been carried out, which have shown that the disbursement of money for most pension funds does not pose a very large liquidity risk. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that the liquidity and stress tests carried out by the Financial Supervision Authority showed that the level of liquidity of mandatory pension funds is generally either very good or good, so that the regular management of pension funds in the event of a more moderate exit is not likely to be disrupted. All these measures are intended to protect people who want to continue to raise money in the second pillar. The Second Pillar Reform Act does not provide for a higher rate of unit redemption fees because, alongside mandatory pension funds, people can also start using an investment account for pension collection. If the redemption fee were to be set at the time of withdrawal from the pension fund, it would first direct the pension with its own money to an investment account from which it could already be withdrawn without a redemption fee. In this way, the redemption fee would not have a substantive effect. Fund managers are well prepared for the so-called fund-run situation, i.e. for a large number of people to withdraw money from the fund, and should liquidity problems arise, they will have the opportunity to use additional loan amounts to keep the pension fund liquid and stable. The majority of the Riigikogu's Committee on Monetary Affairs therefore found that the purpose of the amendment of the law outweighs the low intensity of the interference and the possible interference with the fundamental right of ownership is in accordance with the Constitution. According to the President, the cancellation of lifelong pension contracts violates the property rights and legitimate expectations of pension beneficiaries, as well as the freedom of business of insurers. In paragraph 4 of the President's decision, it is considered that the amendment of the Act jeopardises the right of persons to receive a pension on the basis of life-long pension contracts and, in the case of persons who have joined a compulsory funded pension and who have concluded a pension contract, disproportionately infringes the principle of legitimate expectation under § 10 of the Constitution and the fundamental right of property under § 32 of the Constitution. In addition, according to the President, the regulation disproportionately affects the freedom of business of insurers, which is protected by § 31 of the Constitution. The President considers that the interest of policyholders who have joined the compulsory funded pension scheme in withdrawing the collected money does not outweigh the legitimate expectations of policyholders who do not wish to cancel their pension contract with regard to the stability and sustainability of the system. The solutions proposed by the Second Pillar Reform Act ensure that people who wish to terminate the pension contract can do so. At the same time, people who wish to continue their pension will not lose it. Thirdly, the amendment of the regulation does not jeopardise the solvency of insurers. Both the policyholder and the insurer have the right to terminate the contract. As of the end of 2019, nearly 8 000 pension contracts have been concluded. According to the current Act on funded pensions, a pension contract is usually concluded for life. If the amount collected in the second pillar is too small to pay a life-long pension, the amount is less than 50 times the national pension rate, then the pension contract can also be concluded on a fixed-term basis. Account must be taken of the fact that the conclusion of a pension contract has been the only way for some people to start using the money they have collected in the second pillar, so it cannot necessarily be concluded that all those who have signed a contract actually want to receive such an insurance pension. The President considers that the insurer has a legitimate expectation that the legislation will not interfere with the established contractual relations. Intervention thus limits the freedom of business of insurers. However, the insurer does not have the full assurance today that lifelong contracts will be honoured until the end of their term because the policyholder has the right to change the insurer. The Second Pillar Reform Act gives people who join the second pillar the right to leave the pillar and do so with the money collected, and the Second Pillar Reform Act also gives all retired people the freedom to choose how to withdraw their money collected in the second pillar. A fixed-term pension or withdrawal of all money at the same time is also allowed instead of a life-long pension. The same right already exists for people who receive a pension from the second pillar. They can terminate their pension fund and withdraw the remaining money at the same time. Thus, in the case of regulation, the comparable groups are not in the collection phase and in the payout phase, as found in the President's decision, but only the retired make up the reference base very clearly. Some are in a fund scheme and others are in an insurance scheme. To accept a situation in which contracts concluded so far are valid until the death of a person and to give the possibility that such contracts will not have to be concluded in the future, the former system may no longer work well for insurance companies. There may be new clients for insurance companies, but less so far. Insurance companies can no longer take into account in their financial plans that they are constantly adding a considerable amount of additional contracts. Therefore, the Second Pillar Reform Act also provided for the possibility of cancellation of pension contracts already concluded, together with the payment of the refund value of the contract. Given that, in general, lifelong annuity contracts cannot be cancelled once disbursements have started, the Second Pillar Reform Act gives such a right only temporarily to people who have concluded pension contracts. A person can decide whether to stay in the second pillar and get a pension or leave. Such a decision shall be taken by 31 March 2021 at the latest, and it shall not be possible to amend it later. For all new pension contracts to be concluded from 1 January of the following year, the principle that such contracts cannot be left, if they have already been concluded, remains valid. Otherwise, it would be extremely difficult, if not impossible, for insurers to offer pension contracts. The Second Pillar Reform Act also gives insurers the right to waive pension payments under existing pension contracts and imposes an obligation on the State to take over the pension payment arrangements in such cases. Therefore, the right to terminate the contract is not unilateral. In order not to protect policyholders who wish to continue their pension, there is a possibility that, if the pension contracts are terminated by the insurer, the pension will continue to be paid by the State. If the insurer opts out of pension payments, the state will continue to make payments to policyholders through the Social Insurance Board. If the insurer does not give up pension contributions, the policyholder receives pension contributions in the same way as before. Thus, the policyholder's fundamental right of ownership and the possible interference with legitimate expectations are minimal. The second pillar has always been exposed to the risk of a lack of an insurer offering lifelong pension contracts. The President assumes that, when the Act enters into force, insurers will not continue to operate and that the policyholder cannot continue the pension contract. Such a risk, i.e. the cessation of the undertaking's activities, may also arise without this amendment to the law. An insurance undertaking may terminate its business if a sufficient number of policyholders change their insurance undertaking and the insurance undertaking is unable to continue its business for economic reasons. Even if such an option exists, the resulting barrage will be limited in strength, as the State will guarantee the contributions of the insurer under the pension contract even if the insurer opts out of pension payments. At the same time, the insurer has a duty to ensure its solvency. The objective of the persistence of the pension contract set out in the current Act may not be very important as the OECD has been critical of the mandatory nature of the pension contract. I quote the words of Mr Kallas at first reading of the draft law on funded pensions on 9 May 2001: 'After careful consideration, the proposal of insurance companies not to allow the inheritance of mandatory pension fund units was disregarded. In particular, the second pillar of the pension system is an asset collected by a person, the so-called deferred income, which should logically also be subject to his or her right to inherit. All the more so as the first pillar, where most of the money is still going, remains solidarity-based and non-inheritable. ' I'm asking for an extension!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U240	On behalf of the Group of the Kersti Sarapuu Central Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U241	On behalf of the EKRE Group of Paul Puustusmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U242	Aivar Kokk on behalf of the Isamaa Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U243	Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U244	The majority of the Riigikogu Committee on Monetary Affairs took the view that the violation of the freedom of business and legitimate expectations of insurers is proportionate, as the measures to mitigate the interference contained in the draft law ensure that the intensity of the interference is such that the aim of the law outweighs the interference. According to the President, the changes do not ensure an adequate pension. In paragraph 5 of the President's decision, it is considered that the withdrawal and free use of funds collected from compulsory pension funds significantly reduces the ability of the pension system to meet the objectives set for it and thus violates the fundamental principles of human dignity and the social state arising from § 10 and § 22 (2) of the Constitution. The Second Pillar Reform Act increases people's choices and responsibility for pension design. Everyone can decide whether to remain only a customer of the first pillar or also contribute to the second pillar. Investment opportunities in the second pillar are significantly expanding. The potential risk of or reduction of poverty is influenced both by the individual's choices and decisions and by the wider policy chosen by the country. The Estonian pension system and its three pillars are constantly monitored and it is constantly developing various developments and improvements. The next major analysis, linked to the Second Pillar Reform Act, is planned by 2023 at the latest. According to this, the Government of the Republic must prepare an analysis of the financial and social sustainability of the pension system by 2023 and submit a proposal to the Riigikogu to change the pension system if necessary. Such analyses will be repeated every five years, and according to the contested law, the Ministry of Finance will have to draw up an analysis of the effects of the voluntary conversion of compulsory funded pension by 2023 and, if necessary, propose amendments to the legislation. The regulations of the contested law alone do not entail any significant changes to the pension system. The effects come from human behavior. If no person makes use of any of the possibilities offered by this law, nothing really changes. According to the President, the amendments violate the principles laid down in the preamble to the Constitution and, consequently, the intergenerational agreement. In paragraph 6 of the President's decision, it is considered that the voluntaryisation of compulsory funded pension imposes unreasonable financial obligations on future generations, in relation to the safeguarding of fundamental social rights arising from § 28 (2) of the Constitution by the State. The issue of the tax burden addressed in paragraph 6 of the President's decision is the question of political choices. Whether or not, when and what taxes will be raised is the subject of a political agreement. These issues are not regulated by the Second Pillar Reform Act. And seventhly, the President has also pointed out that the law amends a provision of family law that does not exist. Paragraph 7 of the President's Decision draws the Riigikogu's attention to the fact that § 27 (2) (4) of the Family Act has been amended by § 3 of the Pensions Act and related amendments to other laws (statutory reform of compulsory funded pension), which does not exist. This is a technical error: as regards the amendment of the provisions of the Second Pillar Reform Act, the final version of subsection 3 of the Act contains the correct text of subsection 27 (2) (4) of the Family Act, but the corresponding amendment order should have been an addition to subsection 27 (2) (4) of the Family Act, not an amendment to paragraph 4. According to the majority of the Riigikogu Committee on Monetary Affairs, this is a fingernail. According to page 73 of the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, § 27 (2) (4) of the Family Act is a new or additional provision. This is not a substantive deficit or an objection to the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U245	Thank you. Annely Akkermann, please! An extra three minutes, so eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U246	Thank you. Heljo Pikhof, please, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U247	Thank you. It is clear that the Committee on Monetary Affairs has discussed the matter in depth and has also drawn up a comprehensive record. Looks like the protocols are okay here. And thank you for your thorough review. At the same time, a small request: would you repeat the points where the majority of the Commission, in other words, members of the coalition, differed from the President's opinions, i.e. they considered one or the other point to be constitutional? And louder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U248	Thank you. As I said at the beginning of the report, these points were voted and the result of the vote was 6 supporting votes and 5 against.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U249	Jürgen Ligi, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U250	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U251	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to inform my dear colleague that it was difficult for the rapporteur to say what the views of the coalition ambassadors were, since the coalition ambassadors remained silent throughout the meeting, with the exception of the chairman of the committee himself. So they couldn't say anything. But I want to ask for a decision on point 7. You claimed this, and you fought for life to make the wording known as 'finger'. Is it going to be that the President of the Riigikogu sends a letter to the State's Official Journal and says, sorry, we went a little wrong here? It has been so far that all such things have been dealt with and corrected. Is it enough now that we actually wanted something else, but it turned out wrong? Is this new legislative opportunity now emerging?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U252	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! It is a great pity that we must discuss this matter here only in the language of paragraphs and legal terms and that here the majority of the Riigikogu is replaced by lawyers. In fact, the Constitution does not say that the government must not be stupid, that it must not be reckless and that the Riigikogu must not replace lawyers. He simply does not think of it, but, of course, the paragraphs also reflect indirectly or directly the real problems that arise for society in connection with this draft, and we must also talk about them today. First of all, the second pension pillar actually only guarantees a minimum of living for future pensioners. This is because the demographic situation is deteriorating and there is no longer a comparable number of payers in the first pillar. This is not a question of freedom; it is not a question of investing in yourself; it is possible to invest in all free money, as much as it is. Release of the second pension pillar is a direct loss to the economy, said Eesti Pank and all international experts. After all, in the first moment, a consumption bubble is created, which worsens the economic structure, violates prices and wages, but then becomes hungover and long-term economic growth is shorter. There will also be fewer future consumers. This will, of course, harm future generations in the first instance, who do not have this minimum living condition. This harms those who have to support their parents rather than commit to their family life and to caring for their children. Unfortunately, the authors of the bill say exactly the opposite, but they lie. This bill also harms businesses. The importance of freedom to conduct a business should not be underestimated. The amendment will harm those companies that lose long-term investments and, in the second order, those who lose their business, to whom the state has promised that they can manage these funds, and they have committed themselves to long-term contracts. That's a serious question. This is a tone to the parallel of the Fatherland, a similar question that pharmacies should not be forced to give up. It's actually a similar thing. I'll tell those who have been to this remote control to speak in the name of the Fatherland. I actually agreed with you on the previous issue. The law will certainly harm those who remain in the pillar, as the President also says in legal form. There is no answer that we have liquid pension funds and they themselves say that they are fine. What else do they have to say? What do the banks have to say about where the money is taken out? Still that we can handle it. But for those who remain in the funds, the return on the pillar will fall, as the funds will decrease and liquidity will need to be kept more. Yes, there is also pressure on the rise in administration fees, which have actually been made an elephant rather than an issue that is less decisive. After all, the leavers will get their losses, but only in the future. They don't appreciate it, just as they don't really appreciate many long-term processes. And the question isn't that we're gonna disparage these people, it's just human nature. The average person doesn't know how to evaluate long-term processes. It's made clear in psychology and economics. Man cannot appreciate his future financial needs, his future standard of living. This is why pensions are jointly liable in viable countries; pension systems are state-owned, with state guarantees, with public support. And to tell you in this situation that it's a huge freedom, even though you don't have that money in the future, even though that money is needed more than it is, it's just stupidity. We have been lied to several times before about the Riigikogu's remote control, talking about how money burns and how pension funds have not met expectations. After all, the expectations of pension funds have been built up over 40 to 50 years. By midway, people have been there for ten years and not consistently. This is not an indicator of how much has been accumulated by now. The indicator is projections and they say that pensions will be 30% lower without the second pillar. And that's a very hard distinction. It is already possible to see that if the pension fund is not paid into the second pillar, only 1.6% can be saved, but 6% can be recovered from the monthly savings of 6% to 6%! It is possible to avoid tax in the future. So one bunch of lies and demagogy has been dealing with this whole bill by the initiators. I am pleased that the President also came up with those arguments which, in his opinion, are not constitutional until the end. In fact, they all relate to the Constitution and, in fact, the harmful effects of this law are still very diverse. Hopefully, the Supreme Court will also take into account these substantive arguments, although the Constitution does not really say that the government can be stupid or that pensioners can be paid only income support, as one of the advocates of the bill in the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U253	Thank you, Maris, for a very good question. Indeed, there was a longer debate on this issue in the Commission, and this question was explained to us by Mr Varend in the Commission. We asked for this, bearing in mind both the position of the Riigikogu Committee on Legal Affairs and the position of the Riigikogu Official Journal. Our decision was in committee not one, the other or the third, but we turned to the Riigikogu Board that if they agree to change this one word, it will be changed if they do not agree, it will not be changed. The Commission itself did not change that. But in view of practice, in most cases all of whom we asked and they were not so-called Presidential or government lawyers or advisors, but people from this very house said that this was a technical correction, and nothing else. That is not my opinion, it has been asked by several parties. And even when the law is declared, one word may be changed. Unfortunately, that is the case. If you ask me, I'll say that maybe this isn't the best situation, but it's been done for years.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U254	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U255	Thank you. My question is briefly this: what is it that you have just read? In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the high level of opposition's argumentation is an advantage, and this has been very evident in all discussions on this issue. The coalition ambassadors are silent. Nevertheless, you presented a text to the Commission's decision, which was only the position of the coalition, which did not itself express it in the Commission. Now, at our request, you have added, as if, to this opinion, a protocol that adequately reflects the debate. But tell me what it was that you just read! This was once again a completely one-sided statement in my understanding and did not reflect at all the fact that there were different opinions in the Commission. So, did you write the original paper for longer, and that's it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U256	Thank you, Jurgen! I started by not reading the protocol, but I'm about to read your quotes so things are settled. The report is drawn up in response to both minutes. On the one hand, there are the answers of the Ministry of Finance and, on the other hand, the answers that we voted on: yes or no. If you look at the protocols, you'll see it's written on the basis of these two protocols. It is not directly written off the record line, but the replies of the representatives of the Ministry of Finance have been selected. But, yeah, I'm gonna read out some simple questions, so no one gets the wrong idea. Because the opposition was critical. Maris Lauri stated that he did not agree that leaving the pension fund would not affect the fund's return. Riina Sikkut noted that the purpose of the pension is still lifelong payments for the rest of a person's life. Aivar Sõerd said that when the contested law came into force, the value of the assets in the funds would depend on the behaviour of the leavers. Andres Sutt pointed out that the maturity of 5 to 9 months would not help to realise long-term investments in the illiquid market. Jürgen Ligi expressed the opinion that a situation in which the state allows for an inadequate pension to be paid would end at some point in time with the need for a government that needs to raise taxes, as the introduction of mass migrant labour is unlikely to be agreed. Jne, et cetera. Your criticisms are literally recorded in the minutes. If you want, I'm ready to read all this protocol. But in my speech on each decision, I also said a sentence that the majority supported these proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U257	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U258	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I will now ask the same question for the third time, to which I did not receive an answer in the Commission, as regards the violation of ownership of those who remain in the second pillar. The material produced by the lawyer who spoke at the meeting of the Commission, just as it is pointed out that pension funds will be able to borrow more. But taking out a loan is also a cost, and that cost will be borne by those who remain in the second pillar. That's one. I didn't get an answer to that. Maybe now you're bothering to answer. And the second question is this. At present, the situation on the financial markets has still changed considerably, the markets are panicked and the prices of securities shares are below market value. It could last a long time. If funds are now forced to sell to create the possibility of payouts, they will have to sell below cost or below market value, below cost, and this will cause damage to those who remain in the second pillar. How do you justify this extremely serious violation of property rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U259	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U260	Thank you, Aivar, for a good question. We've both been in business, and I think we should understand a lot of things in the same way. But sometimes a lot depends on whether you're in opposition or coalition. But we gave the possibility to borrow: in Sweden, pension funds currently have a 30% limit, we agreed on 25%. This is not a one-way loan option, but also a loan option in good times, when it is possible to lend more cheaply on world markets and support entrepreneurship in Estonia in order to earn more benefits for people in the second pension pillar. When it comes to risks today, on the one hand, the law makes it possible to hedge the risk by telling a person five months in advance that he or she wants to leave the fund. And up to one month before the deadline, you have the right to opt out. As for the current situation, I suggest you take off your computer and see what your second pillar number has done in the last week. When I look at my position here on my phone, I think that all members of the Riigikogu have reduced this number. When there are bad times, people need to be told that in bad times, they don't sell their units, they sell them when there's an upward trend and there's a plus. This is the place. Can't say if someone takes money out of the fund, the fund goes to the minus. You see, right now, no one's been able to withdraw money from the pension fund, but I think practically all the pension funds are down right now, it's in red. So much depends on the economy as well, and the cycles of the economy are, as we know, with ups and downs. Usually the cycle is 13 years long, but there have also been different cycles in the meantime. If we look at the Estonian economy now, we can see that the collection of all taxes is no longer positive, but has moved close to relatively red. Only one sector is sufficient, the tourism sector has fewer tourists, and the economy is immediately affected.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U261	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U262	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I will continue on the same subject that you have just finished. When we passed the law amending the law on funded pensions in January with the coalition's votes, the markets were in good shape, stock exchanges rose and investment seemed relatively simple. Everything you bought moved up. Now, just a month and a half later, there is a completely different situation: stock exchanges are in red and people are in fear and panic. I'll come back to the substance of the law once. Today we are talking about constitutionality, but also about the nature of the second pillar. Aren't you afraid that if the second pillar is still free, then at moments like ours, where there is panic, people worry about their health, their well-being, and then they see that the pension money is on fire, they tend to take out the money and put the funds in bad shape. Subsequent forced sales, bad decisions are made because they are sold in decline, not at good times. Are you sure this is a good plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U263	Thank you. I'm saying that if I had that money in my bank account right now, it would burn. If my money's in some pension fund bank account where he burns, I probably wouldn't keep it in that fund anymore. I'll take it out in time. But right now I don't have that chance and it burns exactly as it burns in this phase of the economic cycle. Is that going to increase? If I have put it in the right fund, productivity will be better if I have not been able to put it in the right fund, productivity will be lower. Jürgen and I disagree on this issue. Jurgen always shakes his head when I say what I say next. If I know correctly, you come from the so-called local government line. If you hadn't joined the second pension pillar, I don't know if you are, you're so young that you have to be joined, you could have earned a lot more in the first pension pillar, because you could have gained the percentage of public service experience. You don't get it in the second pillar. Today, in recent years, the first pillar has risen by 8% each year. In the second pillar, this increase will never be the same number. These calculations that were made here last year, I'd like to discuss with these people right now and show you how this calculation works. They only work in 18% of those currently affiliated to the second pension pillar. I agree with the opposition that it cannot be taken one to one because not everyone has been there for 18 years, some have had a shorter time. That is why this calculation is also very complex. It should be said that in the current economic situation, it would be very good to be able to withdraw money. In January, I should have said that it was very good that I couldn't take it out, then made money. Everything always depends on the economy. Of course, not all people know how to predict stock exchanges and economic cycles, most of us don't. If we were so smart, we wouldn't be sitting at this table, we'd be in some other business. But now there's been a chance. This law seeks to give the possibility that a person can make a decision. The average amount collected by the pension fund is 4000 euros. I can decide if I take out 4,000 euros at a time or divide it into 15 years, get 22 euros and 22 cents every month, and pay another 1% to the insurance company.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U264	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U265	Thank you. I think that these questions and answers, especially the last two of them, show very clearly why the President is right when he says in point 3 of his decision that, in addition to what is happening in the financial markets and in the economy, my pension will be significantly more dependent on the behaviour of other unit-holders in the future. And I am pleased that you have also read out the various positions that we had expressed in a further debate. But I think it is like a very useful review of all the minutes of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, including the annexes that have been added to it, along with the opinions of the various parties, in order to get a seriously good overview and also to find out that this is the picture. This is where I actually end up. There's no question for you today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U266	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U267	Thank you. Good waitress! My question is about Mr Sõerdi. Aivar drew attention to paragraph 3 of the President's decision, which states that placing these costs on those who remain in the pillar is disproportionately prejudiced by the fundamental right of ownership of the unit-holders remaining in the pension funds under § 32 of the Constitution. Moreover, the President says that, in these circumstances, placing the costs of leaving the pension fund on those who remain in pension funds imposes an additional, substantial and disproportionate financial burden on them. What you said was that we made such changes that pension funds could take out loans. You also said you were an economic man. I ask you: does borrowing increase pension fund liabilities or reduce them?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U268	Good Echo, thank you for your question. If a pension fund takes out a loan, it takes it off the world markets. [[They say something in the hall.]] Let me answer that, I understand your question very well. When pension funds start borrowing, they take it for one reason: to continue lending it. No company lends more expensive money if it gives it to someone else. Pension funds provide loans to companies. The pension funds don't keep money on the bank account, they're trying to make money with it. Of course, they only take out loans if it is useful for them to take it in order to continue lending it to an Estonian entrepreneur. If you look at the percentage of loans granted by pension funds to Estonian entrepreneurs today, you will see that this number is at least 10%, 15% will also be loans. Somehow, when we make our laws, when you take out a loan from the pension fund, you can put it in addition to your share capital. And then you borrow cheap from the bank, and the average loan will be small. So if you take out a loan, it is not the case that it causes damage, as Aivar thinks, but the opposite: the loan is only taken if it is useful. You never take a loan to yourself in a bad way. I also read that there is a place in the law that, in the period 2021 to 2024, if I remember correctly, it is possible that funds will go under the so-called bar and that they will not meet all the conditions. There will be a transitional period during this three-year period.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U269	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U270	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I would like to proceed in part on the basis of Mr Sut's question. The Constitution also lays down core principles or fundamental principles such as human dignity and the principle of a social state. They are intended to apply to any situation, no matter who is in the government, whether we have the economic crisis or the economic growth situation, what demographic development is like. These are things that are universally in place. And actually, in the same way, when we make decisions about the pension system, we should not be discussing and adopting laws that fit into a particular moment of time here. Let us consider what is happening on the stock markets, the possible economic crisis. These arguments, in order to give people greater freedom of choice so that they can secure themselves for retirement, may apply under the current circumstances. These and many of your other arguments apply in circumstances where employment is high and social tax is well received. In the context of the economic crisis, in which people are struggling to cope, is the survival of the second pillar still ensured after the law under discussion has entered into force?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U271	Thank you, Riina, for a good question. If I start recalling a few things again, maybe we can get the same answer. As we know, the median amount that people have collected in the pension fund is 4,000 euros. We have considered that if a person retires, he will live for at least another 15 years. If we divide this amount in 15 years and in 12 months, or 12 × 15, then there will be 22,22 euros left, which each month comes from his second pension pillar. We are taking the current pension: since 1 January, the average pension is 528 euros, if I remember correctly. In 2004, it was 126 euros, i.e. four times the pension has risen. We have been deprived of 20% of the first pension pillar, which is placed in the second pension pillar, where we have also been able to raise 2% of our salary. If I take 20% of this EUR 500, or a fifth, it will be 100 euros. Only EUR 22 has actually been added to the second pension pillar. And this EUR 100 will be added to the indexing supplement every year, but this EUR 22 will not come. The average amount in the second pillar today is EUR 6000, which means an additional EUR 33 per month. Only 18% have more than EUR 10,000. They can have an additional monthly income if it is divided into 15 years, 55 euros or more. Clearly, this money is small, and clearly there must be more to come from somewhere else. And the law states very clearly that if someone abandons the second pension pillar, at the same time, this 4% social tax goes into his first pillar. The social contributions paid on his salary go there and it is the duty of the state to help its weaker. At the moment, if we base 40% of the average man's salary, our pension is still extremely low. We can analyse here one way and the other way: if it did not go to the second pension pillar, EUR 400000, if it were to go to all the pensions paid from the state budget, then our pension would be quite different. It all depends on where these millions go, whether 400 million goes this way or that way. At the time that the law was in the debate, it was an interesting situation. The draft was defended by two ministers. I don't know if it was once like this, there's never been such a thing in my time. But Eiki Nestor asked Mai Treial about the fact that when the bill was filed, the system had to be basically like in Finland: not the amount of your social tax, but the state puts it at 4% or in Finland the company puts it at 4%. In that case, there would be no argument at all today. The first pillar would be a state pension, and the second pillar would be your money that the entrepreneur has put there and you yourself have. But we've got it out of social security. And then Eiki Nestor said we were just discussing how we're gonna pay off this pension gap. Hats off in front of all previous governments and Riigikogu formations that the difference has been paid off! Let's say the pensioner hasn't been beaten up in any way. The only difference is that if all the money had remained in the first pillar and this 400 million had been added to it, the pensions would be considerably higher today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U272	Is it a procedural question, Riina Sikkut? Please do not continue this debate under the label of the procedural question. What is the procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U273	I absolutely didn't get an answer. The point of my question was that, in the context of rapid wage growth, if people can be given freedom of choice and hope to remain in the second pillar, in the context of the economic crisis, where coping is difficult, this bill can still be used as a basis for the survival of the second pillar.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U274	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U275	Thank you. Well, the fact that Mr Sikkut did not get an absolute answer is probably a good one, given the circumstances, because the answer given to Kaja Kallas still went completely flat. This construction of pension funds, which borrow money in order to continue lending it to companies, did indeed go against a great deal. Rather, pension funds lend to leverage investments and also to increase liquidity. And, oh, surprise, contrary to what you're saying, pension funds keep some liquid funds in cash. But my question is that it is now visible over the world economy, including the Estonian economy, that there is a cloud of concern. And if this draft reduces the possibilities for pension funds to invest in the Estonian economy, then we will lose one of the most important investors - pension funds in our economy. Have you thought about that, and isn't it just spitting against the wind right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U276	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In the case of both rapporteurs, it seems that, although they speak very convincingly or try to say that there are no contradictions with the Constitution, this action, especially that which concerned the procedure of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, clearly points to the fact that this contradiction with the Constitution is actually feared and attempted to find some solutions that have not yet come together with the good practice of the Riigikogu. But when you answered Aivar Sõerdi's question, you sneaked past the question. The question was very simple. If there is a reference to a constitutional breach and to disproportionate costs for those who remain in the fund, can you say that if there is an opportunity to borrow more money also in order to provide liquidity to those who wish to go out there, it is at zero cost. As a rule, it is a cost and it remains on the people who remain in the fund. Do you agree or do you disagree with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U277	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On the anniversary of the Republic, the President asked: "What do you do, dear Riigikogu? ' Today it is very appropriate to ask what you do, dear Riigikogu, especially the coalition ambassadors. The President did not declare a law amending pension funds, referring to a number of constitutional problems. Today we should discuss whether to reopen this law in order to remove these constitutional problems, or whether it is not necessary, because the Riigikogu does not see these problems. Unfortunately, the procedure in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as well as in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has shown that the coalition did not try to solve these problems but created problems. During the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the members of the Riigikogu, after hearing the representatives of the President, were able to ask questions and after the guests left, the opposition representatives tried to open the debate. The debate was closed by the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, who said that we would not convince the coalition and we would simply vote on it. After that, we voted, and with the coalition's votes, the Commission adopted the view that it was not necessary to discuss the law again. That is what I understand: it is a democratic process: we have been overcome by votes. After the discussion, however, a document drafted by lawyer Paul Kerese, entitled 'The position of the Constitutional Commission', appeared, which does not contain any of the positions that the members of the Riigikogu actually presented during the committee's discussion. And it was asked to be presented by a lawyer who admitted that the Ministry of Finance paid for his work. There are now two constitutional problems. First, according to § 60 of the Constitution, members of the Riigikogu are elected in free elections on the basis of the principle of proportionality. The members of the Riigikogu work on committees that shape the Riigikogu's views on different drafts. The Riigikogu cannot delegate its work to a lawyer, especially if he has not been elected in the elections, nor can a lawyer describe a meeting which he has not attended, nor can he or she draw up a position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that does not reflect what was actually discussed in the committee. Problem No 2 concerning the Constitution, which has arisen further, comes from the fact that according to § 4 of the Constitution, the activities of the Riigikogu, the President of the Republic, the Government of the Republic and the courts are organised on the basis of separation and balance of powers. § 59 of the Constitution says that the legislative power belongs to the Riigikogu. At the meeting, attorney Paul Keres confirmed that his work entitled 'Constitution's Position' was commissioned and paid for by the Ministry of Finance, or executive power. If the Chairman of the Constitutional Committee lets the paid lawyer of the government do the work for the Riigikogu, this goes against the Constitution. This position cannot and must not be taken into account as the position of the Riigikogu. The law on pension funds not proclaimed by the President runs counter to a number of constitutional provisions, such as legitimate expectations, fundamental rights of equality, fundamental rights of ownership, freedom of business, fundamental principles of human dignity and the social state, as well as the principle of intergenerational agreement laid down in the preamble to the Constitution. There is also an error in the law: amendment of § 27 (2) (4) of the Family Act. This point does not exist, and this error cannot be considered a technical error and can only be corrected by the Riigikogu. In addition, procedural errors have been made in the process of re-examination both in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. This law must therefore be discussed again and the errors corrected. The question here is not only that the Riigikogu must do its work correctly and not adopt laws that are flawed or which conflict with the meaning and provision of the Constitution. This is also a question of the reputation of the Riigikogu. The members of the Riigikogu are able to do their own work and no one should ask you what you do anymore, dear Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U278	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! As was expected, today's debate on the pension system did not differ from what happened here some time ago. Still the same allegations about the crime of the century, vandalism, hogs, destruction and dismantling of the pension system. Indrek Neivelt, a well-known company, pointed out that, unfortunately, the opponents of the pension reform do not have any good ideas on how to improve the system. And since there are no ideas, there's a cramped way to hold on to the old and label the opponents. According to today's debate, he's right. Of course, the President also has a role to play here, who decided to brake pension reform and send this law back to the Riigikogu. It was his right. It did not weaken the government coalition's knees, for such a course of action was predictable. The president, while stressing the fact that he did not announce the law, stressed that he was based solely on constitutional compliance, but many seemed to have won the political will in fact. But what are we still arguing about in this sitting? The pension system based on the three pillars of the Estonian state has been in place for the last 17 years without major changes. Although it was set up with hope for the future, today it must be acknowledged that it has not proved very successful. Above all, people have been disappointed by the second pension pillar, which has not been the most rational place to place their money. We want it or not, the world around us is changing and the pension system is changing. I support the direction adopted by the country, we listen to the wishes of the people and we are ready to stand up for them. I would stress that the second pillar remains, that there are simply alternatives. The state does not dictate here, and the final decision will be made by the people themselves, whether to continue raising money in the second pension pillar in the current way, to keep the money collected and no longer make any additional payments, or to withdraw the amount collected and use it for the benefit of the future. There has been a lot of talk in this Chamber as well as elsewhere in the debate on pensions, as if people were rushing to withdraw their euros from the funds and spend them on pointless emotional shopping. Money may be a source of temptation, but people must understand that greater freedom also entails greater responsibility for their financial behaviour. Everyone needs to be clear: if money has been used in an unreasonable way, the amount of pension will inevitably be lower in old age. That is why it is very positive that this law will also create a platform where banks and investment funds will provide services for investment in general, but also by contributing to people's awareness of what is happening in the area of investment. This will certainly provide people with new opportunities to secure their future. In any case, the Centre Party supports people's freedom of choice in deciding their money. However, we want the national part of the reform to remain in the first pillar and for extraordinary pension increases. It is reasonable that, in addition to the Chancellor of Justice, the Riigikogu and the President, the Supreme Court is also shaping the position of the law that has received so much attention. At the same time, we must consider that the people have high expectations of the second pension pillar. People want more freedom to decide what to do with the money they collect. In addition, I would also recommend that everyone read the second pillar of helping Kristjan Järvan with the issue of the second pension pillar in today's Eesti Päevaleht. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U279	Indrek Saar on behalf of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U280	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen. We hear almost every day, both in the ordinary media and in social media, that pension funds are unable to meet the expectations and expectations that have been placed on them. Pension funds literally burn and burn. Pension collectors lose a significant part of their money, and the sums that people hoped to use in the future for their own good, simply disappear, melt in economic turbulence. It is, however, a form of deception when it comes to being a little outcasted. It is a fraud where hopes are given beautifully, but they have led to disappointment. As Mr Aivar said, indeed, how many years ago this creation of the second pillar fund was, expectations and hopes were much better. Yes, it was hoped, but as always, as always, it happened, and not for the better. And, you know, the mistake is not so much in the current reform programme, which aims to make the second pillar voluntary. The error is still in the principles on the basis of which this second pillar was formed and from which it started. They did not meet expectations and hopes. It is, of course, a change in the situation, and that is our iron duty. This is the discretion of the Riigikogu. Everything really depends on our will and our trust. This trust credit, which was given to pension funds, is likely to be deeply burned. Here I cannot agree in any way with our beloved-honoured opposition, the Reform Party and the Soviets, that this pillar must not be touched and made voluntary because the people are stupid, because the people lack financial literacy, that the people eat and drink this money. These are arguments that have repeatedly sounded in disputes. I still want to say that the only people who eat this money, and the only ones who drink it, are really pension funds themselves. And here we are dealing with quite serious political decisions and political struggle, not so much with the issue of constitutionality. Of course, the opposition makes use of its possibilities and tries to build objections to a very large extent to this level, as if it were a significant wrestling, also a violation of the Constitution in the Riigikogu. Let us look at the questions that have been put to us today. Most of them were formal, not substantive. And it's understandable, of course, but it's a matter of your own whether it's right, it's right. However, I would like to stress that the common position of our group is that there are three situations in which the pension reform is challenged: (a) there is no desire to recognise or correct mistakes made in the past, (b) there is no recommendation to trust our own people, and (c) the President has taken, as sad as it may be, a political position, because the substantive contradiction with the Constitution is not confirmed by any of the arguments put forward by the President. In addition, the appeal reaffirms this bad tendency that relying on the violation of the Constitution as a basis for restricting the discretion of the Riigikogu has become our day-to-day fashion issue, which devalues both the importance of the Riigikogu and, in fact, the Constitution itself. We must do everything we can to support the will of the majority of the people to direct their actions towards prosperity. We must also do everything we can to reduce the daily devaluation of the Constitution that has become a practice. And therefore, ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow Members, on behalf of the EKRE Group, I ask the honourable Riigikogu to support the adoption of the law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U281	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We have been discussing pension issues both here in this dignified hall and outside. To date, however, neither the arguments of the President, Parliament, opposition nor countless experts have led the coalition to seriously think. As a Social Democrat, I believe in people. I have not given up hope, and I will try once again to convince you, honourable coalition ambassadors, that the chosen path is not useful, nor is it any of us, the Nordic people, the customary behaviour. Much has been said in recent months about our stem text, Tammsaare's novel Truth and Right. And I can't miss Vargamägi today either. Do you remember how Andres Krööda's saved or asked about it and encouraged her to eat what she had saved? 'Cause then you get tired, you can't do it anymore. But Krõõt was a determined woman, and he could do without spending what he had saved. The face fell off, but it lasted. Tammsaare describes this way of thinking: 'The farm had been bought in debt, paid in only a so-called retainer, everything else had yet to make up for it. And when he didn't make it, the burden was on the children. But the master and mistress didn't want the children to make up for the place they bought. That's why the mistress was both tireless at home and in foreign work. Kids have to have a better fix. They do not need to slave for the manor German anymore, even they do not need to be enslaved. ' In the last 17 and half years, we, too, have been able to set aside some things. It certainly isn't enough, just as there wasn't enough butter to put away Krõõt. Yet, like Andres, we could rejoice and try to keep what we gather. Our northern neighbours collect a compulsory second-pillar pension from 1962 and, of course, earn 58 years of investment in more than 17 years. But there is no reason to despair. As a rule, people do not retire after 17 years of work, and the years ahead give us the opportunity to collect more supplies. Buying out farms didn't work out for one year either. Andres and Krõit did not want to leave the loan burden on their farm to their children. They worked hard to make their children better. Similarly, for the sake of a better future for their children, those who, to this day, set aside the funded pension money each month have made efforts. It is still so that our children are not left with the obligation to support an ageing society. Today, with this bill, the government coalition once again says that it is pointless to work towards a better future for children. And those who have worked hard so far can spend their lives with a calm heart. I do not know where the inspiration has been given to those who make such plans, but it is clear that this is not the truth and the right that describes our stem text, the joys and pains of being Estonian. The Social Democrats do not support the mentality of the non-Estonian one-day butterfly and oppose the adoption of the Pensions Act and the related amendment of other laws in an unchanged form.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U282	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Today, the Riigikogu will once again vote on whether or not to give the people of Estonia the right to decide for themselves the money they have collected. There has been a lively debate on pension reform for more than a year and a half and, once again, certain myths that have been tried to prevent the reform must be overturned. I'll do it right here in front of you. According to the President, once the second pillar has been made voluntary, the pension system will cease to work. He said that this would lead to large-scale risks for future pensioners. The fact that the reform of the second pension pillar gives people greater freedom of choice and opportunity for additional investments will benefit some of those who join the second pension pillar. There are also certainly those who will be harmed as a result of their decisions. However, this is not a legal argument, but a socio-economic starting point. Both today and after the pension reform, the working-age population provides people with the minimum income required in the form of public pensions. Can you ever change what you did? Both the President and the opposition parties have tried to highlight the fact that people who joined the second pillar could not expect changes to the system. In this argument, the already known 2 + 4 percent dispute is added. According to the argument, it is unfair for those who join the second pillar to be able to use 2% of their salary and 4% of the social tax included in the first pillar. With this argument, this argument does not go too far, as this argument completely eliminates any major changes to the pension system. The different treatment of those who join the second pillar and those who do not join the second pillar after the reform is caused by today's pension system, not by planned changes. From the moment the second pillar was created, the units of the second pension pillar were converted into people's assets. This is also demonstrated by today's situation in which the money collected in the funds of the second pillar is inherited. However, at the time the system was set up, insurance companies fought against this principle. Siim Kallas explained this in 2001 in such a way that, after careful consideration, the proposal of insurance companies not to allow the inheritance of mandatory pension fund units was disregarded. In particular, the second pillar of the pension system is an asset collected by a person, the so-called deferred income, which should logically also be subject to his or her right to inherit. All the more so as the first pillar, where most of the money is still going, remains solidarity-based and non-inheritable. The money collected in the second pension pillar belongs to both 2% of the person in the second pillar at the expense of his or her own salary and 4% of the person's right to state pension. This was confirmed when the Riigikogu spokeshop was created: you put 2% there and your property becomes 6%. It's a fundamental difference in this whole thing. Pension fund shares in the second pillar are already owned by people and the debate on the right to use social tax is not relevant. Who's taking the risk? The President's last substantive complaint to the reform is that giving people more freedom of choice can have the greatest impact on the value of the pension fund units of people who choose to continue in the second pension pillar. In spite of the fact that both the liquidity tests carried out by the Financial Supervision Authority and the pension fund managers have been told that the liquidity of the funds is either good or very good. In addition, the proposal of fund managers has already been taken into account in the Riigikogu. For example, the maximum permissible lending capacity of pension funds has been increased from 10% to 25% of the value of the fund's assets. If pension funds obtain loans on reasonable terms, borrowing may be more beneficial to unit-holders in both short and long term terms than quick selling of assets in the fund. The period of notice of exit from the second pillar has also been extended to five months. These are assistance measures if more people leave the funds than expected at the same time. The basics of pension reform have not changed. The coalition wants the people of Estonia to have the opportunity to decide their own money and future. Pension funds can continue to invest in the Estonian economy and thus earn annual income for pension fund members. Everyone will have the opportunity to continue in the second pillar. And whoever hasn't joined it will get that chance. In addition, alternative solutions for saving money for retirement will be available. Our Western constitution, which respects and guarantees the freedoms and fundamental rights of people, does not deny a person the right to take responsibility for his or her life and money. The Riigikogu must remember this principle when discussing pension reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U283	Ladies and gentlemen, By adopting the Constitution in the referendum, the Estonian people have set themselves a goal and committed themselves to promoting voluntary care in the framework of § 28 (3) of the Constitution. The second and third pillars of the pension system have been developed specifically for voluntary care to save money, motivate savings and raise savings. In the turn of the millennium, when the pension system was developed, it was known that few children were born in the 1990s and that in the already visible future, small generations would not be able to sustain large generations of retirement age. In order to ensure the voluntary welfare of the future, the Riigikogu decided, by means of the Income Tax Act, to allow 2% of gross income to be tax-free into the second pension pillar. In order to ensure the voluntary welfare of the future, the Riigikogu decided that 4% of the considerable social tax will be transferred to the second pillar of the pension and only to ensure the welfare of the future, not to repair the apartment or to buy a new car, not to repay the high-percent consumption loans, not to buy holiday housing in a warm country. For those who joined the second pension pillar, no promise was made that the money accumulated in the second pension pillar could be used for purposes other than care in old age. Those who did not join the second pension pillar were not informed that those who join the second pillar could withdraw 4% of the calculated social tax paid by themselves in cash at the best working age, in other words a fifth of the social tax paid by themselves. And this money, the money collected by the state's tax credit, can be taken out without a medical or age-related reason in the best working life. This is deeply unfair to people who did not join the second pension pillar. That is the unequal treatment in the most direct sense. Around EUR 16000 has been collected for those who joined the second pillar from the start and those who received an average salary in the interim 17 years. I've joined the second pillar since the beginning. When the law comes into force, I could buy a new car to get 4% of the social tax back. I won't do it. In addition to being foolish, irresponsible and shortsighted, it is deeply unethical and unfair to those who did not join the second pension pillar. And as members of our Riigikogu, you can't tell non-members what to do, life is unfair, equality doesn't exist and not all lottery tickets win. True, equality does not exist; one is short, the other is long, but equal treatment is a fundamental idea of the Estonian Constitution. § 12 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia clearly states: "Everything is equal before the law. ' In the spirit of the Constitution, I call for: ladies and gentlemen, today we are failing to adopt this law without amendment, we are supplementing the law on funded pensions in such a way that it serves its purpose of raising resources for care in old age. We and our children need these tools to be well cared for in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U284	Good manager! Good Riigikogu! Today, around lunch, we talked about human health, its importance, and people's livelihood. It was a short-term concern about how the corona virus affects the world economy, affects our country's economy, affects the health, well-being and well-being of our people. Now we are talking again about the well-being and well-being of people, but in a very long perspective. And it is not a question of mythical freedom; it is a question of the specific amount of pension, the same obligation imposed on the state by the Constitution to ensure that its citizens and all its inhabitants have a normal old age. All the serious analyses that have been carried out show that this law reduces pensions for all pensioners. There have been claims here that this law has a mandate for the majority of the people. That's not true. There are 101 people in this Chamber, but only one party that has received a clear mandate from the voters to abolish the second pillar in this form: this party is Party Isamaa. And they have a clear conscience in that sense, I think. I understood EKRE was somewhere in the meantime: neither this nor the other. But, good middle party, you promised your voters that you would stand up for the protection of this pension system, just as we promised and promised the Social Democrats. And we stand. And you also have the opportunity to do so today, ladies and gentlemen of the Centre Party. The President made it very clear what he considered to be a contradiction with the Constitution. These arguments also sound in many of the other legal opinions that have been given on this law. It is therefore sad that we did not actually hear anything new from the guardians of the law here today. The representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, not the one who gave an overview of the Commission's work here, but the other member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in fact, did not say a word about substantive contradictions, but said that the President had taken political positions. There were only reproaches, not substantive arguments, and that is a pity. In the same way, it is sad and embarrassing that we are still discussing this law without the protocol of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which is properly drafted. There was nothing to prevent this protocol from being properly written, the complaints from being discussed, and then the law from being dealt with and voted on. But we'll make our own reputation. The Constitution imposes a very clear obligation on the State to ensure that people can cope with retirement age and leaves it to the legislator to decide how the legislator does so. But the pension system is complete. It came out nicely here today. If you take a piece out of the whole thing, you're gonna have to put something in place, but no one said anything about what it is today. As the Remunerated Attorney of the Ministry of Finance has said here, we should simply agree that the minimum subsistence that comes from the state in retirement age must be enough. But let us also say honestly that if today were to be the case, the pension guaranteed by the state would be EUR 215. Let's talk about things the way they are. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U285	There's going to be an extra time. Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U286	I have heard very bad investment advice here today, and I have also observed financial illiteracy. It was said that the pension fund would take out loans and that this would in no way affect the guaranteed return on unit-holders remaining in the second pillar. That's a lie. This would only be right in one case: if this loan were to be taken in order to use it as leverage, i.e. to purchase additional assets for this loan. But that's not what we're talking about with this legislative amendment. What we are talking about is that the fund assets are not liquid enough and that the fund is borrowing to meet the requirements of the leaving pillar. It's the same situation when you're out of money, you go and take a credit card, it's free of charge, and you don't pay back. All this financial cost will be borne by those who remain in the fund. And that is, as the President rightly points out, contrary to the Constitution. Good fellows! This law cannot be adopted unchanged. Please vote according to your conscience and your mandate from the voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U287	Javier in clothing, please! Three minutes extra, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U288	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The government that initiated the bill has misplaced almost everything that can be done wrong on the road from the idea of law to this bill. The law, which will end compulsory retirement, will make any pension collection against the urgent costs of an individual facing a lower pension in the future. The society as a whole, however, makes it groan under a greater burden of poverty. This bill reduces the ability of pension funds to invest in the Estonian economy and contribute to economic growth. Pension Vandalism, experts say. We have a mandate, says the government. As if the voices in this Chamber would guarantee a monopoly of truth, or as the only party that allowed this change before the elections would have received the largest mandate of Parliament, not one of the smallest. The adoption of this law, which affects all our lives, was not subject to expert advice or substantive arguments. It was played to the hope that "money now in hand" would be a popular enough slogan. Yes, it is, for let us be honest, who at one point or another in life would not have in mind a pleasant expense for which there is a shortage of available resources. The story of everyone now rushing into the pension pillar for Nasdaq to trade shares and earn higher returns than professionals, probably doesn't even believe the drafters. Not only has the views of economic experts been ignored. The draft has also been drawn up in a legally sloppy manner and in violation of procedural rules and practices. Is it not really a contradiction with the Constitution, a non-existent provision to be amended by the law of a sloppy vein and the replacement of the substantive discussion by a vote of confidence by the government still sufficient? It seems not, because yesterday the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, with 5:4 votes, pushed into their position the writing of the jury, presented at the beginning of the committee as an expert and subsequently declared representative of the government, which had nothing to do with the statements made by the members of the committee themselves. If the draft is already in conflict with the Constitution, more so than the procedure and also the separation of powers laid down in the Constitution! Where have we fallen, ladies and gentlemen, if instead of our own positions, the government must hire us a lawyer to write down their real positions to members of the democratically elected Riigikogu? The rubber seal, ladies and gentlemen, has become a copy-paste, but once again Parliament has been reduced to a statute statistic. It seems forcefully that all the most important achievements of the Mart Laar government are trying to reverse the Jüri Ratas governments by four. One-size-fits-all income tax became a thousand-rate tax hump, and now a future-looking pension system is being sought to make populism a rocket fuel. Sad! Estonia deserves more. Good fellows, the vote of each of you will decide! It's not too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U289	Thank you. Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U290	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber and everyone who follows this debate in your homes! I wouldn't have come to the remote if I hadn't heard what the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs said. Good Paul, thank you for the words you also said in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but I still urge you not to be so brave as to talk about the mandate of the people. You also said here that it was the will of the people to carry out this reform. No, it's not! I reviewed the election results once more because of my interest. Indeed, as Mr Sutt pointed out here: Fatherland was the only one who asked for this mandate. The number of these votes was 64,000. Neither the Centre Party, the Reform Party, nor the Social Democrats allowed this. Even if you add up the votes of the Fatherland and the EKRE, your number of votes is lower than that of the Reform Party. So in this sense, it is certainly reasonable to talk about the will of the people and the mandate of the people in this Chamber, but not so imperative that someone has received an absolute mandate to say the will of the people. And the other reason I came to this remote control is to protect the President of the Republic a little bit. Regardless of who is the President of the State as a person or person, as an institution, the President of the Republic is obliged to assess the laws to be adopted in this Chamber. The President of the Republic has previously sent the laws back to this Chamber, regardless of whether the President has been Lennart Meri, Arnold Rüütel, Toomas Hendrik Ilves or Kersti Kaljulaid. They've sent the laws back to this hall. In this law too, the motive for return was not political, but substantive, justified. This decision has been given to all of us to read. The main argument is, of course, unequal treatment, but also the purely formal mistake of the coalition, which was rammed through by force and also brought to the attention of the President of the Republic. And it really is not, as some colleagues have said here, just a technical error that can be corrected for nothing. No, this is a substantive error and a substantive error can only be corrected by the grand hall of the Riigikogu. For the sake of this substantive error alone, the only option in this Chamber today is to decide not to adopt this law unchanged. Mistakes need to be corrected. But no, the roller has decided to go to the Supreme Court in any case. Well, then the Supreme Court must do its job and it will. But try, dear coalition ambassadors, to understand that when a decision is prepared, the decision must be properly prepared, both formally and in substance. Indeed, as far as discussions in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs are concerned, it is not correct that someone coming from outside this Chamber who says that members of the Riigikogu, that is your opinion. If the coalition ambassadors agree that they are told what they must think, that is their choice. But if we do not have the opportunity to say something or get our opinion in the minutes in this Chamber, it is not democracy. In fact, I very much hope that we will be able to hold this debate here again, that we will be voting in favour of this debate today. If this fails here, the Supreme Court must do so, and then the various committees must give their reasoned and reasoned opinion. Unfortunately, I am convinced that there will be an opinion similar to that written by Paul Kerese, which will be dullly voted with 5:4 votes, that this is the official opinion of the Riigikogu. But don't worry, we're going to write a difference of opinion there, and that difference of opinion will be properly reasoned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U291	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U292	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I am so sorry that there is no debate in this Chamber that there are only a few questions and answers. And this afternoon here, it's still been incredible. Whether we talk about what happened in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs or about the speeches made by the rapporteurs in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Monetary Affairs. This speech by the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs! I don't know if I've heard this before in this hall. I had the same feeling as when I had kids talking backwards. Nothing they say is true, the truth is the opposite of what they say. But that's it. Turning now to the President's opinion on the law under discussion today, I would like to emphasise that we are not making laws for a specific moment of time. We cannot take into account that employment remains high, that social tax is well received, that the economy is growing, that income is growing. The Constitution always applies to us, we must endure the test of time, these principles are universal and must be met regardless of what our government, economic growth or what the television programme or weather will be like. But the law we're discussing today! Indeed, one can imagine a situation where the risks that we have talked about for a long time do not materialise. We're not in that position right now. We do not live in an ideal world, and we cannot adopt a law that only under certain conditions will possibly give the expected result. In my opinion, what both the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs call for the President to adopt a political position is not, in fact, that. In one case, the authors of the opinion have read only the Constitution, in the other, the executive edition of the Constitution. Really, the state should guarantee the minimum subsistence for people anyway, but according to § 10 of the Constitution, the fundamental principles of the Constitution are the principles of human dignity and social state, which the Supreme Court considers to be the core of the fundamental order of the Republic of Estonia. These are the most important rules of the law. These principles provide for fundamental social rights, including aid to the State in the event of old age as referred to in § 28. And life can be considered dignified, among other things, when people's primary needs are satisfied and can participate actively in everyday life without shame or discrimination and can exercise their other fundamental rights and freedoms. With regard to § 28 (2) of the Constitution, it is stated that, for example, in the case of old age, public authority must take over the guarantee of subsistence, but the purpose of the Constitution is to ensure that there is a significantly better chance of living than the minimum subsistence. We are not saying here that the purpose of our pension system can, according to the constitution, be or must be to guarantee a minimum of living. We're talking about human dignity, we're talking about something much more. This year, for example, the minimum subsistence rate is EUR 221 and 36 cents. There is also a nice distribution of what this money could cost on average, what food costs are and how high non-food costs are. But I can't tell you what happens when an elderly person dies next door and wants to make a statement of condolences. I hope he doesn't want to put it in Postman, where the smallest ad costs 65 euros. The cost of housing should be waived in order to make this cost. No local newspaper, for example, in the Virumaa Official Journal, can handle 12 euros, which means that transport, communication and leisure expenditure, for example, must be abandoned within one month. Does the minimum standard of living guarantee a life of human dignity? I think, in fact, that we all share the same assessment is that we don't. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U293	I'll give you three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U294	Today, much has been said about whether it is private property or state property in the second pillar. This is not the subject of discussion. Siim Kallas has been quoted several times. It is clear that this is private property, private property collected on an ad hoc basis. This second pillar of ours is financed through social tax, and if this purpose is subsequently changed, especially after 17 years, it is really something that we cannot say that it is automatically equal treatment or that no one is put at a disadvantage or that there is no breach of the Constitution. Thirdly, what the President refers to on several points. For example, points 1 and 3 state that these are disproportionate measures. In fact, all the things that the law wants to do to give freedom of choice, to create investment opportunities, can be done differently. But not like this, at the same time, and leaving ten-year-long holes in reconnection will allow the money to be taken out at once and to move forward at a rapid pace. Risks that threaten the assets of the remaining, the macroeconomic and our financial markets, not to mention the risks of investment and fraud themselves, will be taken to allow the choice. Most importantly, future pensions and people's livelihoods will be put at risk. What the President refers to in his opinion and what has been said to be a political opinion on how solidarity between the generations, with different burdens on the generations, is not a marginal issue. This is a very important issue. With regard to the amendments introduced by the law, it would be much easier to make this decision if, in addition, there were an adequate picture of how the state would in future fulfil its pension obligations. I have the feeling that it has not come to everyone's attention that the people who will pay the first pillar of the future are financing social services, financing health and education and guaranteeing a minimum of living for everyone is much less than it is now. The generations of children and grandchildren of people currently working are much smaller. It cannot be over or over that we have to decide whether or not we are imposing a greater burden on them. All these objectives can be achieved in a different way. They can be achieved by not taking risks in such a way that we do not violate the Constitution, in such a way that we do not place anyone in an unequal position. There are popular decisions, but there are also decisions that are just right to make. Yes, maybe it really seems popular to vote in favour of this law again, but it is undoubtedly not right. We can achieve the same goal by different means and without taking risks. I do not think it is possible to vote in favour of this draft, and please, colleagues, from you in the same way, do not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U295	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U296	Three minutes more time, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U297	Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U298	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Last time we discussed this bill here, I gave a long and inflammable speech with absolutely no results. I got a little bit of credit, I got a little bit of disdain from my own people. But I don't really want to back out on what I said last time. I'm not gonna say it again. Read the verbatim report last time someone was curious right now. Basically, I want to talk about what we are doing here, this is not a pension reform, this is not a reform of the second pillar. This is the destruction, liquidation, demolition, not reform of the second pillar. The current pension system needs reform, that is what I said last time, but it does not need dismantling. And the demolition begins since we're making the second pillar optional. I'm not going to wave here with any social science research that says that people think the same way or the other way around. I'm saying very simply: find a young person who honestly tells you that his greatest dream is to get a high pension. You can't find a young person like that. Consequently, a young person does not start saving for retirement unless it is compulsory. It's that simple. Similarly, you will not find any young person who would say that his greatest dream is to care for his poor parents when they have fallen into poverty and are no longer able to work. Young people don't think about that either. But we should really make them act smarter. The biggest mistake of the current pension system is, in fact, that we are raising too little money there. We collect 6% of the salary in terms of the person's own contribution and the state's contribution, i.e. the social tax of the first fund. That's 6%. At the same time, we hope that someday we will receive about the same amount of pension as our Nordic pensioners' colleagues. But in the Nordic countries, pension funds collect three times as much money. In Sweden, 18.5% of the monthly pension is paid through cooperation between the state and citizens. Of course they get a bigger pension. If we demolish our pension system in the first place and liquidate the second pension pillar, we will certainly not approach the Nordic counterparts, but move further away from them. I've been a little amazed by myself, and I've seen some connection here that we've developed a certain number magic. In one talk show before the previous debate on this bill, Helir-Valdor Seeder said About that was the explanation. Maybe it is. I mean the other way around: the support of the Fatherland is about 7%, and yet we approve of their proposed draft and make it a law, thereby transforming the future of the entire Estonian population. How does this number game work together? Third example of number magic, again number 7: The Centre Party promised an extraordinary pension rise of EUR 100, only EUR 7 could be implemented. Are there any connection between these numbers? Unfortunately, because this 7% public-supported party, which is now pushing the dismantling of the general pension system in Estonia, offers the Central Party an opportunity. As the state's revenues increase, the state's liabilities decrease, the Centre Party will have the opportunity to make this extraordinary pension increase, of which a little or more precisely 93% is still missing. The opposition was told here that we have not made any proposals, we have not wanted to make any improvements to the pension system, we have only rode on the old system, and now we complain when it is demolished. Something like that. What do you mean, it's not? Even during the previous treatment of the draft, we made a hundred very substantive amendments. When it became apparent that none of them would be taken into account, Andres Sutt made 700 pointless proposals to at least delay this process. So you chose to tie the bill to the government's vote of confidence and run over us again. In the run-up to today's debate, we have tried to talk, but what has come up? We are practically falsifying the protocols, perhaps not in the sense of law, and I do not dare to say it and not to report a crime, but basically, the words that they have not said are placed in the mouth of the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. And then they try to put thoughts into the minds of the people of Estonia that they have never thought of. There is also a reference in the text of the law to a section of the family law that does not exist. They say it's a technical mistake. I have a better idea: change the family law. Write that point in there! I couldn't place it anywhere logically, but you'll find this place. Make this passage available, and then you can at least say that, well, we were ahead of our time, we referred to a point of law that didn't exist. Today's talk about this protest that was made yesterday and which was not reviewed, perhaps later, will be examined, shows that it was justified. So what do we do? Let's say the game's canceled, and we start over? That's not what you do. In the wrong order, we do these things. What can I say in conclusion? Most things have already been said, some other things will be said. But I just want to remind you one thing: believe me, poor ageing is not a dignified ageing. Unfortunately, this is exactly what most people are working for in this hall today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U299	Mikhail Lotman, please! Rep? Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U300	Thank you. I will simply add to Valdo's very good speech by not only proposing amendments to this draft, but by presenting twice a very good draft that would improve the pension system, but these, good coalition ambassadors, did you vote out of the procedure without discussing it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U301	Thank you. For the sake of the tenogram, this line came from Andres Sut because his name was named. Please, Mikhail Lotman, the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U302	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Riigikogu! Today, we are dealing with a very important question, a very important draft, and I am a little sad that we are not doing it in the most dignified way, but denouncing our colleagues and the Riigikogu as a whole. I'm not gonna pretend to be some kind of expert in economics or law. I'm talking about a simple person like that. As such a simple person, I do not understand the objections that have, like, violated any legitimate expectation or treated equally those who have joined and those who have not joined the second pillar. At the moment they joined the second pillar, they had other obligations and other rights, and I think that is self-evident. I do not understand how we can talk about state aid in the case of the second pension pillar, when, in fact, it is man's own money, simply put together from two different sources. Where's the country? The state only may be helping people plan, but this is not what we are talking about. I do not understand how the second pillar, even in the most optimistic scenario, guarantees a decent living. I've seen all these charts, and it's a long way from living up to dignity. Consequently, its current form of system does not work. The thing is, we're talking about a lot of money. When we talk about the other pillar of one person, it's relatively small money, but when we talk about what's accumulated in these funds, it's a lot of money. I understand that pension fund managers and insurance company managers are potentially losing out on this reform. And I totally agree that you have to stand up for these people. Banks, pension funds and insurance companies are essential for the normal development of society. But this is not the whole of society. I also understand the wish of colleagues on the left to increase taxes. In essence, this compulsory second pillar is a tax, but if you want to increase taxes, the state can play the benevolent uncle who redistributes human money. It's perfectly normal, too. It is not normal, however, that the two things are together, that it is as if bankers and insurance companies managers are the ones who hurt the heart most for a poor pensioner. All these banks, pension funds, insurance companies work with profits and that is normal, but they work with profits precisely to a large extent at the expense of future pensioners. Similarly, public service is not a guarantee of dignified living. Perhaps the best proof of the necessity of this law is the talk that has been heard in this Chamber. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U303	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U304	I mean, what are we talking about? That this law is very good, but bad people, this 7%-supported Fatherland is now going to implement it. Bad people! But the law itself is great and the system is great. And what did we hear in the hall? A worthy colleague, Toomas Kivimägi, said that he did not join this great second pillar, but he would have known that money could be taken out of it, then he would have joined. Therefore, this second pillar will only become good if we adopt this law. About the same story was said today by an excellent colleague, Annely Akkermann. That, yeah, people would have joined that second pillar if you knew this was going to happen. Unlike many people here I'm convinced we're all honest people. You're not convinced? [[Says that to somebody laughing.]] We are honest people who advocate different ideologies, different weather views. My weather view is conservatively liberal. I believe in freedom, although many times here today, there was a bad speech about freedom. And we all vote according to our conscience. I am voting in favour of this bill. And now for the last, perhaps not relevant comment. Recently, Estonia has developed a strange tendency to evaluate everything that is happening by Truth and Justice, and especially not by the work, but by this film. In fact, these interpretations are mostly, I speak as a literary scholar, very simplified, sometimes completely wrong. What, then, does this permit the release of the second pillar? That Andres and Krõõt, my colleague Saar, may still be working themselves to death. Andres is like a positive example: Work killed his first wife and beat another woman. Excellent! Yeah, let him keep collecting. Will he be happy? Let's see. But then again, maybe Pearu wants to take the money out. Well, we're not gonna stop Andres from collecting, but Pear has his rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U305	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U306	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I will, however, dwell a little bit on how the Riigikogu prepared the Committee on Constitutional Affairs before taking up the vote. And as the law says, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has a very important role to play if the President has sent the law back to the Riigikogu to decide what to do. And to give an overview of how much this substantive debate was, I will give you a little enlightenment. First of all, Presidential Decision No 551, paragraph 1. I'm sorry! First of all, Paul Keres made a fabulous report to us in the Commission. Everyone got to listen to what Keres said. But now from the so-called debate on the same decision 551. There was no specific debate on point 1. Perhaps one of the relatively general issues of Puustusmaa, the chairman of the committee, may be classified under this point. However, for example, this draft, which was incorporated in the Commission decision yesterday, was not discussed. This must explain why such a decision was made, and I understand that this justification will also be there today if the Riigikogu decides not to amend this law and send it back to the President. This will be the basis for the view that instead of a pension, there should be EUR 221 in subsistence support for the purpose of living and that people should be able to cope with it. This is not what we really discussed in the Commission. But basically, this design says it. What did the President say in his decision to point 2? There really were two questions, one from Mr Kiisler and the other from Mr Pevkur. And they concerned who owns the shares. There was no question or comment on paragraph 3 of the President's decision. And just like that, there was no discussion of point 4 and no discussion of points 5 and 6. At first, it was tried to say in the Commission that this draft, which is saying all of this and which will probably be the basis for the decision to be taken soon in this Chamber, somehow reflects our committee's debate, although this debate was not there. That we put it there at the beginning of the protocol, tried to sell it somehow. Luckily, it finally went down as a design. In short, there was actually no substantive debate in the Commission and, in my opinion, there has also been no very substantive debate in this Chamber, too, I am thinking of these points of the decision. I do not know, in that case, to say that we have assessed the President's observations in substance, we cannot. If you think about what's going on in Estonia, what's going on in the world, I think there's something to worry about. Yesterday, the Minister of Finance on television said that we have already started the economic crisis. Respectables, think that if this law ever comes into force, people can take out the money they've collected. But the worst prediction can come true: the money taken out during the economic crisis is not used to invest and secure its future, but to alleviate its current concerns, to save the moment's bad situation. In short, we are doing a disservice to all the people who do it, and also to the entire country. I call on you to support the idea that we should reopen this law, correct all errors and also hold a substantive debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U307	Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U308	Honorable Chairman! Honourable colleagues! I am pleased that many of my fellow Members spoke with a good word about my speeches and my affairs. I am particularly pleased that they all stressed that I, as well as the other actors involved in this reform, had good intentions. That was nice to hear. Of course, it is my opinion that it is unreasonable to leave the law on mandatory funded pension reform as it is, i.e. to adopt the law on mandatory funded pension reform unchanged. I recall a few moments in its history to remind you of its principles. We were faced with the task of creating a pension system which is fundamentally different from the Soviet system. At the time, these aspects were that this system should not depend on policies, should be self-regulatory and be linked to people's work, not on working time, but on work. Our current pension arrangements have a working life. We were very opposed to careers as a vessel. We found that the basis should be the income earned by the work done. On this point, I must be honest with you, we did not agree with our partners in this government, and so the compromise was that the pension system would start to take into account compulsory funded pensions on the one hand and the basic pension of the state, which is essentially based on retirement. At the beginning of the future process, a struggle was started to ensure that this base would be as large as possible. I would be honest to say that at the time, the so-called 'our side', we and the Fatherland, had the sense that this base should be as small as possible and that the funded pension should be as large as possible. There is also a nuance, which is why it is now lamented that this system made little money. Indeed, the amount of money collected as a funded pension has been very small, and there is no way to want this method of collection to be very profitable. So we got into this argument. Our honourable socialist partners, with the intensive support of the Centre Party, fought for the base. So far, this is the base that can be increased at all times and can build electoral campaigns, one of the reasons why the desire to change the current pension arrangements went on. I would now say that we should not support the adoption of the law without amendment. We should, however, discuss the amendment of the legislation in force in substance and the amendment of the current pension scheme. I can clearly see this aspect that maybe we should think about how to increase the share of funded pension. One very important issue that has been the subject of a great deal of attention here today in this whole debate is the voluntary or compulsory nature of the collection. It was indeed under discussion at the time, too, so that perhaps we would not introduce any public pension system at all. It was true that it was a very radical idea that the state had nothing to do with this, that everyone was signing their pension insurance contract. Insurance companies were very interested in this; they were very keen to promote it all the time. However, the government at the time found it too much. Although some of us were in favour of very radical liberal views, it was concluded that this was already going too far and that there still had to be some sort of mandatory element in the game when such a system was built up. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to ask for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U309	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U310	In this sense, the question of whether collection is compulsory or voluntary is a very long one. Let's say, if we decide to raise excises or lower excises, it's a very fast-returned decision. The pension system is a project with a very long-term impact and therefore very sudden changes are very risky at all. The reason why countries have still chosen a certain system of mandatoryity is that this risk, which remains as in the future, can be very high for future generations. And therefore, in those countries where there is no state pension insurance, the law applies that if you go to work, you must have a pension insurance certificate. You must have that insurance. This means that the mandatory element still exists in any case. And, well, if you ask who owns the money and where that obligation is, in the end, social tax is also the same, and all taxes are the same, which must be accepted, in any case, by a citizen's serious desire by the national legislator. So in this sense, this system cannot be quite voluntary. And now that we think that this system must be, there is, on the one hand, a desire for it to be political and that every government can change it, and, on the other hand, a desire for the system to be self-regulatory and to function according to the economic contribution of the people and the work done. That is how we came to decide to make the system that still exists. And I don't think it makes sense to change that basically. The compulsory funded pension should still be maintained as part of the scheme. How it's gonna make more money is a question of its own. My opinion is that this part should increase. However, other approaches may also be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U311	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U312	Ladies and gentlemen, I call on all of you to support the adoption of this law without amendment. I can assure you that all the discussions that have taken place here in the Riigikogu have, after all, been very substantive in the end. The debate on this draft has been very long before the President decided to refer it back to Parliament. And now, once again, we have discussed this bill on different sides. I really call on the opposition not to act as a 'common front', but to find the courage to think independently and to vote very responsibly. This bill is not ideal at all. If the Fatherland party alone, or I myself, could have drawn up this bill alone, it would certainly be somewhat different. This is a compromise between the various parties. The opinions of the various experts have been taken into account here, including by letter from the Chancellor of Justice, several deadlines have been changed. It is a collective creation common to the various parties, which has certainly improved during the procedure. I do not agree with the statements made by the opposition ambassadors here today: that as interested parties are financial experts, the people of financial institutions are experts in this legal dispute, but lawyers, independent lawyers are not regarded as experts in this area of justice. Well, that's something science fictional. Or similarly, the call for us not to proceed from the reality around us, not from the practice, but from the forecasts. Well, that's even greater madness. Let's not do that! Let us continue to take into account the practice, let us take into account the real situation, what has happened over 18 years. And what have we done? Today's situation is that 42% of the people in the second pillar have 6% of the money. A very simple conclusion can be drawn from this: today's system will not solve future pension problems for people on low incomes; this is not the solution for them. It is true that they do not have much to lose in the face of different crises either. Their expectations are low. If a large part of this money burns up during different economic crises, they have almost nothing to lose. But yes, for them, for most people, this system does not solve the problem of future pensions. We also know that 20% of people own almost two thirds of this money. 2008/2009. The 2008 financial crisis ate 25% of the funds' assets. This means that the high-wage earners are sensitive to the financial crisis and they are losing a lot. Look at what is already happening in the financial markets! In the long run, they too are losers. High-wage earners will also not benefit from this current second pillar pension system. If we had freedom and the opportunity to allocate this 4% additional to the Social Fund and pay out for pensions, today's pensions would be higher. So today's pensioners are also losers of the current system. And the taxpayers too. In the case of taxpayers, we ask how this is possible. Unbelievable, but it's possible, it's today's practice. It's today's practice! We have established a law that 4% contributes to the so-called state, but in fact, this money goes to the second pillar of the calculation of individual people's social tax, with a low rate of return. I'm asking for three more minutes too!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U313	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U314	Taxpayers will also lose out as a result. So who are the winners? The winners are only financial institutions. So, ladies and gentlemen, friends, let us be very serious. Current practice is the best experience we have to build on, not projections. These forecasts have also been made by Eesti Pank, which forecasts the future, but it cannot and does not want to analyse what has actually happened. Therefore, I have once again a request to all of you: we will adopt this law! I do not approve of the call that some coalition ambassadors said in their speeches: it is self-evident that the Supreme Court must necessarily decide on this matter. This is, in fact, an invitation to the President to not declare this law, but to send it to the Supreme Court. Of course, if the President is internally convinced that there is a contradiction with the Constitution or that there is a major violation, then the President has the right and duty to do so. But when we call for legal decisions to be taken in this political struggle on the basis of our political positions, it is not quite reasonable and correct. And that is not a call in the spirit of the Constitution either. So let the president make his decision with his best knowledge. We know the president doesn't have a legal advisor, and that's what law firms do for him, but let them do it. I do not think it is a sin if we involve various experts. That is what the government has done. And if today there was a complaint that I didn't know who was represented by a lawyer named Keres, I'll explain that he was representing the initiator. This was an entirely honest and open relationship, which he also announced at the committee meeting. He's got a contract with the Ministry of Finance. He's a representative of the initiators. The beginning has been the Government of the Republic. So let this question be answered here too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U315	Maris Lauri, please! Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U316	Ladies and gentlemen, Today it has been said that the dismantling of the pension system is bad. I am deeply convinced of this and, contrary to the call from the previous speaker, I call for a vote in favour of us finally discussing this law in substance as well. There has not really been a substantive debate. I fully understand that we have different concepts. These can and must be. we are in different political parties. And that's why we're in different political parties, because we have different ideas about things in certain places. But the truth must be revealed in the debate. This debate and discussion, unfortunately, have not really been there. In the Committee on Finance, the opposition argued and, as we have heard today, also in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the opposition argued; the coalition was largely silent. He's mostly been quiet in this hall. When people remain silent, I understand that they have nothing to say. And if they have nothing to say, what is it? Consequently, they have no objections. A debate cannot be held unless a debate is held. So we haven't had this debate, and I dare say that the coalition is so insecure in its claims that it doesn't even dare to hold a debate. Otherwise, you would have told me. You would have tried to talk us out of it, but you didn't. We just heard to my great amazement that we haven't analyzed what errors are in the current system. It's been analyzed! They have been referred to and have also been corrected if necessary, and proposals have also been made to improve them. There were some improvements to this draft, too, and the opposition has twice tabled a draft to improve the system. But that's not what I wanted. There are certain disputed places, but there is no wish to argue about it, nor is there any wish to argue that, suddenly, there is a contradiction with the Constitution, but there is simply no wish to listen. Your faith can be very sure, and this is where I could really say that your determination will honor you, but that is all. It is extremely sad for me that we as members of the Riigikogu are making an effort, and here I speak on our behalf, even though I do not really feel guilty about it, as if it were for the Riigikogu to gradually reduce and get the sign 'Yes, we are a rubber stamp'. Why would I say that? The treatment of this draft, but the treatment of some other issues, has repeatedly confirmed this. The Commission's views both in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs came from unknown sources. Yes, we can listen to different opinions of lawyers, lawyers, many who represent different parties, but we should still put our positions together ourselves, even if we are not able to formulate them precisely immediately. We've done it so far, but not this time. This text, the so-called position that was imposed, is still written in extremely bad Estonian. It's so horrible that I don't know... I would have been embarrassed to call it the position of the Riigikogu or the position of a committee. Another topic: a reference to the family law. This is not a mistake that can be corrected in the way that the President of the Riigikogu sends a message to the Riigikogu to correct it. This is the way to correct places where a letter is left out of the word or the wrong letter is accidentally printed. We're in the Riigikogu. I have repeatedly made amendments to the law over five years: three readings, discussions, discussions, where a comma had to be changed, where communication words had to be replaced, but now a fundamental change has to be made. Yes, it came in by mistake, but such mistakes have always been corrected by the amendment of the law. Is it really going to be that someone somewhere finds that oh, we wanted to say something else, and sends a letter to the State Gazette to fix it, we had another idea. I don't know. I understand that for some people, parliamentarianism is not the right and worthwhile thing. I have a feeling that's not the case with EKRE. Your chairman has insulted the members of the Riigikogu right here in the Riigikogu, said very badly about them, acted condescendingly. But I hope you've thought it wouldn't be polite. I could assume that the Centre Party would like more of this authoritarian power, in which case someone will tell you how to do it. Many of you believe that what is happening now in Putin-Russia is right. But I really do not understand in any way how the Fatherland is prepared to twist itself in order to stand up for its principles, no matter what I think of these principles, by starting to twist the meaning of the Constitution, to fill the points with things that suit them. Are all roads and opportunities really allowed to achieve their goals? Yes, there are people like this, and there have probably been situations like this before, but do you have to repeat such things? Today maybe it's time to remember one more thing. A silent era arose because they were silent that they were allowed to bend laws in some personal interest. And that's to live well, not to survive. But for me, the question is, good coalition ambassadors, ladies and gentlemen: will you keep quiet? If you really want to carry out your business, we will have a real debate, a real debate on this draft! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U317	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U318	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief. A colleague who spoke before Maris spoke of winners and losers. He pointed out that the losers were low earners, for whom very little money was collected in the second pillar. I'm saying low-paid people aren't losers, they're winners. Eesti Pank's analysis has pointed out that for a very large number of people in Estonia, the second pillar is the only savings, especially for low-paid people who cannot save or cannot save from their wages every day. And if it weren't for the savings, then there wouldn't be the money today that the Fatherland promises to distribute in its election promise. If we didn't have the money collected in the second pillar, there would be nothing to distribute. The losers are also not senior earners, who really have more money in the second pillar. As Siim said before, the second pillar is built up considering how much someone's income is. And losers are not in a situation where the market is falling and there are difficult times like this. It is the second pillar that provides an opportunity for the funds not to be expelled at a bad time, not to panic. Funds are able to buy more securities on the market in difficult times and actually increase their return in the long run. The stock markets have been clearly on the positive side throughout history. What, though, is involved in releasing the second pillar? That's what brings him more losers. People with lower incomes do not tend to save, as I said. They will not have the savings that the second pillar offers them today and what is their only savings. And it is in times of crisis that people lose, as we have now, when there is panic in the markets when people worry about their health and the health of their loved ones. And then they see that money burns in the second pillar or funds and they rush to take it out because the stock markets are red. They withdraw money when the value is lowest, because the funds have to sell their assets cheaply, and they use the money to solve their current problems. Maybe the loss is double: you're selling your property cheaply and you're using it when it's hard for you, but you don't have that money for retirement. I also call for a number of previous speakers: any ambassador could think with his head and vote according to his conscience, not on the basis of the opinion of the lawyers paid for by the Government of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U319	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U320	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, it is not possible to vote in favour of this law. There have been different thoughts here today, I am not going to repeat them, but on a few more important aspects, however, I would like to dwell on. First of all, it is quite clear that no matter how many people leave the second pillar, the entire pension system will lose money and, of course, it will affect future pensions. In fact, we need to raise even more money for future pensions than has been the case so far. This law does not add any additional money to the pension system. This law will in no way solve the problems that are urgently needed today. On the contrary, it further weakens the existing pension system. Retirement requires monthly income. The risk of poverty for our elderly is the highest in the European Union. Current social tax receipts alone and other tax revenues, which are added to the first pillar every year, are not enough to ensure a better quality of life at retirement age. This is also confirmed very clearly by the practice of other countries. By making the second pillar optional, it will become similar to the current third pillar. But as we know, voluntary collection into the third pillar is far from what is necessary. Here was a statement Yes, indeed, the collection time has not been long enough. Secondly, people's incomes, especially years ago, have not been excessive. Now they have grown and the deposits are growing. Thirdly, the funds were subject to restrictions on investment for a long time. The previous composition of the Riigikogu relaxed these restrictions and these measures have already had an effect. The President paid very much attention to many of the cripples here. I would like to bring out a barricade here, which I feel myself as a member of the second pillar. It is that placing the cost of leaving funds on unit-holders in pension funds disproportionately affects one of the fundamental rights of the people who remain in the second pillar, i.e. the fundamental right of ownership. There are many aspects to these slings. The government's lawyer, Paul Keres, reportedly said that the barricade really does exist, but it is not intense and these risks have been grounded. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U321	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U322	I had a very simple question: how these risks have been mitigated. Well, it was said that this law gives pension funds the possibility to borrow a larger amount of loans to ensure that these payments are made if necessary. I had a very simple question that taking out a loan would bring more responsibilities. Borrowing is a cost, even if interest is low, interest is to be paid. The borrowing relates to contract fees and other costs, the cost of the bond issue, etc. I did not get an answer to that in the Commission, and here, too, the representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs spoke a very insane talk about something that the Foundation would take out a loan and then continue to lend the same loan to companies. This answer was a confirmation that the risks had not been mitigated. And it can actually be said that the barriers to the ownership of those remaining in that second pillar, the unit-holders, are intense and that the provisions for mitigating them are not sufficient. But that's just one example. There are alarmingly many legal and substantive problems. Once again, it is not possible to vote in favour of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U323	Does Mr. Lotman have a request for a reply? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U324	For the sake of the stenogram, I note that when I said that the second pillar did not guarantee a dignified retirement, I did not base myself on today's situation. This was also stated in the most optimistic forecasts that sounded in this Chamber when the issue of important national importance was discussed, and also in those that our fellow Members put forward here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U325	Does Siim Kisler have a request for a reply?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U326	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to say that in the discussions here, the compulsory nature of funded pension has also been praised by those members of the Riigikogu who themselves have not joined the second pillar. They had this opportunity, but now they do not want to allow this opportunity to other people in Estonia. Among these members of the Riigikogu are also very good economic experts who knowingly calculated and calculated that it would not be useful for them personally to join the compulsory funded pension. I believe that such members of the Riigikogu do not have the moral right to impose compulsory collection on other people in Estonia. Other people may be as smart as they are, maybe as well calculating, making investments and collecting pensions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U327	Thank you. It seems that there is no further wish for negotiation. Ladies and gentlemen, During this almost five-hour discussion, there have been calls for a vote against and a vote in favour. And I now have the opportunity to call on you to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the re-adoption of the Act on funded pensions sent back by the President of the Republic to the Riigikogu and, in this connection, of the Act amending other laws (the mandatory pension reform). Please take a stand and vote. 52 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the Act unchanged, 43 against and no abstentions. The law has been adopted again in its unaltered state.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U328	We now come to the second point on today's agenda, the first reading of the draft law amending the radiation law and state fees law, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Rene Koka, Minister of the Environment, waitress of the speaker's desk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U329	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! You have received a draft law amending the radiation law and state fees law prepared by the Ministry of the Environment. The draft clarifies the provisions of the radiation law to ensure that they comply with the Council of the European Union Directive laying down basic safety standards for protection against the dangers arising from exposure to ionising radiation. The amendments to the radiation law relating to the transposition of the Directive entered into force on 6 July 2018, when the analysis of the Articles of the Directive and the corresponding provisions of Estonian law revealed the need to clarify some of the provisions in order to avoid possible divergent interpretations. The draft also clarifies the provisions of the radiation law relating to the audit of the assessment of the radiation safety framework of the International Atomic Energy Agency in Estonia in 2016 and the proposals made during the ex-post audit in March 2019 to ensure compliance with international standards. The amendments specify the terms 'exceptional level', 'emergency worker', 'public exposure','reference level'. The law shall include a prohibition on the provision of property or other benefits to workers for the non-compliance with radiation safety requirements and an obligation to analyse the exceedance of radiation doses. The Radiation Act is supplemented by the provisions on the recognition of radiation licences issued by the State Contracting the European Economic Area and a new mandate is introduced to introduce a regulation by the Minister of the Environment to exempt and exempt radionuclide-containing materials from the requirements of the Radiation Act. The draft amends the State Fees Act and aligns the provisions on the State Charges of the Radiation Authorisation with the amendments to the Radiation Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2020, which will no longer constitute an environmental permit within the meaning of the General Part of the Environmental Code Act. Thus, the term "radiation permit' is replaced by "radiation permit'. In summary, the draft amendments to the Radiological Act and the State Fees Act are largely of a specification nature. There are no significant additional obligations or administrative burdens to be imposed on the holders of a radiation licence and on the Environmental Board. This is the regulation of the measures to be implemented in practice in the legislation, making the requirements more specific and understandable to all parties alike. Thus, there is a positive impact on the organisation and workload of the administrative body and on the external relations of the country, in particular as a result of the recognition of radiation licences issued in the country of the European Economic Area and due to compliance with the requirements of the members of the European Union and of the International Atomic Energy Agency. The amendment ensures compliance with the requirements of the radiation law with the Directive and international standards on radiation protection and as a result ensures better radiation safety for the population and the exposed workers. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U330	Thank you. And now, ladies and gentlemen, you will be able to put together two oral questions for the rapporteurs. The duration of the question is one minute. I see there are no questions. Thank you, Minister. Next, I would like to ask Heiki Kranich, member of the Committee on the Environment, to co-rapporteur here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U331	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Environment Committee discussed this draft law at its meeting on 17 February. Peeter Ernits, Heiki Kranich, Igor Kravtšenko, Siim Pohlak, Üllar Saaremäe and Mart Võrguship took part. Marily Jaska, adviser to the ambient air and radiation department of the Ministry of the Environment, and Marko Lelov, lawyer at the Legal Department of the Ministry of the Environment, were invited. I am not going to rephrase the content of the draft law; the Minister gave a very good overview of it. The members of the Environment Committee raised some questions related to the text of the new version of the two Regulations to be merged under this Act. Marily Jaska told us that it was still being improved, and at the moment the draft regulation is a little rough. As a member of the Committee on the Environment, I very much hope that the text of this proposed regulation will also reach our committee after the necessary amendments have been made. After the debate, the Commission concluded that it should be proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 11 March, the decision was consensual and that the first reading should be closed. The Commission also decided to appoint me as the representative of the commission for the discussion of this draft. Due to the law in force, the deadline for proposed amendments is 10 days. I hope that all members of the Riigikogu will have an interest in proposing amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-11_U332	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you either. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 144. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 25 March. Thank you very much, everyone. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 19.04 a.m.
