ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U1	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, we will begin the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. It is possible to start by handing over drafts and enquiries. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I will report an inquiry to Finance Minister Martin Helme. We want to know how Martin Helme, as the general meeting of Eesti Energia, looks at the things that Eesti Energia is doing, and what are his plans given that Eesti Energia has divided one large parcel of 4.2 MW solar park in Paldiski into 84 smaller pieces and asks for support from small producers. What does the Minister of Finance think about such a scheme for a state enterprise? If other large manufacturers use their own money to build large solar parks or participate in less supply, Eesti Energia will push the hand deep into the taxpayer's wallet and withdraw 2.6 million euros in 12 years. The second question also concerns the same subject: what would the Minister of Finance want to do in a situation where Eesti Energia is applying for renewable energy support for Tootsi wind farm according to the old scheme? This could cost taxpayers around EUR 300 million over a period of 12 years. What does the country intend to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U3	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to transfer drafts and enquiries. I have adopted one inquiry on behalf of the Bureau and the Bureau will process it in accordance with all laws and good practices. Incoming check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U4	89 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 12.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U5	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic to set up an expert COVID-19 Analysis Committee 220. I recall, ladies and gentlemen, the procedure for dealing with this item. Attention! To begin with, the presentation of the draft representative shall be up to 20 minutes, then the presentation of the representative of the commission shall be up to 20 minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to each of the two rapporteurs. Representatives of the political groups and committees will be heard during the negotiations. No amendments to the draft were tabled; a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of the draft. Let's go to the first item on today's agenda. The first item on the agenda is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic to set up an expert COVID-19 analysis committee. Please waitress Signe Riisalo, member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 2 March of this year, a meeting of the Social Affairs Committee took place where we first took an interest and listened to officials from different authorities to find out what the situation is in the world and what the risks are for Estonia in the context of the COVID-19 virus. We have heard that there is no great risk for Estonia, and even if the disease arrives here, we are ready to have sufficient supplies, our hospitals and doctors are able to receive patients. Two weeks later, a state of emergency was announced. Seven months later, we're gonna have to wait for the heart to shake if there's gonna be another wave. Have we looked back and thought about what we experienced in the spring, what we did during the summer, in order to be better prepared in the autumn, and by what point are we smarter today? Scientists tell us, also advising the Government of the Republic, that this disease will not go away and that it is the task of people to learn to live with it. This is a metropolitan disease and older people are particularly vulnerable. In order for us to be better prepared to fight the further spread of the COVID-19 virus, to cope with it, as well as other possible crises, the Reform Party Group is proposing to the government to set up a panel of experts to analyse lessons and what has been done well. And what was done well was done. We all know that the statistics have been good for Estonia, however. There have not been too many illnesss, fortunately there have not been too many deaths. But we know there was confusion, and there were mistakes. It is possible to approach this learning and looking back in two ways. When we talk about large organisations or even small nursing homes, there are two approaches: internal evaluation and external evaluation. What we are talking about in this draft decision is, in fact, an internal evaluation of our activities for the government. Perhaps the government, together with independent experts, must analyse what was done and what could have been done differently, where there were errors in practice and where there were errors in legislation. We have heard many times from this speaker, but also in briefing from ministers, how the country of Estonia must be governed more on the basis of science and knowledge. Today we have significantly more both science and knowledge about this disease. Today we also have this experience, which actually enriches us, which did not work so well. What we did not do well were certainly communication issues that were extremely confusing during the whole period of emergency and are, in fact, also now extremely confusing in the autumn. We all remember the mixed messages that were given in the spring, until the debate between the Health Board and family doctors about the age of testing people first and foremost. We also know that the reason was not that we wanted to test every person who was ill or with symptoms, but that it was a lack of both tests and protective equipment for masks, gloves, protective suits and hats in the health field. As a result, we were unable to contain the lesions as we are now, in the autumn. Now we have been smarter and we have been able to keep the lesions quiet, as shown by variable statistics. If the rate of disease rises at a rapid rate due to the rise in the number of monsters, it will be able to be silenced within a few weeks. Tartu was a good example. In fact, we see a similar trend in Tallinn, Harjumaa. In addition to communication and lack of various tests and protective equipment, which areas are still worrying? It is certainly important to think well about the way in which leadership took place, whether the roles were in place, who did what and why. Because in the middle of an emergency, we rushed to change the law. We changed the law on the prevention and control of communicable diseases, and we also changed the law on the emergency. These are the two main laws that regulate the roles of the various parties in this crisis situation. All of us will probably remember when Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise was here, who said that there was no work done on this in terms of legislation. These roles must be re-examined, these rights must also be expressly conferred on the various parties in the law, so that each party understands what its role is, when and why. Obviously, that is not the case today. We know that the government has promised to bring these laws before the Riigikogu as amended. Do you also apply a targeted analysis of the experience to date? I hope so. In addition to communication and governance, we also need to look at sector by sector when we are talking about health care, education, welfare and definitely the economy. In all these areas, we learned painful lessons. The rapid reactions and events of Saaremaa Hospital in Saaremaa are well remembered. But so far we have not heard of the experience of Saaremaa's parish elder, hospital manager, as well as nursing director, individual doctors, which could have been done differently, what were the points of pain and what went well. What went well is also very important. Caretakers. We have heard sad stories about nursing homes where hospitals banned nurses from cross-using workers. What happened to that? For example, in Alutaguse County, the nursing home was completely deprived of any medical support. Only those working in social welfare care care cared for older patients who were infected. What else happened in nursing homes? The ambulance only took away those elderly people who really needed intensive care, not those who were ill. That means we left the nursing homes alone and without help. This is certainly one lesson in which we have reason to map out concerns, problems and better behaviour. Education. Yes, we know that it was uncomfortable for children to stay home and the parents had to work at home at the same time, worry that the children would be fed and also trained. It was hard, but we survived that period. However, this was considerably more difficult for parents whose children have special educational needs or are also disabled. And those parents who did not have specific skills, special skills taught by teachers and support specialists at university, had to teach their children at home. Whether and how much these children have been educated, such as they need, is still unclear. Schools closed, children went home, local authorities were not prepared to provide support services to these families and children. Economics. We know that some sectors in the economy suffered more than others, but everyone got hit. Now the question is whether we can analyze and decipher why we closed something, why we left something open and why we are restricting something to this day. Do these activities actually have the content and result we really hope for? Take, for example, air routes. The less direct flights and air routes, the more closed we are in our vulnerable situation. This should not in the long term be the interest of Estonian people and entrepreneurs. Another area that needs to be analysed and understood very significantly is any possible restrictions on the movement and freedom of people. This is also an area that the Chancellor of Justice has repeatedly highlighted as a risk. Despite the spread of the disease, despite crises and emergencies, we cannot compromise fundamental human rights. This is certainly an issue that needs to be discussed. If we think about who is responsible for everything that happened, what is happening now and what will happen in the future also during different crises, hopefully not during emergencies, then we are still looking at the government and the Prime Minister. That is why we want the Riigikogu to support the proposal of the Reform Party, so that the government really brings together independent experts, appreciates what happened, also involves the knowledge that we have come from scientists and in practice today. We need to look at communication, governance, the roles of the parties, mistakes and successes in practice, as well as the needs associated with changes to the law. Thank you. I'm waiting for questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U7	Thank you. Indeed, you have many questions. Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U8	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! About a year ago, we started working on a draft law such as the National Defence Act in the National Defence Committee. We had very profound disputes with the executive, precisely in the face of the fact that the management of the resolution of crises, as outlined in the Emergency Act and the Emergency Act, does not work in reality. As life has shown, during the outbreak of a pandemic, the management structure for resolving the crisis, as it is in our legal space today, did not work. Consequently, I ask whether such an analysis would also be essential for obtaining a much wider picture and, in the context of the national defence law and, in the same way, the emergency law procedure, perhaps in the context of a new opening.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U9	My answer and conviction is that yes, it is necessary. When we quickly changed the emergency law during an emergency, in fact, the provisions that were desired and adopted were essentially contrary to those previously planned in the national defence law. These things are very deeply connected, and I know that there have been thoughts in the government and the State Chancellery that the Emergency Act and the National Defence Act should be reviewed and amended so that we are really prepared for different crises.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U10	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U11	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! You rightly said in your report that today we know considerably more than the corona era. A number of studies have been carried out that teach us good lessons. Among other things, we know that the corona period had a devastating effect on people's mental health. Secondly, it was particularly difficult to deal with people with special needs, to whom you also referred. This has also been highlighted in the context of Estonia by the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, other similar organisations in Europe. My question is whether, as a member of the Committee on Social Affairs, you have understood whether this experience has been learned from the state. Today we see that in Tallinn, for example, small class students are also pre-emptive to distance learning.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U12	Thank you for your question. That's a real theme raiser. When we talk about students, students with special needs and special educational needs, coming home during an emergency, we know that there is a high risk in some local governments, and in fact the practice in Tallinn that students are once again part-time at home. I have not noticed for a moment this activity, which would have been in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs or also with the social departments, in order to support families and children whose teaching does not mean that you allow him a computer, a quiet space and he is studying independently, but whose teaching is specific, needs special skills and knowledge so that this education can reach him at all. And here's the next risk that educational gaps are growing. We know what this will mean for young people who do not enter the labour market, do not learn what it will bring to health, because the gap between healthy years and life expectancy is also an important health indicator. So, yes, I, as a member of the Committee on Social Affairs, as you asked, have not noticed that it is being dealt with clearly and sufficiently. These issues still need to be dealt with in substance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U13	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! Excellent initiative! It is only a pity to admit that the government itself has not come up with this basic thing. I think they may have been blinded by the fact that they have given the impression that the fight with coronavir has been one big success story. Yeah, if you narrowly take a virus like that, then through lockdown, it's the fastest, most effective way to get it under control. But what is the cost? What's the price? This pair of words has been brought to the agenda by a journalist who has mentioned how many unseen victims there were. I dare say that these invisible victims were thousands of times more than the victims of the COVID. This is confirmed by a study conducted in England, where the number of people experiencing certain symptoms of depression increased twice during lockdown. While it was usually one in ten British problems, during the pandemic, it was one in five British problems. Perhaps my question is what I found today in the title of an article (written by Viljar Arakas, I have not read his story) which he has formulated in a way that I think sums up very well: the main thing is that the corona does not become a mental illness. I don't think that's even an exaggeration. Is it planned to examine how much mortality was due, for example, to the closure of scheduled treatment?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U15	Mental health is certainly a shadow over everything that we have come through, and it is not yet through, if we think about what are absolutely objective indicators such as unemployment, bankruptcies, payment holidays or inability to pay, the associated stress, depression. Yesterday's media coverage informed us that there were 130 suicides in the first eight months, which really isn't what high, we haven't had any crazy growth. But if we look at the Coronal Victims compared to the Coronal Victims, there's 130 very large numbers, and it's still especially drasticly visible in months. It is absolutely necessary to agree that the mental health approach has previously been inadequate in Estonia. We do not have a state-of-the-art mental health strategy in the form that people are actually receiving help, and the current situation, in particular, brought about the need for psycho-social crisis assistance, which I have talked about here before. Because the help that prevents a person from becoming stressed, depressed, is very much involved in crisis management. It has to do with how we inform. Honest, quick communication. Adequate help immediately in the first few weeks for a person who is in trouble or severely affected, lost a loved one, lost a job, went bankrupt. This is actually what helps prevent post-traumatic syndrome, long-term health problems and eventually suicides.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U16	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, There is one such saying that if in repeated situations people behave in the same way, they cannot expect different results. This statement does not specifically apply to this pandemic, because we all hope that it will not come again in such a large number of forms [of the sick]. Wise people learn from what has happened and especially from crises, so it is a sensible draft. But I ask how these independent experts are chosen. Can you say that now?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U18	This cannot be said directly at the moment because, as the draft states, it is the authority of the government to carry out this in-depth assessment of its activities, legislation, practice, governance, roles. We all know very well what is always the problem of a small country, this is a shortage of people. And there's a special shortage of good smart people. I do not exclude at all that the government could involve, for example, management processes or communication to evaluate some other matter more complex, such as the hospital's internal operation, as well as external experts. I'm sure it could help. But we know that we have had an excellent scientific council that has been advising the government from the start of the crisis, which, despite its position, has nevertheless been very impartial. I think that their involvement and the involvement of more Estonian scientists are also sensible and wise. But on the other hand, what could be assisted by the involvement of the scientific community is better organisation of applied research (this is not too good in Estonia). This could give impetus to future really practical applied research, how we organise our lives in government institutions, how we seek solutions to certain problems, and also assess how one or the other solution works or does not work.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U19	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In order to assess quality, it is extremely important to compare with a foreign analogue, which means that, for example, both processes and products can be compared. My question is whether you, in the Committee on Social Affairs or at any other meeting, have assessed the feasibility and feasibility of stopping scheduled treatment. There have been a lot of signals from experts and people in society that this was a mistake, suggesting that those people who needed scheduled treatment were actually left without help and that the damage to health was so great in the sense of society as a whole. Have you discussed this subject? And do you share the view that it was a mistake to interrupt the scheduled treatment?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U21	Thank you for your question. We have not discussed this issue in depth in this particular form in the Committee on Social Affairs. However, this has been the case at the spring Social Affairs Committee meetings, which were three in a week, and once a week the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Health Board had been asked repeatedly and repeatedly in the committee. I would also like to say here that, when the emergency exit strategy document was adopted in spring, there were five sub-documents, an action plan that had to be followed by different ministries, one of them from the Ministry of Social Affairs, and were largely aimed at the health sector. But we do not really know the outcome of these action plans. Some of these have also been asked in the Committee on Social Affairs. When it comes to stopping scheduled treatment, the fear that arose, this ignorance, was a little bit understandable because of unexpected behaviour. Whether this scheduled treatment was held for too long, if anything could have been done, is all the places that should be analysed. We have now heard thoughts from various hospital executives, as well as from the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs, that maybe in medicine for the future, there is a greater share of electronic counselling, electronic visits. For example, in the case of chronic patients, this could work and in the case of some other health problems, but clearly it cannot take over direct contact. As the doctors themselves have said, the color of the skin cannot be estimated through the phone.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U22	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U23	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! An excellent explanation and justification for the need for such a Commission. I would simply point out from another area as an example of the financial sector, where, as a rule, after the financial crises, these reasons and the proposals made as a result of analysis and reasons have also been examined and analysed in the key to legislation, institutional and crisis management. Among other things, Estonia has done so and it has been very useful. As a rule, the countries that have done this have been much more successful and are much better prepared for the next crises. Perhaps you will give advice or reasons to those members of the Riigikogu who may hesitate to consider the need for such a committee? What are the main reasons?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U24	It is not by the legislator to express a wish and to put it into law for the first time that the government is given an obligation to analyse the results of some kind of law or some kind of reform that has been carried out, so as to make the necessary improvements and improvements. In this sense, the practice that the Riigikogu entrusts the government with either through the law or in this case through this draft decision, is neither new nor unprecedented. Such a crisis and an emergency is, of course, a first time for us, and I think it is extremely wise to take advantage of this situation, this opportunity, as well as the amount of knowledge that we have accumulated in a very short period of time, in order to be smarter in the future. I repeat, indeed, Estonia did well too. It is not a question of absolute condemnation of government action or of the activities of the authorities. But we all know there were things we could have done better. And in order for us to do better next time, to do this analysis and these results... The analysis itself doesn't give us anything. The analysis must still end with these recommendations that this regulation, the law, these activities, the roles are organised in a different way. Not everything is a matter of law. There was a great deal of human behavior in this crisis, caused by human fears. But even these human fears can be contained, and the first rule of fear control is knowledge, information.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U25	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U26	Thank you, Vice President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! Each country has been known to behave differently in the framework of the COVID-19 due to its specific characteristics. As far as we know, the work of our ministries and agencies has already been organised in such a way that all activities are regularly analysed on the basis of the situation, decisions are taken, conclusions are drawn. I have a question: why would the new Commission differ from the existing committees that operate differently? What are the specific differences between them? What would they do differently or decide or do differently? At this point, it seems very much that this would be just another unit dealing with duplication.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U27	Thank you for your question. Such a question deeply pleases me because I can come to my previous experience in life. For 26 years I have been a public official, and I have been inside what you have just described, where public authorities analyse, take back views. They do, they do, they do, they do, they do, they do, they do, they do, they do, they do, they do, they do, they do, they do, they do, they do, they do, they This situation we are talking about today is country-wide. We are talking about very different sectors and very different ministries. The analysis of how to deal with the emergency situation and the crisis is not really being carried out. What has been done in both the development and subsequent implementation of this same HOS or emergency law is different from crisis exercises. But once again, these crisis exercises have been quite sectoral. Therefore, I think that the bigger picture, just as Mr Kalle Grünthal asked here at the beginning, and proposed that we go up to the National Defence Act and look at it as a whole, is reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U28	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U29	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I have a few observations and one question. Observations: I think such a committee would certainly be needed and I would be very pleased if it were not only to assess Estonia's experience but to look at what has been done in the world. Because we see now that, for example, we are still arguing about masks. And then we see that countries that have had the most severe restrictions are often the countries with the highest mortality rates, and vice versa. Find the right way there and how to fight the epidemic, it will take a wider picture than Estonia alone. But I have a specific question for you. What do you think we'll see in a few years? Are we going to see below the level of education and knowledge of the children of this year's year who went to school in spring, or do we not see it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U30	Thank you for your question. I will also comment on the first part for a moment, however, and then I will come to the question myself. As I said at the beginning of my presentation, the scientific and knowledge base is very important and we know that Estonia's ability to carry out research compared to the scientific community in the world is significantly lower. A large number of studies, on which our scientists, the scientific council and the government are also based in their decisions, are of foreign origin. Both science and knowledge of how it was handled, comparison with other countries is absolutely and naturally part of this backward and then forward perspective. It's hard to judge whether a drink in education comes down or doesn't come down. It is considerably easier for me to say that some kind of psychological change is likely to occur in our children. We've heard school psychologists talk. The problem is smaller for primary school pupils, for whom home support is more important for learning, this role is greater, and our learning methods are also more common, and standards are those where more family involvement and education for children at home are expected. When we talk about teenagers, it is extremely important for them to be routines. It is routines and rules that help children to cope. It's not imposed from the top, it's a psychological need for children themselves. If parents at home for smaller children were not able to teach enough because of their social or educational background, or because of thinking and values, and if teenagers were excluded because the rules were relaxed and they were not able to organise themselves sufficiently or force learning habits in the new situation, then it is true that in addition to psychological concerns, which may be mitigating, there may also be setbacks in education. What was education's concern still certainly, were schooled and local governments different, was access to the technique, whether there was a computer, tablet, phone, etc. These things were different too. In addition to learning in different languages, there were also study programmes and these things differed. In this sense, the attempt that we have wanted to equalize the children's launch platform through education was certainly a setback.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U31	Tiit Kala, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Based on your report, I have a question with two sides. First of all, why do you think that the scientific council, which advises the government on COVID, is not independent? And second, you claimed that during the COVID emergency, some people had limited constitutional rights. Did you feel that you yourself had limited constitutional rights and the expression?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U33	Thank you for your question. First of all, the first part of the question, which concerns the independence of the Scientific Advisory Board. I have not said that the scientific council is not independent. On the contrary, I very much appreciate their work and their actions, and I very much appreciate their courage, regardless of what the government has decided, to say what they consider right as an expert and a scientist. Therefore, as I said earlier, their continued involvement in the processes is extremely important. As far as human rights are concerned, I do not feel that I personally was limited, but I felt the risk of continuing these trends. If the special situation had lasted longer, there could have been a situation where people cannot sufficiently realise themselves because of the limitations of freedom of movement. Today, when we are no longer in an emergency situation, we know where the restrictions on movement have been indirectly created, once again I come to air connections or to agreements on which incidence rates are allowed or not allowed to travel to one country or another, and whether or not it is necessary to remain in quarantine. But that's a little different. As regards personal freedom, freedom to conduct a business, the risks were quite clearly present, because restrictions were placed on entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U34	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You said a while ago that Kalle Grünthal has made some kind of proposal in this Chamber today. I have to admit, I think this statement is a little misleading because it was made by Kalle Laane.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U36	Oh, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U37	But what's on your mind is the tongue, as they say. My question is perhaps illustrative. Two villages don't get along very well. The people of one village will build their own cultural house, and when the cultural house is almost ready, the people of the neighbouring village who have not visited it will take the decision to go and build a cultural house for them. When you get there, you'll see the house is almost finished. It's exactly the same with this bill. Where does this information come from that such a Commission is not already working, and also from independent professionals?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U38	Thank you. First of all, I owe an apology to two Kalle for confusing them. As regards the fact that such a committee is working, I strongly believe that if the government had convened such an impartial panel of experts, we would all have heard about it, firstly. Secondly, I have also been in contact with various high-level public officials and I know that they are going to meet in order to discuss with each other what has been learned and what is still to be learned. In this sense, I am quite sure that today, in this form, the panel of experts, with a clear mandate to make proposals that are to be made in the same way and which in the future have not been formed in a different way with the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U39	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U40	Honourable Deputy Speaker! Good fellow Commissionman! As far as I am concerned, during the crisis, the government committee acted quite well under the wheel, and neither does our Social Affairs Committee have to praise itself. The scientific council is also doing a pretty good job. In addition, we have institutions such as the Ministry of Social Affairs, Health Board, Medicines Agency, 100 other agencies, government. And if it's really bad, we can always make a new crisis committee. Don't you think it's a nice idea, but doesn't it remind you a little bit of Soviet time when it was decided to do a new Commission for everything that really did nothing?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U41	A brief answer would be that it does not resemble the Soviet era. The longer answer would be that indeed, the crisis committee led by the Prime Minister during the emergency situation was effective, but also made mistakes. Again, I come to what the role distribution was, whether it was optimal and what communication was rather confusing at certain moments of time. As far as the Committee on Social Affairs is concerned, we mostly had three sessions a week. One session was furnished with the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Health Board and other officials. Personally, I was embarrassed. We proposed that we switch to a system where, at the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee on Monday, the officials have clear questions that have been sent from the Social Affairs Committee on Friday. For this, the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Maris Jesse, has thanked us publicly. My second proposal to save officials from the trouble of arriving or sitting in Teams was that these answers could come from officials in writing. We are all illiterate and we can read, but this was not approved by the Commission. Obviously two hours a week during a crisis, during an emergency situation, for those officials who were directly involved in this health crisis, was extremely burdensome. As for the fact that we did a good job in the Committee on Social Affairs and Jüri Ratas did a good job in the government, the crisis committee, and the hospitals did a good job, in fact also teachers through the Teams or other electronic environment did a good job... A lot of people did a really good job trying to get out of it. But this experience is beyond our comprehension. And that's what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U42	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U43	Thank you very much, dear waitress, for a very interesting presentation and for defending the very necessary draft. It is very sympathetic for me that you also touched on the economy in your presentation. The economy was undoubtedly very strongly affected by this crisis. And perhaps more than the corona, the economy was influenced by the measures used to fend off the corona. For example, the closure of sports halls and restaurants, hotels were hit hard by flight restrictions, their customers did not get to Estonia or were not advised to travel. Does it seem to you that this additional budget, which was treated during the summer to boost the economy, invested in construction, which was in crisis during the previous crisis, would have been able to invest in human resources as well? For example, by increasing medical expenditure so that doctors can heal and queues shorten or other similar investments in human capital so that people can restore health, even in spa, even mental health?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U44	Thank you, Annely, for the question. It is very unpopular to say, from this remote station, that I am not very strong in economic matters, but in that sense I still want to say it. I touched too little on the economic issue because this impact on the economy is greater and longer-term, and I think we are just starting to count these concerns or these chicks. Today we get statistics on taxes, unemployment, something else, but the real impact on the economy in the long term, we do not know today. Would [be] have been able to contribute to human possessions? Absolutely could have contributed more to human resources. However, these changes in the state budget adopted during the emergency period were just about 200 million, for example, of which some 97 million were spent during the emergency period (I may be a little wrong with the numbers, but I am sure I have the right orders of size), and there was over 113 million, which, to date, is beyond the budget of the health insurance fund, these amendments to the adopted law did not provide sufficient flexibility. In this sense, as a Riigikogu, we can look in the mirror ourselves, but the result of the things that have been done quickly is a collection of minor and major errors alongside the things that have succeeded. Indeed, labour market measures, wage subsidies and, in fact, now I congratulate the government, also contributed to human resources through support for children with disabilities. But where less resources went, the same set of mental health issues and the local government's ability to really help their people. It could have gone there to help people. The money that was given to the local authorities was to revive the activities, not to contribute to the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U45	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U46	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, A very right initiative, we will certainly support it in the vote. If anyone here complains that why it is so late or why the open door is broken in, all these tests have been done or are being carried out, then indeed, the expectation was that what was done would result in analysis in spring and summer and then be ready for autumn. But, unfortunately, that is not the case. In my statement, I am focusing on this or on the grounds that, in the Committee on Social Affairs, the Minister on my question concerning nursing homes and special care homes, and the impact of the total lockdown or closure of the situation resulting from social, emotional, but also from special diseases, that is not done, has not been done by anyone. It's very nice to have research done in some areas. Then, in the case of this committee, it is said that there are studies here, they are summed up, and we can get a full analysis. The Commission's point is to bring together these different areas in order to see what has been done and what is worth analysing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U47	Yeah, absolutely, that's the point. When I gave various examples of education or care, of both children and older people, the real problem is that the virus went to nursing homes. Irja Lutsar, an expert at the scientific council, says that the greatest risk is the elderly, and as a society, our task is to keep the virus away from the elderly. But we do not know what are the real measures that helped keep [the virus] away from some nursing home, but not the other. What did this nursing home do differently? These are the little things that need to be made clear so that everyone has instructions. I don't think these must be strict rules. But those instructions that help to cope with such a special situation that no nursing home, school, teacher, etc. has ever had before, that's the need, that's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U48	Marek Jürgenson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Personally, I think that the situation in spring has been thoroughly analysed and that there is a significant awareness of it at the moment. However, you have repeatedly praised the activities of the government and the scientific council. My question is whether, in your view, analysing the consequences at this point in time is really wise. Instead, we should look to the future to deal with what comes after the COVID, whether something new is coming. Just how to get out of this crisis. Obviously, the crisis is getting worse. What do you think of the Swedish model that Sweden applied?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U50	Thank you for your question. The classics have said something that we have no view of the future without knowing the past. I dare say that, of course, we must look to the future. But we must not, the emphasis must not look to the future without taking into account and analysing the experiences of the past. That would be a mistake. As for the Swedish experience, I do not have a good answer. Just as no one has a good answer today. We can see the statistics, the slopes of the curves there too, there have been increases and decreases in morbidity and mortality. For me, the greatest expectation in the case of Sweden is that in the end, I do not know whether, in a year or five, we can say, in the example of Swedish experience, that the economy survived, they will come out better in economic terms. That's actually what I'm hoping for. This will show others who closed their country that closing is not the solution. And there is no solution because the closure will only cause the disease to disappear temporarily.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U51	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U52	Thank you. As far as the economy is concerned, one country alone does not maintain the economy. In this sense, the Swedish experience is not conclusively estimable ex post. I would encourage this draft to increase ambition and form a Riigikogu commission that will interrogate these independent experts and find out what could have been done better. It's obvious that the spring bang actually went into the bush. We're talking about one death too much, and we have a choice between man and money. The goose fat story went to the bush. The Commission should clarify why warnings of planned treatment, schools, border closures were not taken into account. This could be the role of the Riigikogu. But where does the claim that we did well in this crisis come from? I'm thinking of regionalisation here, economically and virologically. Were we really in any way distinguished from the region here in the organizational, medical or economic sense of society?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U53	Thank you for your question. Again, I'm not going into the economy. I would like to comment on the following two proposals and one question. First of all, is it possible to be a committee? Yes, there may be a committee. But as I said at the beginning, there are two completely different methods for evaluating: the logic of internal evaluation and the logic of external evaluation. This desire, which I am expressing here today on behalf of our group, is the logic of the internal evaluation. Perhaps they look at what has been done, critically assess, bring out the plus-minus and achieve the result that needs to be changed, what to do differently. In the case of external evaluation, a second view is indeed possible, and we still have this opportunity, with which the Riigikogu proposal can proceed if it emerges. What was the third thing you asked for? Come on. [[Jürgen Ligi will specify the floor.]] What is the basis on which it went well? I don't want to be ungrateful in the sense that there were things that were done well, and I've mentioned these things here. But when we look at the statistics on illness, deaths and hospital admissions, we were not the worst on a regional basis either. Perhaps it is actually possible to say something positive, and if there is a reason, I will not hesitate to say it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U54	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In my opinion, this is also a very important initiative and a necessary Commission to draw conclusions. There have been many times in the hall today that various ministries, authorities, I dare to guess, even local governments to kindergartens and schools, have all taken a look back inside. Looking at what's gone well, what's wrong, and what I want to do differently or the same way when the other wave gets carried away. What is your sense of feeling, is it not a criticism of those who have already made their conclusions and have done something right or wrong? After all, it could also be a support and a direction indicator, which would confirm that these conclusions are correct in the event of a reflection of action, so it could go on, it could be done differently. Could it be such a toolbox and a toolbox from ministry to municipality and kindergarten?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U56	Thank you. That is a very correct question and observation. Indeed, there are a number of very good organisations and institutions that have taken an internal look at it, learned from it and made changes in their organisation of work. This knowledge, gathered from these different types of organisations or institutions, would need to be highlighted in the context of both pros and cons and changes. Absolutely agree. I recognise all the different bodies that have done this. Very well done, very modern approach to leadership. It is rather worrying that I have already mentioned it once today, that we had an exit strategy from the emergency situation and that it had to be followed by action plans that I have not been able to familiarise myself with, although I have been interested. I have never been able to get to know the implementation and results of these action plans. That's why I have the conviction that there hasn't been enough consideration of how we came through the emergency situation and how we should go from here to live with the virus.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U57	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U58	Thank you, good manager. Good Signe, thank you for a very thorough presentation. This presentation was so good that I would say with no sarcasm, if I had to make my decision on this report, there would be no doubt about a positive decision. On the other hand, it is again that the report is, like, going through something so that we should reform our entire health care system. It was so wide-ranging, these analyses, these examples, we even got to suicide, about 130 suicides, and I was now wondering if it had anything to do with the corona, the government's activities or the rules of the liberal economy. I didn't understand. Since I'm a hardened lawyer, I'm not just based on a report, but I'm still based on an explanatory statement. And the question comes from an explanatory statement. One sentence is central here, which says: 'The creation of the Commission is necessary because some officials directly managing the crisis have been fired or left at their own request, and the experience gained must be mapped... ' Would you mind commenting on that sentence? Or what it means?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U59	I will comment on the first two points and then on the question. As regards the reform of the health system as a whole, I personally believe that this is necessary, but I do not think that this should happen within this framework. As far as mental health and the example of suicides are concerned, it is very clearly linked to COVID. Right at the beginning of the virus, specialists in the field said it was a risk, because in such a closed situation, in a situation of job loss, in a situation of teaching children at home, in the fear of disease, in the loss of loved ones, people's mental health will be damaged. There is a clear link here, and there are also places to learn how to manage the maintenance of people's mental health in a crisis. As regards the question of collecting experience from people who are no longer working today, but were directly involved in solving problems, the answer is: yes, their experience is also valuable. I'm not telling you about these people now, but what I'm saying is that every experience is a valuable experience and a bad experience is valuable. It is these bad things that we can learn more from.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U60	Each member of the Riigikogu shall have the opportunity to ask a question to each rapporteur during the discussion of this item. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U61	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I am also of the opinion that, in the wake of any changed situations, crises, a thorough insight should be carried out to assess how the next time could be better. I also think that the changed situation tested all the different areas in the country, but also people, for example, social groups. The government's behavior was different here. For example, the government can be commended for the way he communicated information in sign language to the hearing. At the same time, however, during the Coronary period, the hearing impaired were very distressed by the fact that they were not able to get information by reading masks. These details are all unsolved. I'm asking you what level of detail you think this is supposed to be. Hopefully not like we wanted better, but it went like it did, but it might be a little bit more thorough.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U62	Thank you, George! That was a very good example of the communication you brought. In the same way, they were very operational and were able to make information available to hearing impaired people, but not to everyone. Those who were under-heard and wanted to read their lips were still inaccessible to them. It's clearly a place to study. And the level of detail in my vision is still quite detailed. The Mart Võrguship has asked its question here, mentioning that many authorities have taken up this insight and have already introduced changes. After all, the interest is that different types of institutions can take over one experience to one: which was good in another institution and went well, and avoid what went badly. In this sense, it must be quite detailed and, in the end, it must probably become sector-specific. A situation such as that in the case of nursing homes where medical staff were completely absent due to a ban on cross-use of workers must be avoided.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U63	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U64	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Thank you very much for your warm and human presentation. I fully share your emotions, but I do not share your thoughts. In this report, I would share two things. First of all, a description of the problem that I thought was correct. Secondly, a solution that I thought was bad and dangerous. Think about it. The government will set up a Commission. The Centre Party brings its experts, The Fatherland brings its experts, The EKRE brings its experts. Would you be pleased with such a commission? The second danger is that if the government takes some kind of step, the results of which may not be good, then [they say]: but we are not responsible, the Commission is responsible. This would be a very dangerous step from a democratic society to a technocratic society, which I would like to avoid in any case. Unfortunately, I've run out of time. I'd like to ask you something else, but I can't.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U65	Thank you. I understand that observation. Personally, I do not think of these parties as cynical enough to do and act like this. This virus and crises are a common concern of the people, not a concern of the political coalition. That's one. Secondly, the scientific council, which has been next to the government and the crisis committee, has done so so far and hopefully will continue to do so honestly, building on its best knowledge, expertise and expertise. Absolutely no hesitation in their honesty and sincerity. In the same way, I do not doubt the honesty, sincerity and competence of any expert used by the government, because every person who works in his or her area of life will hopefully do so with the best intentions. I believe in people.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U66	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U67	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You can ask questions, but the answer, if not right, can't get you on the right track. So, in your report, there was quite a perceived lack of truth. We have gained more rights as citizens during the COVID-19 crisis: for example, a face mask can be worn at political demonstrations. But my question is, is the second wave over? I am concluding this at the moment from public transport. If it was impossible for Atko's buses to enter the front door a week ago, now it's possible. And I see less and less masks. Are the members of the Riigikogu at this point in the information lock and do they not know that the second wave is over? As someone who knows the Ministry of Social Affairs, you may be able to say more information.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U68	Right now, I'm still here with you in exactly the same position, in the same information field. But I can say that, as early as the summer, Mrs. Irja Lutsar confirmed that she is not convinced that the second wave will come in the same form. However, he confirmed that it is likely that more illness will come on the fall side. That's exactly what happened. Is this another wave in the sense that there will be a repeat of spring, no one has promised us that, and no one can promise us that. Our job is to keep this disease away from humans or not to infect others. To this end, the Health Board has made a very clear recommendation, which has been confirmed today by a representative of the Scientific Advisory Board, that it is reasonable to wear masks in public places on an indicative basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U69	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U70	Thank you for the floor. Dear waitress, I see that your draft report has been submitted on 6 July this year. We're already getting close to the middle of October. Given the extraordinary situation in which we are, has the Social Affairs Committee really had such a tight work plan that it has not been possible to bring this issue to the Grand Hall of the Riigikogu before: we are only discussing this now, in mid-October?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U71	Thank you for your question. When we tabled this draft as a group, we hoped to read the first conclusions and results, for example, on today's date or to get acquainted with them. Unfortunately, that was not the case. As far as the Social Committee is concerned, I can say that things will be put on the agenda on a proposal from the Chairman of the Committee. The other parties, the Members of the Commission, have the right and opportunity to make proposals on what we are doing. A good example has been the bill in the drawer for more than a year, which is the law on psychiatric assistance and the provision of access to psychiatric services to persons with reduced capacity, to minors among them, without the consent of the guardian. With regard to this draft, of course, it can be said that this summer has come up, but indeed, the question is justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U72	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Listening to the questions from the floor, it seems to me that we have already started this analysis, the questions are showing this. At the same time, I believe that activities in this area are, in fact, regularly analysed, systematically reviewed and corrected. There's no such stagnation. But my experience tells me that this type of analysis can and must first and foremost be carried out by those who have participated in the process because they are familiar with things. Maybe I'd only involve a moderator from outside or a team leader who would be impartial and try to follow the game. Experts coming from outside, unfortunately they're taking a lot of time, there's inevitably a noise of information, different interpretations, a lot of explanations, negotiations, discourses. My question is whether such a separate Commission is appropriate for the use of the resource. I'm not talking about money here, I'm thinking about time and human resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U74	Thanks a lot, Merry! You said the right things. It is precisely those people who must be involved in this process, who have been hand-in-hand, who themselves have experienced this crisis from one position or another, including working directly with the client. That's right. But they're not the ones to write it down. Someone has to write it up, and we want to give it to the government through experts.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U75	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U76	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm no longer on the Social Affairs Committee, which is why I don't know, you're better informed about these things. Have these experiences and analyses been carried out somewhere and are they now available in one place?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U77	The short answer would be no. In the longer term, it could be said that on quite a number of other issues, different ministries have had the task of carrying out analyses in a narrower area, and they are not always available. In other words, they have not been made, or at least have not been done for the time allowed. When Kert Kingo said, and Merry Aart also pointed out that they were doing and constantly, they don't always do and not always do everything. And it is certainly not done on such a large scale, covering so many areas and with a very clear aim: how to come through the crisis. Not how to restructure health care, but how to come through the crisis so that we are all healthier.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U78	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I would like to ask Tõnis Möldri, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, to serve as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 21 September, the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic to form an expert COVID-19 Analysis Committee'. Maris Jesse, Deputy Secretary of State for Health at the Ministry of Social Affairs, was invited to attend. As the previous speaker mentioned, we were briefed in the committee on the content of the draft. I think the debate that was here before gave a pretty good idea of what the purpose of this draft decision is. We also heard the thoughts of the representative of the Government of the Republic and the Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Vice Chancellor said that as early as May, such official back-looking analyses of what went well, what was bad surprises, what lessons were learned and what was concluded from it. The State Chancellery also conducted interviews with all the institutions involved, on which the analysis is based to improve the management structure of the autumn crisis compared to the spring, as well as to improve other activities. Perhaps such a lesson has been tried to take with us the most of the spring process. The members of the Commission had a wide range of opinions. There were those who said that this draft decision was very necessary. Any analysis of what spring brought and what could be done better in the autumn is absolutely correct. It was pointed out that the draft was reasonable, but there were also some questions and other points. It was also pointed out that the problem with the draft may be that we are, as if, entrusting the government with the task of exercising control over itself. There were also some questions, for example: who could be specific persons who would be part of this committee or working group. It has continued to be said here that these should be independent people, experts, but they could certainly be from the area of health care, but why not, for example, from the area of education and communication, because definitely the communication side was one of the most important places in the spring, and perhaps even bottlenecks. Once again, it was noted that it was important to carry out any mid-term review. In the previous debate, too, when the initiator of the draft report made his presentation, two questions arose, where perhaps today we are able to assess the situation and where perhaps the most appropriate steps were not taken. One concerning nursing homes and the other concerning educational establishments, including educational establishments for pupils with special needs. Indeed, the Ministry acknowledges that these were places that needed more analysis, more summaries, and also says that if any institution There was also a debate in the Commission on the fact that this is not just a narrow topic for the Committee on Social Affairs, and these issues and situations in crisis situations are much wider than the health perspective alone. The committee also decided to send the draft to all other Riigikogu committees for information and they have been able to provide feedback. No amendments were received within the deadline for amendments. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to propose a draft to be put on the plenary agenda by 13 October, to propose a final vote on the draft and to appoint Tõnis Mölder, Chairman of the Commission as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U80	Thank you, dear waitress. Your presentation was so understandable and thorough that there are no questions from the members of the Riigikogu for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Indrek Saar, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U81	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is certainly important to congratulate the Reform Party Group on the initiative they have taken in presenting this draft law, because in a situation where the government tends to get confused in front of its eyes and is no longer able to deal with what should be dealt with in an acute crisis, it is Parliament's business to recall what is actually happening outside. This bill has been presented at the beginning of July and we are now in mid-October. When we think about what has happened in the meantime, there is indeed a question that the government coalition has actually spent the beginning of its summer and autumn. I understand that spring was exhausting for everyone, certainly also for the government, certainly also for the Committee on Social Affairs, who in this crisis situation and with often contradictory information had to make decisions, had to act quickly. However, in a situation where all health experts said that the pandemic is not over, the second wave is likely to come, even the third or fourth, we have not finally defeated the virus, it is strange that we are now, in the middle of October, talking about the basic things that should have been done months ago. What was the result? Well, there are different versions. Perhaps it is true that the energy of the government and of the coalition went to self-grooming, how well the first wave of the crisis was managed, which could be discussed for a long time, what was then really and how well the government coalition did it. But the inevitably fact is that we were not prepared by autumn, and we saw that the closer we actually got to the autumn, the fact that it was not possible to understand all August what the guidelines of the government and the Ministry of Education are, which are their knowledge of how it is best to prepare for the beginning of the new school year. We asked for it over and over again. The answers were confusing. Finally, at the last moment before the school year began, it was said that school leaders and schoolkeepers would decide for themselves. Then the schoolkeepers made their own decisions. Then the government began to criticize what the schoolkeepers decided. Weekly discussions were held on legal nuances concerning masks rather than recommending people to wear masks, instead of making social campaigns and explaining how important it is to keep distance in autumn as well, discussed legal nuances and did not do much to prevent a situation in which someone should be banned or ordered. Not to mention the codes of conduct for employers, to which employees have repeatedly pointed out, this is one of the important components in preventing the crisis from getting worse. For example, even such a simple thing where the city of Tallinn, as a relatively prosperous municipality, made an important observation, among other things: brought thermal cameras to schools and very quickly it became clear that the health situation in schools has not been so good for a long time or never, as some school leaders said. Perhaps this crisis money that we are planning for this budget could give all the municipalities this money? Because, as you can see, it really disciplines parents and children not to go to school sick. Well, you can't get over or around... I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U82	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U83	... not only social democrats, but also health experts who have come to terms with this is one of the key factors of how people behave, what decision they take when they are sick and whether they go to work or not. Last week, the Health Board made it clear that this is one of the main risk factors. But so far, the government has been unable to do anything to make it easier for people to make the decision that I am not going to work, so there has been no help in compensating for the first days of illness. We're still waiting for that decision. Indeed, it is strange what the government is actually dealing with in the middle of a pandemic in the midst of a crisis. Is it really the bullying of farmers and foreign students, which has somehow become the chorus of this summer, or is it the Committee on the Financing of Political Parties, which needed to be abolished during the hottest crisis, or is it now where the government's energy is going? The government is dealing with a referendum on marriage. Indeed, finding out about this affects people's health, life and the state of our economy most in the midst of the crisis. This is, of course, a rhetorical question. I very much hope that Parliament, and for this, of course, will also want to do so by the government coalition in Parliament, which is also using its right to remind the government of what the situation is now, and will do so, among other things, by adopting today the draft decision that we are discussing at the moment. Perhaps it will help somewhat to get the focus of the government and government on the right line. Thank you for your attention. The Social Democrats certainly support this draft decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U84	Thank you. The political groups have no further wish for negotiations, so the negotiations are closed. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 220 on the draft, and we are going to the final vote. A majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of the draft. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic to form a draft of the expert COVID-19 Analysis Committee 220. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U85	41 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 25 against, no abstentions. The draft was not supported and the decision was not taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U86	Today's second item is the second reading of the draft railway law initiated by the Government of the Republic and Jüri Jaanson, member of the Economic Commission as rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U87	Ladies and gentlemen, Let me introduce the procedure between the first and second reading of the draft rail law. Reminder: the Government initiated the draft on 1 June, with the first reading on 15 June. The reason for initiating the draft was the need to transpose the two directives of the European Parliament and the Council of Europe, one on the trans-European rail interoperability and the other on railway safety. The Committee on Economic Affairs informed the parties concerned of the procedure, all of whom were concerned. I will read them for the sake of the verbatim: AS Eesti Raudtee, AS Operail, AS Eesti Linirongid, Southwestern Railway AS, Southwestern Railway Infrastructure AS, which I think is no longer present, AS E.R.S., Logistics and Transit Association MTÜ, Tallinn University of Applied Sciences, Enefiti Mines AS, AS Sillamäe Sadam and AS Tallinna Sadam. AS Eesti Raudtee gave an opinion on the draft and Estonian Liner Trains and Operail responded to the proposals made. His proposals on the draft and his views on the opinions received were also presented by the initiator Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. There was a lot of work and a great deal of thanks to the Economic Commission's advisor Piia Schults, who worked very thoroughly on this draft. This is a whole new text, because the old version of the railway law has already been so written and complicated that it was very difficult or virtually impossible to write in the amendments to the directives and other amendments. Thus, the Ministry developed a new draft, which was developed in a very, very thorough manner by the advisor. The draft passed the translation between the two readings. There have been many technical and linguistic changes, which do not change the substance of the draft. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the preparation of the draft at its meeting on 29 September. Representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications also participated. The other parties did not consider it necessary to attend the meeting. The Commission accepted the proposals made by the initiators of the draft and the wording of the proposals received in accordance with the procedure, comprising 13 amendments. A little of the amendments. There are 13 amendments, all of which received consensus from the Commission. On the substance, the most important and important amendments are Nos 8 and 11. Number 8 is about derogations from the European Union Regulation, which are currently closed. These exceptions are 20, 22 and 23 concerning assistance and information for disabled persons at train stations. This amendment brings to the law a penalty rate of 100 fine units if disabled people are not assisted. Number 11 brings changes to the building code. Here are some changes, such as the requirements of the railway law, or one very fundamental change, that the design conditions for railway installations will no longer be issued by local authorities, but... how it was now... Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority. A little of Amendment 1, which seems to be very substantial, contains a lot of wording and clarification. It is the introduction of wording terms from the paragraph of the terms into the content if they have been used only in one or two cases. There are also many drafting amendments to the text as a whole, re-routing of references and others that make the text of the draft text more readable and understandable. In this regard, too, the Commission did not have very many questions. It was a couple. When the questions of the Members of the Commission were examined, it seemed unusual for the members of the Commission to see that, although much work has been done on the drafting of the whole text, some 80 amendments would begin to amend the text. I think doing it again will just make it better. The commission proposed that the draft be put on the agenda for the second reading by 13 October, which is now, and that the second reading should be closed. When the second reading is completed, the final vote will be held on 15 October, which will be the day after tomorrow. All the decisions were consensual. I would also like to add that, as a result of the corona crisis, the adoption of these directives by the European Commission was postponed. They have to be adopted with the current speed by the end of this month. In this respect, we are fully on schedule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-13_U88	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. We will also examine together the proposals that have been put forward. Amendment 1 tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, commission: take full account. Amendment 2, also proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs, lead committee: take full account. Amendment 3, proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs, the position of the lead committee is to take full account of. Amendment 4, in favour of the Economic Commission, the position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. Amendment 5, as well as the lead committee, should be taken fully into account. Amendment 6, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 7, proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs, the position of the lead committee is to take full account of. Amendment 8, as proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs, should be fully taken into account. Amendment 9, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 10, author of the Committee on Economic Affairs, to take full account. Amendment 11, proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs, the position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. Amendment 12, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, the position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. And last amendment, 13, as well as the position of the Committee on Economic Affairs, of the lead committee: take full account. The amendments have been examined, the position of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 201. Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes the second reading, and that concludes today's sitting. Thank you. See you tomorrow!
