ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the Monday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, the delivery of drafts and enquiries. Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U2	Honourable Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic today initiates six draft laws and submits a draft decision of the Riigikogu. First, the draft law amending the Natural Gas Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented in Taavi Aas, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the Law on Health and Safety at Work and other laws. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. Thirdly, the (renewed) draft Act on ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on co-production in film. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing and other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Martin Helme. Fifthly, the organic farming law and the law amending plant reproductive and plant variety rights law. Arvo Aller, the Minister of Rural Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when processing this bill in the Riigikogu. Sixthly, the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure (implementation of the Regulation on mutual recognition of freezing orders and confiscation orders). In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg. Seventhly, the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Accepting the State's long-term development strategy 'Estonia 2035'. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Prime Minister Jüri Ratas when processing this draft decision of the Riigikogu. All these drafts have been forwarded to the Riigikogu via the Bill Information System. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U3	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted seven drafts. Does Katri Raig have a procedural question? No, it's not. My big screen didn't show it, I'm so sorry. But please, Katri Raik, the chair is yours!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U4	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 32 members of the Estonian Reform Party and the Social Democratic Party, I have an inquiry to report to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. The inquiry concerns support measures in the tourism sector and is motivated by the fact that one in five people who have lost their jobs during the COVID crisis is from the tourism sector. In our opinion, the grants for tourism are unfairly low in the state budget for next year. We ask what measures the government intends to take to support the tourism sector so that both domestic tourism and foreign tourism will be preserved in the post-viral period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U5	Thank you. Peter Ernitsa has his hand up. Is there a procedural question? Please! Peter Ernitsa, please, the microphone! Ah! Peter Ernits' card doesn't work and the microphone doesn't work the same way. [[Rumble in the hall.]] Thank you. I realized that Peter Ernits' card was working now, but I noticed my card wasn't working. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Anyway, our I.T.A. has been alerted to this, and they're about to show up, and this problem will be solved. On a small screen, I can see if anyone has a voice or a voice request. But it seems that there is no further wish to pass on the drafts and enquiries. Therefore, on behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted seven drafts and one inquiry, and the Bureau will decide on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. I also have a message for you, ladies and gentlemen. Today, after the plenary session, there will be a meeting in this Chamber to set up an Estonian history support group. The caller is Jaak White. Now we're going to the presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U6	I'm sorry, it's gonna take a little while. But it seems the problem has been solved. 90 Members of the Riigikogu have registered as present and there are no 11. Even I showed up on the screen. We will proceed with the updating and approval of the agenda. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas has expressed his wish to make a political statement at today's Riigikogu meeting regarding the transfer of the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Accepting the State's long-term development strategy 'Estonia 2035'. On the basis of Article 56 (1) (9) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act, I have added to the agenda of today's sitting and added the political statement of Prime Minister Jüri Ratas as the first item on the agenda. Does Siim Kallas have a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U7	Mr. Chairman! The Prime Minister is, of course, always welcome if he wishes to tell the Riigikogu something. But the question of whether we could ask him questions was left a little open today. As we did not agree on this in the Bureau, or as the e-mails seemed to us, because we do not have a consensus, I propose that one question be put to the Prime Minister. If this proposal does not receive the support of the other members of the board, then we should probably vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U8	Thank you. We really had that deal with the Prime Minister. His wish was not to ask questions. In fact, it is a common practice, similar to the transfer of the state budget when the Prime Minister went to hand it over. We will have to deal with this strategy in a completely normal manner, like everyone else, and then it will be possible to ask questions and discuss this issue. Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U9	Honorable Chairman! I must say that I was at the origin of this tradition when we decided that the Prime Minister would make a statement and then there would be a real budget. It was in the budget. And when we dealt with the budget, we agreed so, and so did the Prime Minister, he was able to present his report and the questions were asked when the Minister of Finance was on the board. But we shouldn't go with it every time. Although it came out of nowhere today, I still think that members of the Riigikogu could have the opportunity to ask questions. We can also agree that it will take 20 minutes, which we have also practiced. We've done the same thing and we've done the other way around.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U10	Thank you. I'll take that proposal into account, but first there's the question of Taavi Clothing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U11	Thank you. The look in the book of the law makes justice easier, I guess that's a saying, right? And if we look at what the comments of the Home and Working Procedures Act say, it is quite clearly described here that unless the Bureau and, in this case, the Prime Minister agree otherwise, the members of the Riigikogu will be able to ask questions. I understand the messages from my colleague, Mr Kallas, as well as from you, that the Bureau has not agreed on this issue, even with the Prime Minister. Therefore, by law, we have an opportunity to ask. And if we think about the importance of this particular issue, you will agree with me that if we want the Prime Minister to play any role in the discussion of the strategic documents of the Estonian state with the parliament, we could give each other the opportunity to ask and answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U12	Thank you. Yes, the members of the Riigikogu certainly have questions for the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister, however, expressed his wish that these questions should not be asked this time. Since we did not have a consensus decision in the board, as Siim Kallas said, it is possible to put this issue to the vote in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, as Siim Kallas also proposed. I think it would probably be the most sensible thing if we voted on this issue now. But there are more questions, apparently procedural. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U13	Thank you. It would look very bad if the Prime Minister refused to answer questions on such an important document. We would just vote on it somehow between the coalition and the opposition. At all, this has come out of nowhere very abruptly, we did not know at all that such a topic was appearing. We would have assumed that there was some respect for the subject and there was a debate. But tell me, how do you decide on the board? You're kind of in my uniform saying that you're the one who added to the agenda. Is it discussed by the board, or is it the privilege of the chairman to determine both the agenda and the procedures that we are currently debating? Is this where you decide?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U14	On the basis of subsections 56 (1) (9) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act, I made such a decision: to supplement today's agenda with a political statement by the Prime Minister, as he wished. That's why it came here. And, as you mentioned, the wish to make a statement really came today. We didn't know that either. But I am sure the Prime Minister will be happy to answer all the questions on this issue from now on. Tarmo Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U15	Yeah, thanks! I have a procedural question about what procedure we are currently deciding. Are we going to decide whether to approve this week's schedule? Or the other procedure that the Prime Minister is performing? I understand that a number of procedural questions have arisen in connection with this other procedure, such as asking questions. However, when Jürgen Ligi just said that this item actually came unexpectedly, I realise that there have been no questions prepared. So, should we take a break now and do we have to deal with this intermission procedure too? Or are we gonna have a nice day on Monday without a saw?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U16	Thank you. Of course, it's always good to get the job started without a saw. We are not voting at all whether the Prime Minister can make his political statement here or not. In accordance with the proposal of the honourable Bureau Member, Mr Kallas, we will first put to the vote whether or not we are asking questions. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Please tell me, did the Prime Minister categorically express himself by sending a letter to the Bureau or expressing his wish that he did not wish to respond, or did he express that he did not wish to respond if possible? It seems a little incredible that the Prime Minister does not want to start a discussion with Parliament on such an important strategic document.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U18	Thank you. I can read this request: 'Honourable President of the Riigikogu! As directed by § 155 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, at the session of the Riigikogu on 12 October this year, I would like to make a political statement regarding the presentation of the state's long-term development strategy 'Estonia 2035' to the Riigikogu for a duration of up to 15 minutes. If possible, I would like to consider my presence as the first item on the agenda. I do not consider it necessary to ask questions and answer them whenever possible. ' Since the Prime Minister wanted to deal with this as the first item, I think that his working schedule is so fast and urgent that he would like to make this introduction to the Riigikogu as soon as possible. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U19	Thank you. Well, I will not comment on the fact that the Prime Minister, in your opinion, wants to be brought to an end as soon as possible with a strategy that should set Estonia's development trends up to 2035 and whether it is appropriate or not. I also reject whether it is appropriate to send less than an hour in advance information that such a debate should take place in the Riigikogu today. This is, of course, very questionable and shows that the Prime Minister does not take seriously that the Estonian state has strategic plans for a little longer. But I'm asking specifically about legal. In his letter, the Prime Minister said that, if possible, he would not consider the questions necessary. When I look at the law governing our work, I do not see this possibility, because § 155 (4) says: 'A member of the Riigikogu may ask an official who has spoken with a statement, a report or an overview, unless the Executive Board of the Riigikogu and the official have agreed otherwise. " As far as I know, there is no agreement between the board and the official, in this case the Prime Minister, so I read from the law that there is no way to leave the questions unanswered. The law is quite clear here, and I would ask you to consult legal advisers first before you answer this question, because it is a matter of principle and we are creating a precedent.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U20	Thank you. It was certainly not the prime minister's aim to get this thing out of the way as soon as possible, as you mentioned, but the aim was to transfer this development plan to the Riigikogu as soon as possible and present it to the Riigikogu. And as for the question of how to deal, if there is no consensus on the board, we will put it to the vote here in the Riigikogu Chamber and the Riigikogu will decide. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U21	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! I would have the first question, after this conversation or discussion, that what is there for Jüri Ratas to hide why he doesn't want to answer us? But that's not what I'm gonna ask, I'd rather support Javier. Taavi quite rightly read out of the Home and Working Procedures Act that if you don't agree with each other, there can actually no longer be any procedure in this Chamber. We want to do something right now that the law doesn't. Since you didn't agree not to ask questions, then we can ask questions. That's it. That's the end of the discussion. Why are we picking up something that the law doesn't deal with at all and giving us no opportunity for?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U22	Thank you. Indeed, we do not debate, we hand this decision to the honourable members of the Riigikogu. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Unlike Taavi's Clothes and other colleagues, I do not think that this is such an important thing to go on here for a very long time. On the contrary, I think it is a deeply meaningless piece of paper. Alongside this, the next item, the accession to the Convention establishing the European Centre for Medium-Term Weather Forecasts, seems to be an issue that could be discussed in substance. As a result, I have a question for the Bureau: did the Bureau examine the paper that was handed over? I read it. In my opinion, the Prime Minister could also be released from this political statement and allowed to do something really important for the country and the people of Estonia. Did the board consider the idea of politely rejecting this request and recommending the Prime Minister to do something reasonable?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U24	Thank you. Unlike you, I don't think it's a deeply meaningless piece of paper. Indeed, the Bureau has not yet had the opportunity to examine it. We don't know what's in it, but that's what we're looking forward to the Prime Minister's presentation. Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U25	Thank you. As other members of the Riigikogu have already referred to the Home and Working Procedures Act, the Home and Working Procedures Act does not provide the possibility, among other things, of changing the law to the large Chamber of the Riigikogu with one procedural vote. Therefore, since there is a pretty high risk that the vote on this issue is in breach of the current law, I have a suggestion for you: please call the members of the management board together, get more legal advisers and please avoid creating a situation where the Riigikogu is about to break the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U26	Thank you. With this vote, we will not change any laws. That's what we're gonna finish and sort out the discussion that was left behind in the board. After the Prime Minister has made his statement, all political groups will be able to make speeches. Then there will be negotiations and a discussion. The Prime Minister will also be able to take part in the negotiations if he so wishes. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U27	Thank you, good manager. I have listened to this debate here now and one thing has still not been understood: did the Prime Minister explain to you why he does not want to answer the questions? Was it during the debate on why he didn't want to answer the questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U28	No, it wasn't. Thank you. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U29	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Are you saying that you're just going by the law? We don't change the law, but we're gonna sneak by the law and vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U30	No, I didn't. Not at all. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U31	Thank you, Mr President. I have a constructive suggestion that we no longer have to argue for a long time about how to proceed and that the agenda can be implemented and the work started. Perhaps you'll question the Prime Minister. I think the Prime Minister has now realised that the first request that he did not want to answer questions is not acceptable to the Riigikogu and that members of the Riigikogu have a great interest in asking questions. Perhaps it will be easier for the Prime Minister to say that, of course, I will be happy to answer your questions, he will change his request and we will be able to proceed with this point nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U32	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U33	Thank you! It is said that we have these procedures here, and there are such free interpretations of home and working procedures, well we know that if there are two lawyers, there are three opinions. I think there might be more to the opinions on how to interpret this law. Maybe I didn't understand Taavi's thinking that unless the board agreed... But if someone on the board simply blocked the agreement, how can a large hall deal with it if there is no consensual decision in the board? Do all decisions of the Governing Board need to be consensual when they concern extraordinary political statements? Is it stoned somewhere in the Rules of Procedure that the Bureau's decision must also be consensual when it comes to political speech? If so, please refer to a specific section!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U34	Thank you. It is a common practice that this is done when such statements are handed over. This has been the case in the past, for example in the case of the transfer of the state budget. So there is nothing unprecedented about not always asking questions. But I can also read this part of the Bureau's organisation, § 16 (4): 'The Board of the Riigikogu may take a decision only after hearing the opinion of all its members. The decision of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu shall be taken by consensus of the members present. If consensus is not reached, the member of the Riigikogu's board may put the matter to a vote outside the agenda at the Riigikogu meeting. " That is what the honorable Siim Kallas proposed. I'm very supportive of that. And when the questions run out, we're going to the vote. Mart Võrguship, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U35	Thank you. These questions would probably end if you answered them. I asked you to ask the Prime Minister if he had changed his position when he heard that a large number of members of the Riigikogu wanted to ask him questions. You didn't answer my question, you didn't ask him. I ask, President of the Riigikogu, if you would be so kind as to ask the Prime Minister if he is ready to answer questions from members of the Riigikogu after his political statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U36	Thank you. I understand your question perfectly, but unfortunately it is not a procedural question. Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U37	I'm just pointing out for the sake of the verbatim. Such a precedent is quite dangerous, as we can expect that the coalition's votes will be able to create situations where the Prime Minister or any other official will not answer the questions if they so wish. This is in fact not in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. The comment of the Act says: 'If an official appears before the Riigikogu with a report or overview arising from the Constitution or the Law, it is not in accordance with the idea of the Home and Working Procedures Act to deprive members of the possibility of asking. 'In this case, it is at all questionable whether this is a political statement when a strategy paper is presented. In my opinion, this comes directly from the law and from the duties of the Prime Minister. But I don't want to prolong this argument. I'm just gonna mark for the future that this isn't good practice. We all know the coalition has votes together, but from now on, we'll think twice before we do it again.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U38	Looks like there's no more procedural questions. Before we complete and confirm our agenda, I will put this issue to the vote, which has now been the subject of discussion. Does Siim Pohlak have his hand up?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U39	President of the sitting! Why don't we take a five-minute break and make this quite clear?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U40	Yeah. If this is a group proposal, please take a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U41	Ladies and gentlemen, Let's move on to the hearing. During the break, in consultation with the Prime Minister, and speaking, it became clear that the Prime Minister would be very pleased to answer the questions of our fellow Members. So we've solved this and we're going to keep going. With the amendments previously discussed, I will vote on the approval of the 4th working week agenda of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U42	There are 80 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, 1 against and 1 abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U43	Today's first item is the political statement by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas regarding the handing over of the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Estonia's long-term development strategy 'Estonia 2035'. I'll introduce you to the procedure. First, the political statement of the Prime Minister is up to 15 minutes and then all members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to ask one question for one minute. Then we will open negotiations, during which the representatives of the political groups may speak from the speaker for five plus three minutes, as usual or in place for two minutes. Speaking chair, Prime Minister, please. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U44	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I think it is very welcome that there is such a serious and passionate debate already at the handover of 'Estonia 2035' in the Riigikogu, a great desire to come along, to join in. This is commendable in all respects, and I welcome this enthusiasm from the Riigikogu. The Government of the Republic will present to you the country's long-term development strategy 'Estonia 2035' for discussion and decision. This strategy has been drawn up for more than two years now. Nearly 17,000 people have contributed to this. It has been produced with the help of 17,000 people, because Estonia's long-term view definitely deserves such a broad-based debate. During these two years, nearly 30 workshops have taken place across Estonia, where many other Estonian people have been able to express their opinion in addition to politicians, officials and representative organisations in the field. The process of drawing up 'Estonia 2035' has been more open than usual for policy documents and I hope that this kind of cooperation will become a new norm in the future. A safe and human-friendly Estonian state is a common goal for everyone. 'Estonia 2035' is in all respects the basis for our decisions for the next 15 years. It is a strategy that supports cooperation between the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu, which combines the principles of strategic planning and policy making in all areas as well as the principles of funding. 'Estonia 2035' is integrated into the economic coordination of the European Semester. This is the basis for planning the European Union's resources and gives direction to the implementation of global sustainable development goals in Estonia. The aim of the development strategy is for Estonia to be a democratic safe state in the future, ensuring the viability of the Estonian language, nationality and culture. Members of the Riigikogu! As part of the production of 'Estonia 2035', when we conducted national opinion collections, where people participated both online and, for example, in libraries when filling out forms, we were assured that an Estonian person wants to live in a country that is safe, a country that is free, natural, open and diverse, human-centred. It is these wishes that are formulated as the fundamental principles and strategic goals of 'Estonia 2035', which we can always bear in mind when making decisions. Even if we feel that the effects of some decisions are short - lived, or if there is very little time to decide, unexpected situations still need to be faced, it is important to keep a long view in mind. 'Estonia 2035' sets five equally important strategic goals. Smart, active and healthy people live in Estonia. Estonian society is caring, cooperative and open. Estonia is a living environment that takes into account everyone's needs, is safe and is of high quality. The Estonian economy is strong, innovative and responsible. Estonia is an innovative, reliable and human-centred country. It makes no sense for us to overlook these goals in increasing the vitality of the Estonian nation, language and culture and promoting a democratic and secure state. It would also be difficult to argue that we want to live in a country where people are active, a caring society and a living environment that takes into account everyone's needs, and an innovative economy and a human-centred government. These are not just big words, however, but really goals to keep in mind when making decisions, both in the government and here in the honourable Riigikogu. Estonia is a free and secure country, but, looking in the mirror, we have to admit that, for example, in terms of health-friendly living environment solutions and people's risk behaviour, we still have a lot to do to ensure that the gap between our healthy lives and life expectancy is not more than 20 years. We must also be ready to take advantage of the opportunities offered by an ageing society. In 15 years' time, the honourable Riigikogu, according to current information, one in four Estonian residents will be older than 65 years old. And that is precisely what offers opportunities if, at the right time, right now, we think about our choices in such a way that they take into account the future, that our choices not only lead us to the future, but also lead us there prepared and confidently. An Estonian person deserves a competitive country with a knowledge-based society and economy. Good fellow countrymen! Of course, 'Estonia 2035' will not solve all the problems we face in the next 15 years. But I am convinced that the principles agreed in this development strategy will help us, as people and as a country, to remain ourselves even in the most difficult situations. These forward-looking goals will help us turn the challenges into opportunities. I would like to wish you, honourable MPs, a thoughtful and weighty debate on 'Estonia 2035'. For my part, I promise that the Government of the Republic will not leave 'Estonia 2035' to dust on the shelf, but will take into account the Estonian people's goals as gathered in its development strategy. Our proposal is that every minister gives you, the honourable Riigikogu, an overview of how progress has been made in reaching the 'Estonia 2035' targets in his field once a year. As Prime Minister, I share with you my best knowledge of our progress as well as of the issues to be helped, both after the state's budgetary strategy and the presentation of the state budget to the honourable Riigikogu. The "Estonia 2035" strategy is implemented primarily through sectoral development plans and programmes. It can also be used as a basis for strategic planning by local government units and public, non-public and private organisations. Good Riigikogu! I very much hope that your debate on 'Estonia 2035' will be meaningful. Estonia deserves to have thoughts written into its strategy describing the future, which are the most constructive, considerate of all the people of Estonia, and which strengthen the influence of our state in the wider world. Thank you, I am ready to answer your questions and wish you a good debate in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U45	Thank you, Prime Minister. You also have questions, as expected. First Urmas asks Kruuse. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! We in the Committee on Rural Affairs are currently in the middle of a debate on the development plan for agriculture and fisheries. I assume that these strategies are interlinked, that the objectives are the same. We are forced to take a certain break in this debate because, in the summer, in my opinion, the government clearly changed labour policy. Please tell me if this development strategy has taken such a matter into account. You yourself referred very nicely to the fact that, on the one hand, we are aging. This also means that there may be fewer Estonian speakers in the future. But we really want those who speak Estonian to come to Estonia all over the world and contribute to the prosperity of our people and our economy. How does that fit in? Doesn't this debate have to be interrupted and some things revisited?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U47	Thank you. I don't think we need to interrupt the things that are being discussed here in the Riigikogu. As I said, the 'Estonia 2035' strategy will be implemented primarily through development plans and programmes in the field. And it can be used as a basis for strategic planning much more widely than only in national development plans. It is certainly possible to involve, as I said, the private sector and the civil organisations of local governments. Now, the question of labour was under very serious discussion this spring-summer of the year, when the corona virus sealed everything. I think I understand very well what you asked, Mr. Kruuse. In the agricultural sector in particular, you referred to its development plan, but a solution has now been found. There are certain trust measures and can also bring in workers from third countries. At the same time, I fully agree with what you said. I think it is a broader view of 'Estonia 2035' that the people of Estonia who live outside Estonia come back. We are doing everything here to ensure that our survival, our living environment, becomes better and better, and these people decide to come back at one point or at least consider whether to return to Estonia permanently or temporarily. Certainly all our people who live outside Estonia are always welcome back to Estonia. But we also have to take into account that when we talk about external labour, which you also touched on, certain confidence measures must continue to be in force. We can't make the kind of regulation we had before from coronavir. I think this regulation is working today, that when people come here, it is clear to them that they need to be tested. If the tests are carried out or if there are 14 days of isolation and the tests are negative, then there is definitely a chance to get to work. Thank you for your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U48	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U49	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your presentation. I have been able to read this document and have also participated in the strategy seminars. The strategy is known to be a plan of action with clear objectives, and there are five objectives in this document: smart people living in Estonia, society is caring, the economy is strong, the environment is safe and of high quality and Estonia is reliable and human-centred. These are both general objectives that are equally suitable for Estonia and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. What do you think is a specific development strategy for Estonia? How would we survive on this shore of the Baltic Sea with this population in this world?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U50	Thank you. Well, I'm not yours with that comparison... I certainly do not want to kill the debate, but if there is a desire to compare us with other countries like this, then I certainly do not agree with it. I think these are strategic messages that are important for Estonia. In addition to the strategy paper, the action plan is an annex to the strategy or part of the strategy which the government reviews each year. I believe that the Riigikogu will also review this 'Estonia 2035' as often as it wishes. There are more than 30 clusters of activities in this action plan and nearly a hundred different real-life activities. You're asking what's the most important thing. I think the debate with Mr Kruus opened up the idea of 'Estonia 2035' very well. After all, the idea is that Estonia will become a living environment where as many people as possible really want to return. We want to see that our population really is growing. In recent years, it has shown a positive trend, but I think that, as I said in my introductory presentation, we must also be guided by the importance not only of life expectancy but also of how long our people live healthy. This, I think, is very important and is the basis for a very large number of objectives. I cannot say in any way that these objectives are very general or appropriate for all countries. Indeed, Estonia has always been such an innovative economy; we have a lot of initiatives with which Estonia has actually been a leader in the wider world. I don't think we need to be ashamed, good Riigikogu. Even this same digital revolution has been a very strong message to the world in the last few decades, that Estonia has taken significant steps in this area and that we are ready to share our experience. And we have. For us, too, it has always been important that this is also due to our close-up close-up, so that Estonia is safe, so that Estonia is protected. It is, in fact, very clearly written here in view of our own actions, but also of our allied relations, be it NATO, be it the European Union, be it the UN. So as early as the early 90s, Estonia has taken the course to integrate as much as possible with the various major international organisations. And it has been very successful for Estonia, I think.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U51	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U52	Prime Minister! Indeed, big plans and flying ideas are one thing, but ordinary, real life still goes the way it usually is. As well as the implementation of the strategy of this strategy paper, it is fair to recognise that there are individual problems which could lead to a reduction in investment opportunities for our country in the future. Honestly, it's been acknowledged. If we look at the state budget and budget strategy that you have recently brought here, there is also a problem that the list of new investments is strikingly short. You have brought out some large objects here, but negotiations are still under way and are hoping for hypothetical euro money. But the loan money will cost almost five billion in two years, this year and next year. Why is the list of new investments so strikingly short?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U53	Thank you. In the light of this document, I will reply to you, Mr Sõerd, and perhaps to the previous questioner, that we must understand that this is, in principle, a very different approach. Estonia has never had such a comprehensive strategic plan before. And I think that today the honourable Riigikogu is willing to move forward with this plan, to start discussing this plan, in fact, creates a new basis and quality. Point one. Now, let's look at these important focus topics or strategic goals that we've highlighted here. Let's take the same field of education. We continue to say that education is important, important for Estonia. And we can also boldly say today that education has been an area in which we have shown very high results throughout the world. Very high scores! I think it's positive, and we shouldn't be ashamed of it in any way. Or we could take the same environmental and biodiversity issue. These are actually focussings where Estonia has taken good steps. We compare the current situation, for example, with the 1990 base year with which Europe as a whole compares, with the Paris Agreement. The European Commission's new strategic ambitious objective is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 50%. Mr Sõerd, you also know that Estonia can say, on the basis of the preliminary data of last year, that 60% has already been done. Our Riigikogu, the Honourable Riigikogu, adopted the fundamentals of climate policy. In 2017, when the Riigikogu adopted it, Estonia set itself a target of 70% - a much more ambitious goal. So it can be said that in many areas we are much more ambitious. Now, about the investments you asked about. I understand that we are still discussing the big goal of the 'Estonia 2035' strategy at the moment, but you are very good at linking it to budgetary policy, being a highly recognised and good expert in finance. What about the investments, what about the future? Well, let's take the same example, the honourable Riigikogu, I would say anyway, this balanced and affordable budget that the government has now handed over to the Riigikogu. Of course, it is under discussion, and you will ultimately decide on it. But we're taking research and development. How many years have actually been debating whether it has to be 1% of GDP. In fact, I do not think there has been any political power that would have said that there should not be 1%, and here we must pay tribute both to today's opposition and to the coalition. But it has not actually been achieved. Now there is a separate question as to whether we take R &amp; D money as an investment or whether we take it as an expense. I think maybe here we are in agreement with you that this is actually an investment. It is actually an investment, it is a clear view behind the horizon, it is also a clear view of changing the foundations of our economic structure, innovation, entrepreneurship. So I consider this a very big and very fundamental decision. And we'll do it together. I think the Riigikogu will most likely close the budget procedure in December. We do a good thing: Estonian research and development, innovation and entrepreneurship. Now you are asking what the big investments will be in next year's budget. I really apologize to the Riigikogu, but we are going a little out of the topic 'Estonia 2035'. But what is it? I have already told you that 'Estonia 2035' sets five equally strategic goals. And I also said that it is important for us to have health; it is important for us to have healthy people. We are today in a major crisis caused by the corona virus, in a serious crisis: the economic crisis, the health crisis, the unpredictability crisis. And we also need to see how we can come out stronger than this crisis. And there are investments in the budget. I will now come specifically to what you asked for. After all, the budget must always be viewed as a whole. We also need to look at the next budgetary perspective of the European Union 2021 to 2027, which Estonia has been a shareholder in deciding on. We have always been involved in discussions on these issues; hands have always been attached. For example, there were very fundamental disputes over the re-launch plan this summer, plus the Estonian state budget. We actually see that the volume of investments is increasing. And that's good. The same example of health care I just gave you. We are going to apply for European Union money. We are going to ask for money from the European Union's structural funds, which do not involve relaunching, but we are also going to ask for taxpayers' money, and, of course, it is now up to you to decide to fix our hospital network, our medical network at all. The aim is for Estonia to be a safe and high-quality living environment, as stated. Here in this budget, which is on your desk, there are the same lessons from the corona virus, including lessons from the difficult weather conditions in Võrumaa, when one county was completely cut off from the electrical system in minutes. And this county was cut off not only from the electrical system, but also from the communication system. We're gonna deal with supplies, we're gonna set up a supply center with groceries, food, medicines, personal protective equipment, fuel supplies. There are some things, but there aren't a lot of supplies today. So, Mr Sõerd, I would actually say this in answer to your question: the focus is only and only on the Estonian person. And that's how it's supposed to be. Thank you for this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U54	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U55	Thank you very much. Prime Minister! Yes, such a comprehensive document is very welcome and, of course, very necessary, and the objectives described here are, of course, correct. After all, the greater goal of all development documents is to ensure that people have a better life, that they are healthy, that they feel healthy and safe, but also that there is good access in society. This is particularly important for people with disabilities. But at the same time, I would say that 15 years is a relatively short time, and the seeds should now be thrown into the soil to meet the objectives. Do you think it is excluded that in 15 years' time, our people will be wrestling at a huge disadvantage with the state budget and, for example, with the lack of teachers? Teachers' salaries have been frozen for a while. Perhaps such existential problems are wrestled rather than feeling good?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U56	Thank you, Mr. Jaanson. I thank you for that thought or question. I fully agree that a great deal of work has been done, and I actually think that this 'Estonia 2035', this framework or this strategy still gives us a very clear plan or direction ahead. And I think these targets are actually our strategic goals. What you are saying is that I hope that the President of the sitting of the Riigikogu, the President of the Riigikogu, will not intervene, but I would like to say that I fully agree that the well-being of people, the health of people, the healthy life expectancy, this is all important to me. I agree with that. The new issue we are investing in next year is the same accessibility. It's much stronger in focus than it used to be. Your question was, in fact, also focused on the budget. You asked in 15 years, for example, what is the budget balance or, let's say, the percentage of debt. You also talked about teachers' salaries. Let's get these things open by slices. First of all, the budget balance. What I'm trying to say is that I, in my personal sense or in my soul, am a rather conservative person in financial matters. At the same time, I realize that it is such a powerful feeling to say the sentence that you see, we are handing over so much debt to future generations. But I think it will be even more painful if we say to future generations that we will hand over the decisions we have not made or the actions we have not done. So I certainly wouldn't want to agree with that in any way. Are these failures related to internal security, social, educational, R &amp; D? There's no way I can agree to that. We see the level of Estonia's debt. Here it comes, Mr. Jaanson, to be honest with you that in today's coalition, the party Fatherland has maintained the principle of budgetary balance, the principle very strongly for decades. I say your party has been working for this for 17 years, and there is nothing wrong with that, and there is nothing wrong with saying about reform. But it seems to me that the direction of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Centre Party in the government is also to move towards the nominal and structural balance of the budget with the budgetary strategy of the state, which we are doing in a very unpredictable situation. I cannot say that the Social Democrats have been lavish, nor do I want to say that. So I think that, in fact, the principle of budgetary conservatism is not in any way reluctant to anyone. We're just in this big fall right now, and you have to come out of this fall. Today, the direction chosen is as much to stimulate the economy as possible and there is faith, there is hope that, if this is done, it will be possible to see a faster economic growth in the near future. Now, the teacher's salary. Yes, I understand where this criticism is addressed. But I want to say that 2020 has been a year in which very many people in Estonia have lost their jobs and many pay has been reduced when they work in the private sector. I think that going out now to the rise of the teachers' payroll next year is simply not financially possible, and I will say it boldly. In the previous coalition, where there were social democrats, the Fatherland and the Centre Party, as well as in this coalition, the EKR, the Fatherland and the Centre Party, the salaries of teachers have been raised. We have raised teachers' salaries over the last four years, including the minimum wage for teachers above EUR 300, and I think this has been a pretty strong increase. If you look at the OECD estimates, they say that Estonia has actually had a pretty good wage increase in the education sector. Of course that's not enough. If we take the average wage of teachers, I think I am not mistaken if I say that next year it will be 108% compared to the average wage in Estonia. I don't think that's enough either. I'd like that to be 120%, too. But today it is a reality where we are in our economic recession and recession. If I may say something else, Mr Jaanson, that in general we must, in my opinion, be guided by the fact that if we take this 'Estonia 2035', it is important that the budget also goes along with 'Estonia 2035'. And if there is a recession, if there is a health crisis, it must be taken into account. When we draw up a country's budgetary strategy, we are trying to see a longer perspective, but today to predict what will happen by 2024, I think it is very, very difficult to do so. Now, what else do I want to say about education, about valuing teachers? I think that this issue will be on the table earlier than a year from now: next spring, when we are going to do the next national budget strategy. The spring forecast is, I hope, more accurate and takes better account of the effects of the corona virus. Maybe we can get out with the good news. Today, however, we simply have to take into account what kind of a very serious crisis in the economy we are in at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U57	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In order to draw up this strategy, opinions were collected and this took place here in spring: at the end of April, at the beginning of May. And in the course of this collection, people were asked about Estonia's expectations by 2035. Sixteen keywords were given. Almost 14,000 people responded. It stands out, of course, that half of the respondents live in Harju County and the other half lives elsewhere in Estonia. There is a question of balance here, but my question is that residents of up to 39 years of age generally expect safe, natural and open Estonia by 2035. This is the younger part of the Estonian population. Please tell us what Estonia needs to do to ensure that their expectations for 2035 are met, but perhaps before that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U59	Thank you. I understand you have pointed out that Estonia would be responsible, innovative, open by 2035... Excuse me, can I be more specific for a moment?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U60	A microphone for the Urve Tit, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U61	Thank you, thank you very much. Here is just one table that shows that residents up to 39 years of age expect safe, natural and open Estonia. Older people have slightly different expectations. My question is: what does Estonia have to do to be natural, safe and open by 2035? And what are the odds of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U62	Thank you. Well, that's a very complex subject and it's complicated to answer with one or two sentences. But I'm trying. First, I will start with a safe Estonia or a safe living environment. I think that the best way to ensure Estonia's security is if Estonian society is strongly integrated, if Estonian society is coherent and uniform. Last year, a survey was carried out among young Russian-languages It showed some really positive results. There must have been 19 upper secondary schools where they were conducted if I wasn't mistaken, and the answers actually show that a positive attitude towards both national defence and Europe is getting stronger. That's positive. Now on: security actually starts at home. However, we cannot deny that we have a lot of problems relating to people's mental health linked to domestic violence. These are certainly very major challenges, very important problems in Estonian society, which must be solved, which must be worked on every day. When it comes to global security in the international arena, it is certainly a matter that is being dealt with by our very high trust percentage, the Police and Border Guard Board, the Rescue Board, the Defence Forces, the Defence League. I think we need to maintain this trust and build on it. Estonia's membership of the international organisations of NATO, the European Union, Estonia's strategic relations, transatlantic relations, our strategic relations with the United States and that, I would say, in terms of security, in very different areas. One area of course is defence and security; the other is cyber issues, 5G themes, three marine initiatives, Estonia as an active state, an active player in the international arena. Now forward, naturality. I think that Estonia has taken very many major steps when we compare the base year to 1990. Yes, I understand very well what the situation was in 1990. I understand where we came from under what regime, what occupation we came from. There were a great many industries where there was absolutely no environmental or environmental protection. But from this point on, we have actually done a great deal to make Estonia's environment much safer in order to increase our biodiversity. We take the quality of the water, we take the construction of water and sewerage lines. I think these pictures are like night and day. In fact, they are like night and day even compared to the beginning of this century. One of the topics that is up today is forest policy. I think it is very important that we do not go along with this, that we see that Estonia is losing its forest. Yes, we have to admit that we do not have a forestry development plan for 20202030. Now we have to make an effort to make it happen as soon as possible. We have also had a number of discussions on this issue in Question Time. So we have to preserve our nature, our biodiversity, our diversity, I think it's important, important. In my opinion, Estonia has been more of a general player. It is the same European Union-wide climate neutrality. It is our desire to cooperate seriously in this area with specialists, the Academy of Sciences. We were able to find out that it is feasible for Estonia to do so if we all work together. I think that natural Estonia will be if we still make very fundamental changes in our energy in the coming years, if we make very fundamental changes in our transport and also in agriculture in the coming years. Mr Sõerd asked how it could be transferred to the budget. The budget has been earmarked for the next year or years to the tune of 30 million for the development of hydrogen technology. Go on: openness, openness in every sense. I think that Estonia must maintain an open society that is caring, and openness has always been the principle of the Estonian economy, right? I think these three are all very important and very, very important. But as far as I can tell, there was also a cell in this collection of opinions that could be used to record the various thoughts that people had on their hearts. Definitely openness to our goals. I think it is important that we are also prepared for various changes, development. I think it is very important that Estonia is always willing to go along in all this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U63	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U64	Thank you. The Riigikogu was very cruel when it made you answer questions. But listen here to what you think about education, sanitation or, I don't know, openness or development, it's definitely not a strategy. Everyone will be reminded of how you have spent five years of structurally brutal minus instead of following a long-term strategy, just as tomorrow will not come. But I ask one non-cash question: what does this strategy say, which unfortunately I could not read through, come to us all of a sudden about turning Estonian, Estonian and Estonian early childhood education into Estonian? Please don't talk to me about learning Estonian, talk to me about learning Estonian!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U65	Thank you. First of all, I say quite sincerely that I think it is very positive that this passionate debate was today in the implementation of the Riigikogu sitting. And, of course, you know very well that when it was handed over to 'Estonia 2035', it was said that the Prime Minister would be a waitress by the government. Of course, there are never enough debates on Estonia's development issues; in my opinion there could always be more. At first it seemed to me that the Reform Party wanted to put the strategy back on track, but I actually believe that your wish was sincere, and I am pleased. Now, this attack on your budget for the last four to five years. I strongly reject it, it is such a political attack. In fact, this is the subject of how much we still see in society that certain problems continue to exist. They have needed to be resolved, but they have not been resolved. And there's nothing to do, the Reform Party itself has a very serious reason to look in the mirror. Why were there really so many power gaps in Estonian society that had to be filled? You're asking, your partymates are asking about the teacher's salary. You also know that in recent years, it has been greatly raised. And I think it's been important. It's been important. We will take next year's budget for defence investments, research and development. Yes, I agree that they are all on the expenditure side of the budget, but what is important is that we see that they are the necessary costs and investments for our future. You tell me not to talk about the transition to education in Estonian. But I'm sorry, what should we talk about? We cannot only talk about headlines, not knowing whether there is a ready methodology, whether there are enough teachers to teach, whether there are enough textbooks. [[Jürgen Ligi is leaving the hall.]] Mr. Ligi, I wish you a nice day. We do not want to find an answer to that, but I think we should find an answer, because that is why everyone has been dragging on for many years. We have started intensive teaching of the Estonian language in kindergartens, where there are Russian-speaking groups, so that Estonian-language learning becomes better in order to improve the quality of teaching the Estonian language. It's like it's not a big deal at all. Now the next step is to get to the first level of primary school. We have started this in this academic year, which is also important and important. If you come to the question you asked, when is the transition? And then, I understand, the Reform Party has filed this bill. This is, of course, a political issue for him. But that's what we have to come up with, I think, back in the education science discussions, back in the education development plans. Thank you. I'm sad when the questioner leaves the hall. It's really hard to say that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U66	Yes, I fully agree with the Prime Minister. The next question will be asked by Mart Võrguship. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You have now taken a great step forward in attacking the Reform Party, and you even thought that we were once again blocking the debate on the strategy. Let me remind you, just in case, that this proposal came out of the ranks of the Reform Party, that we should end this pointless debate, and the Prime Minister maybe is ready to answer the questions. If the President of the Riigikogu had decided to ask the hall for this, he should not even have taken a break. So the Reform Party is very constructive, sometimes we just have little to listen to. But now to my question. Indeed, the strategy has not been thoroughly studied; it has already sounded like it has only arrived today. As the former head of local government and today's council member, I am interested in the role that this strategy provides for the local government. You mentioned that this could also be a road map for municipalities. Maybe you can explain it in a few words?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U68	Thank you. I had a very constructive discussion with the Chairman of the Riigikogu when this was the break requested by Mr Siim Pohlak. The President of the Riigikogu asked how the feeling is, whether we should go to the questions. I think he had a sense of how to do it. He said that, of course, if the Riigikogu wants it, and if you have it acceptable on the agenda, we will do it. This would not be an exceptional case if a political statement were made without questions, it has been before, but it has also been the other way around. Especially when you come to this hall with this document. It was my idea. But I am happy that this debate is actually here today and we can start a discussion of this 'Estonia 2035' in a good way. Now for the role of local governments. First of all, this document has two readings, all right? And I very much hope that it is a dynamic document, that it is not that it is brought here and that it will remain somewhere in the drawer or will remain in the drawer of an action plan, which is part of 'Estonia 2035' at government level. I hope that it will actually be looked at dynamically, and that it will be improved when circumstances change. As I said in my presentation, one principle is that all members of the government come before the Riigikogu. This is not the case today, not all members of the government go to the Riigikogu with reviews of their field. I think it is important that this dialogue, this discussion, getting ideas from here in the Chamber of the Honourable Riigikogu, is very important, well-well important. But it is safe to say that the role of local authorities will certainly increase. I am pleased that the new Association of Cities and Municipalities has also participated in the development of 'Estonia 2035'. There have been separate visits to Estonian cities to get a sense of both local governments and residents. And what has been the main focus: it is the quality of local government services that must improve; services must become more accessible. I'm sure it's been important. I believe that cooperation between the government and the municipalities must, in any case, be intensified. And I think this strategy gives this opportunity, these goals set. I must tell you personally that I think you know Estonia's government policy very well. You also know that, in fact, in recent years, cooperation with the Union of Estonian Cities and Municipalities has now increased considerably, with the Association of Estonian Cities and Estonian Rural Governments in the past. After all, there were years when the government and municipalities could not even sign the protocols, so far apart. We've changed that. Of course, there are still differences of opinion, but the fact that the discussion has started again is a good thing. Many of the local government's focus issues have also received a non-final solution, but they are closer to the solution. For example, the restoration of the revenue base, which is still being discussed in the municipalities. I am reminded of the negative additional budget that had to be made more than ten years ago. The restoration of the revenue base has been a problem. The funding of roads remains unsolved, but I believe that progress has been made in this area as well. And I think what is still important about this strategy if we go into its content more: more and stronger involvement of local communities. I think that local authorities are extremely important partners here. Not only must we go to municipal and city councils, but we must go to villages, village communities. In a good way, the further towards the individual, the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U69	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U70	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Prime Minister! You came before us today, sent a text from strategy until 2035 to members of the Riigikogu 45 minutes before. The questions are perhaps very general, perhaps from this point of view, too, today. But last week you presented the budget and, if we now look at the beautiful objectives you talked about today, and we look at the budget as perhaps our most realistic document, these big targets are not, for some reason, reflected. Will this document come into effect sometime later? In the budget, we will not find either an increase in productivity growth or an increase in Estonia's competitiveness, nor, for example, a reduction in pollution in the transport sector. Even teachers' salaries do not increase for the first time in ten years, if I'm not mistaken. How should a member of the Riigikogu behave? These documents are not compatible with each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U71	Thank you. First of all, this time of day, I realize it's so important to you. I have a squirrel in me too, I'll tell you. This signature that I asked for this presentation to be made today came to my attention at 11:16 a.m. on the report at least. Point one. Point two: Mr. Gridship, let me make a little bit of a clarification. I hope the honorable Yoko Alender doesn't mind. For example, Tallinn makes Tallinn's strategy until 2035 in the wind of "Estonia 2035." The local governments are coming with us. Now forward, budget. You say, Mr Alender, that nothing in the budget is in this 2035 letter. I think this is a very serious accusation, and this is where the issues need to be taken apart. We have said, 'Estonia 2035' sets five equally important goals. Target one: Smart, active and healthy people live in Estonia. Smart, active, healthy people! If we look at this target, we can safely say that this budget actually reflects it very strongly over a year. But in one year, we will not solve the issues for the next 15 years, it will not be possible. That's really not possible! However, if we put aside all the political issues for a moment, there are, in essence, a lot of issues in the 2021 budget, including health issues. Let it be the topic of COVID that needs to be kept in focus today, be it the issue of organizing the hospital network, be it the issue of creating or securing supplies that are directly related to human health, be it the subject of education. I understand that it is very easy to say that teachers' pay does not rise. I'm afraid I can't set an example here and tell you that we're raising your salary. It's not just about teachers. If it were up to me, I'd get a higher salary for rescue officers, police and border guards, people working for social welfare, teachers, people in the IT sector. Of course, I think that wages are very behind in many sectors. But there is nothing to do, it is today's reality in what economic crisis we are in. We deal with this every day.The Estonian authorities deal with it, the government deals with it, the Riigikogu deals with it. I think we're all individually dealing with keeping this virus at some point in its spread. This is actually a very strong negative input from the point of view of our economy, our economic growth. The funding of higher education is taken from it. The agreements provide that the government must support it, and it is currently included in the budget: 7.8 million. We have also budgeted for this, in my opinion, not only the subject of education, but also the regional policy issue of 1.2 million for colleges next year. I think it's important too. In six Estonian cities there is a college, whether it is Pärnu or Narva or it is Viljandi or Kohtla-Järve or Haapsalu or Kuressaare. It's always been. Those people who deal with municipalities know that this has always been about whether colleges stay or colleges do not stay. This is not just about education. Now the same 1% of GDP. I just don't want to run over this in any way. I have had the honour of this subject, say, badly defending three or four years here in the Riigikogu. After all, the Prime Minister attends here with a presentation on research and development before the honourable Riigikogu. I've never been able to say we've reached 1%. Today we can say that, and I think it is a very big step. A very, very big job is actually done by everyone. And the fact that we will only get to it because GDP will fall next year is not true. That is absolutely not true! There will also be a nominal increase of more than EUR 50 million in additional funding. You say that this budget is not linked to this 'Estonia 2035'. I just need to stop at it a little longer, I'm really sorry. Estonia is a living environment that takes into account everyone's needs, is safe and is of high quality. There is a large dislocation in Estonia, we also have many islands, they are far away, but often it is necessary to help people. Today we have to admit that we do not have a very good capacity. The PBA does have three helicopters, but they can't fly at any moment. It's all about the weather, depending on whether there's enough teams. The helicopter may also be in repair. Today we are making an application for three medical helicopters in Estonia within the framework of this same restart scheme. In my opinion, this is a very important, very, very fundamental new approach, that we pay extra from the budget to one team in order to have one more team. What's her other than a safe living environment? It is a quality living environment; it is a living environment that takes into account different needs. As I said to Mr Jaanson, this very issue of accessibility is actually reflected in investments. As far as defence investments are concerned, I would like to point out how much has been around this political track: oh, this government, I do not know, reduces defence costs, does not consider defence investments to be important. We are now seeing the greatest defence investment of all time. If we take the years 2022 to 2024, then investments have been added to it compared to the national budget strategy for 2019 to strengthen our coastal defence capabilities. And it's important. Beach protection capabilities must be strengthened. This is directly related to this strategy. Well, what else can I say? Estonia is a human-centred country, reliable. Our activities in the UN Security Council, Estonia holds a very active position in the European Union, NATO. And I can't get over or around the fact that although the country is really hard, we are going to help those people who are the hardest today. And these are clearly our elderly, our pensioners. We have also foreseen an extraordinary increase in pension, of course, if the Riigikogu approves it. And I think it's important that we increase the base. We are contributing to those pensioners who have children, and we are also doing so in terms of national pensions. These are very important components, in my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U72	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U73	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister! Indeed, I very much like the five goals set out in this long-term development plan. But I have to say that regardless of the individual examples you are trying to give us about what the government is doing in the budget for next year, given which government you are prime minister for a year and a half, it is still rather tragic that you are presenting us with a document that states that Estonia is an innovative state, that the Estonian economy is innovative and responsible and that Estonia is also a reliable state. It also says that Estonian society is caring, cooperative and open. Now, think a little about what kind of political culture and what concrete actions this government has brought with it. But my question doesn't come up with that, because there will be another set of individual examples that have been ripped out of context. My question is that if we want a substantive debate on these very right objectives, whether this Prime Minister's request came today at 11:16 or whether the information has reached the Riigikogu since 2:00 p.m. so that this topic can be discussed in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu, why should it not have been said to us last week? We could have prepared this debate properly. Why did it have to...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U74	Mr. Saar, you've almost doubled your time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U75	Thank you. Sweet Indrek! This Regulation shall enter into force I think you were there yourself when we started 'Estonia 2035'. This Regulation shall enter into force You were on it yourself. As you can see, now it's almost the end of 2020 and we're close to the end. It's taken a long time, it's taken a long time. I think it's positive that we've come this far. I think there may have been quite a lot of doubters at the table of the government, even then, whether 'Estonia 2035' will ever be born or arrive at this Riigikogu. As I said, it is not the case that the government brings it to this Riigikogu and says that you see, look, read it and give it back. On the contrary, it stays here, it is a document of the Riigikogu in our opinion. The Riigikogu should change that. This step, how, is the Riigikogu to decide whether it is every year, whether it is composed once or more often than once a year. I think it's a debate, a discussion, and it's not worth it, I think, to be upset. But I thank you for agreeing to these goals. Now, you're saying I'm gonna answer this document in one year's time. But I'm being asked for one year. All the questions of the members of the Riigikogu have been very specific about what is in the state budget for next year. But I totally agree that this is not just a one-year document, it is not even a four-year document. I think that 'Estonia 2035' will be much better linked to the state budget strategy and the state budget. And with this criticism, I do not agree with what you are bringing. I'm not slipping over here. For a year and a half, it has now been like a bad coalition in Estonia. But then, when you were soccer, it was like a good coalition. You can't say that! I don't think you can say that, Mr. Island! The highest authority has been elected by the Riigikogu in a democratic, honest manner. The Riigikogu is doing its job. There are currently five political parties in the Riigikogu, so the supreme authority has foreseen. There has been competition, political competition, who is in the coalition and who is in the opposition. In politics, it can change, you know very well that very quickly it can change. Today's coalition has found a common ground, has found a compromise in politics. And I certainly welcome this and I would like to say that this coalition has, in my opinion, done very large fundamental things in very difficult circumstances, in very difficult situations. Corona virus, for example. The EKRE, the Fatherland and the Centre Party were in this coalition. Of course, you have the right to judge and say that everything is wrong. Or maybe something's good. But I say that this coalition has always kept its decisions in line to stand up for the Estonian people, for the strength of Estonia. I was in the opositon party myself. In some ways it is a very personal saying, to say that if some are in the coalition, then Estonia is not open, then Estonia is closed, then Estonia does not carry the right values, then Estonia does not carry the ideals, and if this party or these parties are in opposition, then everything is fine. For more than ten years, the Centre Party was said to be quiet, to be in the corner, and do not say anything. I think it was not good for Estonian society. I am not the mouthpiece of the EKRE here, but this party has certainly increased its share of the members of the Riigikogu the most compared to the previous composition. It's true. This is how the people of Estonia voted. Who voted for the Social Democrats who gave the Centre Party a vote to the Reform Party or the Fatherland. That's right. But disparage and say that... I'm sorry, but the coalition sent you this document from the government. In the meantime, we didn't have another coalition in the government that, I don't know, two parties jumped aside that they didn't know anything, or one party jumped aside. I looked, there were ministers at the table from the EKRE, the Fatherland and the Centre Party. You see, the document's here now. It's your decision to make with it, but I think this input is pretty strong, the preparation has been pretty big and high-quality.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U76	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U77	Good President! Prime Minister! Since Estonia is not only Tallinn, many of us are looking for such documents in our constituency. I was looking for Ida-Viru County. I found there that greenhouse gases in Estonia have fallen dramatically since the 1990s, as we all know, but Estonia is a land with a relatively high emissions industry. Help me answer your voter! This document states that Estonia is planning to face major climate-neutral challenges by 2050. Please help me answer my constituents whether the end of oil shale mining and oil industry is in Estonia in 2029 or in 2049! People in Ida-Virumaa are very interested in what is the perspective of the oil shale industry and its related oil industry?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U78	Thank you. I fully understand your question and fully understand your concerns. If only I wanted to make big headlines, it would be very easy for me to answer that and say that you see, we're going to have a round of greens, and that's it. But I said to you today in the introduction: 'Estonia 2035' is integrated into the economic coordination of the European Semester. This is the basis for planning the European Union's resources and gives direction to the implementation of global sustainable development goals in Estonia. And everyone certainly knows, I believe that this hall knows this very well, that the Sustainable Development Goals are not only set in the area of the environment. Sustainable development objectives are also economic and social. And so much I have been taught on sustainable development issues, that I know that in these three areas we need to find common ground, we need to find a balance that is very important in nature and also very important in other areas. Yes, I understand very well, you asked a specific question: when will this so-called Põxi take place, when will the production of oil shale electricity stop? We have already significantly reduced the share of oil shale as a fossil fuel in energy production. This has been facilitated, I think, by environmentally conscious thinking, but also very strongly by the market, which has led to very high prices. Yes, oil shale can be used, but it is a completely anti-market activity and it cannot be paid for at least by a country the size of Estonia and the wealth of Estonia. Other solutions need to be found. I start by saying that these are not just warm words, but first we must say thank you to those engineers in Ida-Viru County, to those miners who have been doing a very hard, very hard job for decades. And their families. Let us be honest, in fact, Estonia's economic success has been very much based on the fact that our energy has been coming from it for decades. Yes, it is a painful question that if at one point we no longer have oil shale energy, oil shale energy, then what happens next. I don't think we can say we don't use oil shale at all. I understand oil shale oil production is also the use of fossil fuels, but its footprint in the environment is many times smaller than energy production. Next, I think we also need to think seriously about whether we can create other, alternative inputs and production capacities in Ida-Virumaa, which would give jobs to the highly qualified, educated and good people who are currently working in this sector. We know that the average wage in this sector is much higher than the average wage in Estonia, not to mention the average wage in the county. We have made certain such, say, targeted offers, tried to come to the aid of energy-intensive companies, some of them also operate in Ida-Virumaa to create jobs there through their production, with these investments. I think the message is, above all, that we cannot leave anyone behind just because we base the principles of sustainable development on just one principle. Then the game wouldn't be fair. All three principles need to be taken as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U79	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U80	Prime Minister! My question relates to the overall system of strategy papers that we are creating. I understand that there is now a debate relating to the 'Estonia 2035' strategy paper. After the debate, not after today's debate, but generally after the debate, we will vote on it in the Riigikogu. I understand that this is the main strategy document, but basically it also includes all kinds of development plans. Development plans are relatively general, they are completed in ministries. There are about 20 of them and we will not vote on them, although they are partly linked to this general strategy paper. Separately, we still have the documents of the fundamentals, which are also produced in the ministries and which are also general and which we essentially vote on each time in the Riigikogu. My question is: which of these documents are the main ones? What does a regular voter or ordinary person come from when he looks at these documents? And don't you have the feeling that we're about to sink into strategy papers? I'm just trying to figure out what your vision is.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U81	Thank you. If you so specifically ask about my knowledge, I think this 'Estonia 2035' is not a document from the Prime Minister or Government. I think it should be, it's a Riigikogu document. The government has brought it here as a proposal, and it is up to you to discuss, change, accept you and come back to it. The government is taking from this strategy an action plan that we are trying to keep running every year and to renew every year, to keep dynamic. Yes, you are right: there are quite a lot of development plans in Estonia, there are 18 or 20 of them, that is quite a lot. I think that the level of development plans could remain a government level in the future; the development plan could remain a government-level document. I think that would make more sense. The fundamentals are actually for the Riigikogu to decide. Today, we really, I think, have a dozen or even 17 or 20 fundamentals documents of a lot. We need to think about how these fundamentals relate to 'Estonia 2035'. But this is a perfectly legitimate question and I believe that this structure should be discussed in this Riigikogu. The government cannot say that the Riigikogu, lose the fundamentals! But the 'Estonia 2035' strategy is a document that, as I said, has never existed before. This is for the first time in the history of Estonia's independence at least, when such a complete document with a long view is brought to this table. Now, according to my information after 2021 and plus some more we'll have development plans for 16. But this is the level of government. What's most important, though, depends on what information a person wants to find. If he wants to find a very concrete action plan for next year, it is clear that in this sense the budget is always the right source. The country's budgetary strategy is still a document with a long vision. In my opinion, this 'Estonia 2035' should be accompanied by its own action plan. And we also have to take into account that, in fact, there are also very specific strategic documents at ministerial level, which are programmes at ministerial level or what we call them. You can always look at more detailed information from there. But yes, I agree that either the fundamentals or the 'Estonia 2035' Riigikogu should finally decide whether they will remain either or how they will interact with each other or how they will fill each other up.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U82	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U83	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! It seems to me that the difference between me and you is that I don't have to pretend that I've read this document. That came 45 minutes ago. You have another assignment. Say such a thing, I think the whole of Estonia is interested. By the time the year 2035 comes, you will be about 57 years old, probably the longest-serving head of government in Europe. So how are we going with the Tallinna-Helsinki tunnel? Is it set up by then?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U84	Thank you. First of all, you put the bar so high. I, of course, cannot go to your equal height in political pilotage, Mr Michal. But now I understand what you said. I have, of course, not only studied and read this 'Estonia 2035' strategy, but also this action plan on several occasions. But I read today that you now admit that you have a party chairman on the streets of Tallinn. In the old days, there were giant Ansips, and now I was scared, and now there were giant Kajas on the streets of Tallinn. But now you've changed your Facebook, and I watched it today, and you're saying that you have a squirrel that you've understood. [[Laughing.]] Very well done advertising campaign, such a follow-up campaign! You'll have to give your office your congratulations. First you put something up, the question is, "Do you have a squirrel in you, good Kristen Michal? ' And then you think for a week and say, 'Yes, I have a squirrel in me. ' But what I'm saying is, actually, with this tunnel, we should move on together. I have said several times in Riigikogu Question Time that I think here we are in a very strong common position or on one side, I do not say the front line, I say, on one side of the construction line. What's the status on that? I hope that we have taken a step forward to get out of the analysis phase so that we have a concrete plan on how to implement it, how to finance it. And I would say, precisely in a transparent and secure way, which is very important in today's world. But it's gotta be safe, it can't be dangerous if you take a train in there. It mustn't be dangerous, it must definitely be safe. What else? Well, you're telling me who's prime minister in 2035 and so on. It's not yours to measure! There isn't so much squirrel in you either that it's yours to measure. That is what the people of Estonia say, they say from the elections to the elections, who will be elected to this Riigikogu and who will act like a squirrel on a bike. There will be political competition, who will form a coalition and who will not form one. That's right. We shall see that there are so many days of life, who will be in government this year and who will not be. But with this tunnel, let's keep going. If you have any good ideas on how to speed up this process, I will always be willing and willing to cooperate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U85	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U86	Mr. Prime Minister! You have, for quite some time, rejected the complaints that this document is general. Unfortunately, I have to agree with those people who say that this is unfortunately extremely general. If we look back a little bit in time, there are a number of such strategy papers which have become a stumbling block in general. A good example of such a development document has been the forestry development plan, which has been discussed several times in the Riigikogu and has been sent back backwards because of its general wording. Repeatedly! You said that you thought such development plans should be government-level documents. Do you agree with the forestry development plan? And is the forestry development plan not coming to the Riigikogu this time and receding into a government document?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U87	Thank you. First of all, you have the strategy 'Estonia 2035' if you want to talk about it. The strategy is always such a general one, it gives the framework. But, as I said, it also has a specific action plan and an implementation scheme, which is a government-level document. We held a discussion with Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubitsa, where these development plans could be laid down in the future. The question was, what is this feeling of mine? I said that the development plans could, in my opinion, be at government level. If you are asking about the Forest Development Plan 2020 has to be2030, then we have to comply with the law in force. I think it comes from our code that it is the duty of the Riigikogu to adopt it here. If you decide to take it to a level of government, it is your decision. But if you ask me to feel my feelings in today's situation, I think that the forestry development plan 2020,2030 could be decided at the level of the Riigikogu. This debate, in my opinion, could be here and the final result could be confirmed here. It is still such an important resource, and not just an economic resource. It is also a recreational resource, a cultural resource, a resource of our historical heritage. So I think it could be on this level if you answer your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U88	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U89	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! I want to give you my credit. As is appropriate for a small flexible country, our Prime Minister is also very flexible. While one of the questioners admitted that he had already read this strategy paper, it could be checked after the verbatim, but a lot of the questioners complained about why they had not been able to read it before. Of course, there is a very large difference between reading or reviewing the document. But my question is: do you agree with me that these questions today should not have been asked at all? Members of the Riigikogu could really work on this document first and only then turn to it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U90	Thank you, Mr Šorin. It seems to me, however, that watching this discussion... I was really beginning to fear that there would be such a political theater that the Reform Party would do, but it seems to me that people actually have a genuine concern in the heart of how Estonia will proceed, which are the strengths of Estonia that we will continue to keep in our strategy for the next 15 years. But I agree with what you said. I agree with you, one hundred percent, Mr. Šorin, that getting to know and work through are two different things. And in my opinion, this is now the possibility that members of the Riigikogu will be able to seriously examine this document, to look at it also as a understandable desire for their own area or their own county, perhaps a bit wider. And we will come back to this debate. I very much hope that the Management Board of the Riigikogu, as provided for by the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, will now adopt it into procedure and appoint a commission of directors. I really look forward, with great interest, to future pleasant and interesting and very necessary and certainly constructive debates. So I thank you very much for this debate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U91	Thank you, Prime Minister. No more questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. First, on behalf of the Group of the Kaja Kallas Reform Party, I would like to ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U92	Thank you. Thank you also to the Prime Minister for his presentation. Firstly, of course, we must mention that it is not normal to have parliamentary rule if we learn that the Prime Minister wants to come with [Parliament] political statement, 50 minutes before making that statement. It was nothing extraordinary, nothing extraordinary had happened. [If] hope that the Prime Minister will come with a statement that he will resign it would be extraordinary and then it would be okay to come without prior notice, but not when we talk about 'Estonia 2035'. That's one. The Prime Minister has confirmed from this remote that he has read this document, read it many times. But here's the difference. The Prime Minister should have a strategic view, he should be the carrier of this matter. An official of the Prime Minister's strategy office presented it to us in the group. It all shows that the Prime Minister himself is not really involved in this. Then why would he want to make this statement? It's just for this reason that you have beautiful words, hollow speech, but when we look at actions, they don't really exist. This should be the most important document of the Jüri Ratas government when we talk about 2035. But it certainly isn't. Why is it not credible that the Prime Minister is talking about this? It's very simple. The aim is to talk about 2035 but, in reality, we cannot even talk about one year, not to mention that we are talking about a country's budgetary strategy, which has been made over four years. In this regard, the Prime Minister says that it is absolutely impossible to predict what will come in four years. But I'd like to talk to you about 2035. The country's strategy should mean that you have a bearing vision that will be met by all decisions. But once again, when we look at words and actions, they don't come together in any way. It also seemed from this presentation that, while the Prime Minister confirmed that he had read this document, he had not done so thoroughly enough, because it really seemed that the Prime Minister was talking about anything until the moment when he received a message with a substantive answer, which he could then submit. It shouldn't be like that. I hope that by the time this strategy paper comes to first reading, the Prime Minister will have worked through it in such a way that he will also be able to answer questions from members of the Riigikogu without the help of outsiders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U93	Next, Jaak Valge on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable technical personnel! I will try to be quick, too, and I hope that my colleagues will appreciate my laconicity. Our group was quite keenly involved in developing the 'Estonia 2035' strategy. In other words, our 19 members have been among the 17,000 who have contributed to the strategy by collecting opinions. Of course, we would also have liked to have seen representative research carried out on the issues of the strategy on exactly what Estonian citizens want, how much in proportion and exactly who. But yes, we understand that the process of drawing up the strategy was far enough away by the time we actively joined it and were able to influence it. But we are pleased that the strategy team has also taken into account our proposals. Not all of them, of course. We understand that this is not an EKRE strategy, but a strategy for the Republic of Estonia. Part of our proposals were non-political, simply aimed at reducing slogans, some were designed to translate the text, and some were also those that defined the policy objectives of this strategy. I will bring to you only two theories defining the political goal, but these proposals are very fundamental to us. First of all, the proportion of people who speak Estonian as their mother tongue is among the indicators of a democratic and secure state on our proposal. Secondly, our proposal for a strategy includes the idea that opportunities should be developed for greater use of referendums and initiatives to empower people, communities and civil society organisations and to participate in governance. It suits us very well, but it certainly does not suit the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. It is the greater use of referendums that will ensure that Estonia will always remain democratic. Of course, we would have liked to have taken account of other of our proposals, but in the end, this document is certainly at the level of starting a substantive debate on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U95	Riina Sikkut on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U96	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! 'Estonia 2035' is still extraordinary. What an inclusive process and what an ambition to reduce the number of strategy papers and create a roof that suits all areas! Well, then, we can discuss and see how good he is and if we can find that it's something that can go on as the only roof. Jaak White described his improvements, which have already been introduced. But I bring out two things. On the one hand, the Prime Minister said that this is something that we are about to implement, something that will guide us into the future. At the same time, today, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we are discussing the budget once again, these keywords are not really reflected in the budget. If we are also thinking about the summer and the debates that have been or those that we are facing, the keyword 'openness' is all around. What about seasonal labour discussions, discussions with foreign students, caring about people and nature, caring? We are talking about a referendum. We have concerns to say 'climate neutrality', to set ambitious climate targets. This roof should enable us to do much more than what is currently stated in the budget or in other important documents. We should make better use of it. That's another thing. If we look at the coalition agreement and 'Estonia 2035' and think about which cartoon is a separate question, this big strategy will only work if it is actually used by everyone. Last week in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, for example, when the Minister of Culture answered my questions on strategy, he reflected it so that, well, let it be written what it says, the government will decide, and we will be able to get these cultural policy issues done, even if they are not written in 'Estonia 2035'. Well, maybe it's positive for the field that these things can be done even if they're not written, but on the other hand it still reflects the notion that it doesn't matter what the strategy says, it's not really going to determine our lives. But in that case, there is no point in making these documents. This strategy is working and it makes sense to put this energy and inclusion behind it only when it is actually used. This is something that leads to the drafting of sectoral development plans; it is something that leads to budget making; it is something that leads to government decisions. Otherwise, it is a waste of time and resources. In fact, we all need this commitment in this Chamber as well. It is something under which we are putting forward future activities in all areas so that we really can reach the point that we have intelligent, active and healthy people, an innovative economy and an environmentally friendly living environment where accessibility is guaranteed. All these and other beautiful and correct words, which are highlighted as important in the umbrella strategy, should actually be furnished and furnished in such a way that our lives really change. I would like the strength to debate in this Chamber and the same way to the government. Let's really get this strategy going. At present, looking at both the budget and the debates that are taking place, there is nothing to indicate that it will actually be implemented. But I'll stay hopeful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U97	Heiki Hepner on behalf of the party of the Isamaa Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U98	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, This is undoubtedly a very important document. This document will give us, our country, a direction for the next 15 years. In enhancing the vitality of Estonian nation, language and culture and promoting a democratic and secure state, we need to take into account five equal goals for our people, our society, our economy, our living environment and government when making our daily choices. For the Isamaa Group, the common denominator of these five very important goals is the preservation of Estonian nationality, language and culture throughout the ages. I really agree with what has been said here, too, that we can still discuss this strategy, and I am quite sure that this debate is worth holding. I would highlight perhaps two of those five goals right now. If we look at the natural and living environment, it is perhaps the most involved in the search and implementation of a new paradigm principle in these areas. In all five areas, an innovative approach is essential, thinking about how to be effective and sustainable. But in the environmental field, indeed, I would emphasise once again, perhaps the search for and implementation of a new paradigm would be the most obvious. At the same time, we must say that neither this area is black and white; it is actually intertwined with all other goals and activities. If we are also pursuing economic or climate concerns here, then it is clear that we must find new solutions to encourage R &amp; D and innovation in businesses. This will strengthen the Estonian economy and increase the capacity of the areas that are important to us. One example is the circular economy. Climate neutrality and energy production cannot be missed. If we look at how to ensure energy production so that climate neutrality is respected, the undoubtedly important principle of renewable energy is that there are only solutions that take into account national security, environmental protection and the interests of the population. We also need to change our real paradigm here. Or we look at decisions based on the fundamental principles of space, such as the introduction of the principles of conservation for everyone, which are important in terms of changing the principle compared to today, improving the quality of the natural environment, preserving biodiversity, as well as improving the resource efficiency of the living environment, integrated management of coastal and other important ecosystems, etc. We cannot overlook the sustainable use of our resources. This is one of the areas where there is a great deal of potential: how to do this in a way that brings wealth to our people, our society, to revive our economy. Can I have an extension, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U99	The extension is three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U100	The second area to which I would like to draw attention is the quality and availability of services provided by our country and local authorities and, as a whole, the welfare of our people. The issues of state reform, the autonomy of local governments, and certainly the revenue base should be put in line here. All of this should lead to a reduction in regional disparities and greater administrative and development capacity for our municipalities. To sum up: we are debating here and we are thinking about how we can ensure the well-being of our people, society, economy, living environment and government, with operational programmes, other development plans, so that the preservation of Estonian nationality, language and culture is ensured through the ages.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U101	Thank you. On behalf of the Black Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U102	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, it is easy and difficult to perform at the same time. The point is, of course, we could go back to the beginning and start repeating all these good and nice thoughts, but I guess there's no need for that. And if they say time is money and money is short, I could save some time, so I'm not asking for three more minutes today. I feel like a dinosaur because all the things we're talking about have been here many times, over and over, over and over again. At the university, we see how each course must be taught again and it turns out that a new generation is smarter than the previous ones, but sometimes it isn't. We have been debating what the development plan is for years in this Riigikogu. There have been some pretty gruesome assessments, it has been said that this is some kind of bubbling from Europe, that the development plan, for example, has to be made in order for otherwise not to be able to ask for euro support. It has been said over and over again and during each Riigikogu that I know one more thing that is missing, that there should have been more, that it should have been like a doctoral thesis, where the last details have been dimmed. Strategies and development plans have been useful if they are a bit general in the best sense of the word, if the categories we are talking about have been agreed and we are not going to argue again every year whether we are now going towards a sustainable economy or a circular economy, whether we consider national culture to be primary or not. These are the things where the foundation that we have needs to be raised step by step, to carry it all forward and to agree on those things that are not renegotiable at primary education level every year. Yeah, the way strategies are, just look at the strategies of the big companies in the world 30 years from now. They will, of course, be reviewed, there will be new opportunities, new, better solutions. But if there were strategies that set out in detail, like next year's budget, for the next 30 years, then, boys and girls, do you know, we would no longer need Parliament. Then they'll be like railroad tracks, you'll put them down and you'll drive and everything will be there. It is a pretty good strategy to base, build on, and move on simple and general principles, but still widely accepted, and to get out of this primary school, see how they can be actually implemented, developed and made so that our development is still robust, a success story and not a loss story. This is absolutely what the current strategy will do. If we look at Jaak White and say we know one thing even better, but if the others are against, let's not say it's all decided, but we'll go on together. Today is the point where we have got a strategy that needs to be discussed and which needs to be taken as a foundation, at least in primary or secondary education, as almost a good education. Thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U103	Thank you very much. The negotiations have been exhausted. The Prime Minister doesn't want to say anything. We have also exhausted the first item.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U104	The second item is the draft Act 229 on the ratification of the Treaties necessary to accede to the Convention establishing the European Centre for Medium-term Weather Forecasts, initiated by the Government of the Republic. We'll start with a second reading. I'm gonna ask Mart Võrguship, member of the Environment Committee, to wait here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U105	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 1 October, at its meeting, the Committee on the Environment prepared for a second reading a draft Act on the ratification of the treaties necessary to accede to the Convention establishing the European Centre for Medium-Term Weather Services, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The committee president explained that the first reading of the draft ended on 23 September, that the deadline for submitting amendments was 30 September at 4 p.m. and that no amendments had been received. Taimar Ala, Director General of the Environment Agency, has also been invited to the meeting, who said that the procurement offer required to move the services of the European Centre for Medium-Term Weather Forecasts is complete and that the deadline for submitting it is on 1 October, and in order for Estonia to be able to participate in the procurement, it is necessary to be a full member of the Convention by 1 December 2020 and full membership gives the presumption that the Estonian tender offer will be taken into account. In order to fit into the time frame, the Ministry of the Environment has a proposal for an amendment to the Commission to include an entry into force clause in the draft. The chairman of the committee proposed that the Commission's amendment be formulated so that the law enters into force the day after its publication in the Official Journal of the State. Perhaps the whole point of this amendment is that the law would not enter into force under the normal procedure provided for in the Law of the State Gazette, but just the day after its publication in the State Gazette in order to speed up the process. The Committee on the Environment fully supported this proposal and decided, among other things, to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 12 October, to propose the end of the second reading and also to propose the final vote on the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U106	There don't seem to be any questions. Thank you, dear waitress. Is there a wish to open negotiations? The desire to negotiate has not been revealed. Let us examine the amendments, one of them. The amendment has been proposed by the Committee on the Environment and has been fully taken into account as the lead committee. There are no other proposals, so the amendments have been examined and we are going to the final vote on the draft. So, honourable members of the Riigikogu, I will vote in the final vote on the draft Act on the ratification of the Treaties necessary to accede to the Convention establishing the European Centre for Medium-term Weather Forecasts initiated by the Government of the Republic (229 SE). Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U107	46 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one opposed, no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U108	Okay, now there's a free microphone. I'm gonna hit you with a hammer, and if there's a wish to appear in a free microphone format after the hammer hit, everyone's welcome. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U109	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to talk about the destruction of Estonia, which I have been conducting in private research since 1994, I have interviewed many Witnesses and compared their statements with written evidence. So what happened? The ship sailed the sea, the visor was closed, the Atlantic lock closed. But why did it open? In the absence of time, I'm going to be extremely short. The final report states that cracks were detected in the tile between the sides of the visor's hinge and the hinges at some point before the shipwreck. The right-wing hinge had a ten-inch crack in its ears and a two-inch crack in its left-wing hinge had a five-inch crack in its ear. I believe that there is no dispute that the crack can only be caused by an external influence, i.e. when the bow is subjected to shocking loads, in this case, by the stormy waves of the sea. I'm saying that the visor's hinge box metal just gave in, and the visor fell from the front. However, the final report does not draw any conclusions on this point. Imagine, it is classified under other observations on page 126. Next, the conclusions of the final report on page 209 describe laconically that before the disaster in Estonia there were numerous bow visor crashes on ships of the type Estonia, but there is no mention in half that Estonia was the normal occurrence of a bow-visor accident. In my research, the Witnesses have told us that there was an agreement with the ship's management that if the visor were to open up spontaneously again under the influence of the waves, it would not even be necessary to inform the management, it would be necessary to start the pumps, close the Atlantic lock and, after it is done, stop the pumps. What else? All scientific experiments to analyse the stability of the model have actually been incomplete with the source data, because the fact that 12 scupper valves in the car deck were closed in Estonia has not been taken into account. Unfortunately, the chief Vello Ruben, who had been sent to open the ship, did not return after the heels of the ship. For explanation: Pigart valves are valves that discharge water from the ship into the car deck. On page 33 of the final report, it is only laconically stated that the scuppers were usually left open. Can this be official research? Stefan Torsell's book 'The ferry Estonia. The Swedish State's doom' page 246 contains the fact that a maritime safety inspection carried out on the ship on the morning of the day of death found a number of deficiencies with which sea travel is in fact unacceptable. The most distinctive of them is the fact that the hatches of the emergency exits from the engine room in the car deck were in an open position, i.e. rusted, so they couldn't move when they were beaten with a big hammer. By the way, page 53 of the final report also mentions this, but very modestly. So there is no need to wonder how the water entering the car deck quickly got to the bottom of the ship and why the ship lost its position so quickly. These facts alone speak for themselves. The conclusion of my research is brief. Estonia was a ship that lost its original strength due to repeated visor injuries. This is indicated in the report on page 42. Instead of having him repaired immediately, he was kept in business at the expense of profit and human life. Therefore, the whole issue of liability for those whose decisions depended on the start of the visor's welding operations, finally on the ship's compliance with maritime safety rules, and on allowing the ship to board. Now to the most important thing. On page 7, in the foreword to the final report, the following lines read: "The main purpose of the study of happiness is to identify the circumstances and causes of the accident in order to increase safety at sea and prevent new accidents. ' And now I would like to point out: 'The Commission's task is neither to assign responsibility nor to accuse anyone. " Thus, the final report did not want to identify the perpetrators of the accident. At the same time, research, as such, is always an opportunity to manipulate evidence, because there is no responsibility, since it is only research. Imagine the next situation that someone's gonna run over a person, but instead of starting a criminal trial, there's gonna be some smart club that's gonna be working on the facts of the accident. It is obvious that research does not officially allow the perpetrator to be identified. At this moment we are also moving in the same direction, we are launching a new investigation. In this context, the Government and, in particular, the Minister of Justice, should strike their backs straight and institute criminal proceedings instead of setting up a vague investigative commission. All the more so as the sunken Estonia ship is the territory of the Estonian state and no Swedish or Finnish government can put a hand on it. Otherwise, we will act in line with what Mr Vissarionovich Stalin said: killing one person is murder, the death of a million people is statistics. I'm ready to answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U110	Thank you. No questions will be asked to you, no such thing is foreseen.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U111	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U112	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U113	I will gladly use these five minutes to read to you the statement by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia regarding the situation in the South Caucasus. The aim of the EKRE is not to denigrate any country or nation, but at the same time some smaller people sometimes need greater protection. World countries need peace, wars are too many, refugees are too many. EKRE is concerned about the attacks launched by Azerbaijan on 27 September, which have led to quite a conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh. We call on the Azerbaijani and Armenian authorities to put an immediate stop to the bombing of civilian structures, resulting in hundreds of people dying every day. And that's on both sides. We also urge Turkey to put an end to its military support for Azerbaijan. We call on all the parties involved to publicly support the resolution of the matter without military means, through high-level negotiations involving both the parties involved in the conflict and the major countries and intermediary countries involved in the problems. First, however, the formation and directing of jihadist terrorist groups to the Azerbaijani-Karabakh front line should be stopped. There is evidence that some of them come from Syria, for example. Armenia, surrounded by Islamic countries, has been repeatedly persecuted throughout history, by Turkey, Iran and by the country of Azerbaijan that was later created. The tragic years are 1909, 1988 and 1990, and especially 1915 when the Osman Empire experienced a great genocide. In order to know that the territory of Armenia has been reduced by 9/10 in its history. There's a small 1/10 or 28000 square kilometers left. He was also the smallest republic of the Union. Who are the older people here, remember. In the old days, the Armenian national symbol was Mount Ararat, where Noah's ark had landed, once the center of Armenia. Same thing with Lake Van. Now the Armenians will see Ararat on the horizon or on a bottle of cognac. From all these territories, Armenians were either deported or killed. We should do our utmost to prevent such massacres from happening again today. Everyone still remembers the massacres in the Balkans, Serbia, Croatia, Bosnia and Kosovo. If nothing is done, the repetition of such events in the region will be very real. The possible expansion of military activities across the Armenian-Azerbaijan border is even more dangerous. It is not excluded that third countries will enter into this conflict either. We therefore call on the parties to follow the joint statement of the co-chairs of the OSCE Minsk Group, the US, France and the Russian President, on 1 October, and to return to the negotiating table, as this issue can only be resolved by negotiation. The temporary ceasefire that has been concluded in the meantime has not been able to last even 24 hours. There's always shooting. Finally, there is also a very dangerous situation in Kyrgyzstan, which needs to be monitored. I am using Cato's Parent's right to say that at the end of every speech I will say that Estonia must not become an afroarabian. I'm done.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U114	Thank you very much. Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U115	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable ambassadors! All good listeners-viewers! Today is October 12th, it's a Spanish national holiday. So, on behalf of the Estonian-Spanish parliamentary group, on behalf of our entire parliamentary group, I would like to congratulate our Spanish colleagues on this holiday, as well as the Spanish ambassador residing in Estonia, his Excellency Mrs Teresa Orjales Vidal and the whole embassy, the Estonian Spanish house and the entire Spanish community in Estonia. Feliz fiesta nacional! Since there is no more free microphone this week, as Chairman of the Finno-Ugric Support Group of the Riigikogu, I would also like to remind all of us that it is tribal day this Saturday, October 17. This is the day we think about the Finno-Ugric peoples. Those who have their own country and those who have to worry every day about defending their nation and national language and thinking about preserving them. The tradition of celebrating tribal days in Estonia dates back to 1928. But tribal day is also the day when we think about the roots of our language and culture, our national identity and value our belonging to the family of Finno-Ugric peoples. The situation of the Finno-Ugric peoples, especially their languages, worries us because the disappearance of these languages is part of the loss of our own culture and space of thought. In spring we saw a letter of concern from representatives of Russian minorities sent to the President of the Riigikogu about their situation in the Russian Federation. It is regrettable that the speakers in Finno-Ugric languages spoken in the Russian Federation have decreased in 2002-2010. From 2 million to 1.5 million in 2005. Maybe half a million people have gone somewhere. Where'd they go? From 2018 there will be a law in the Russian Federation that says that Finno-Ugric languages will be studied on a voluntary basis when the student's parents give their consent in writing. The result is the complete exclusion of Finno-Ugric languages from the educational sphere. This, in turn, affects the prestige of the language, and our related languages become completely third-class. It's not normal. These are indigenous peoples who can't say that if you don't like it here, go somewhere else. The continuation of such processes in Russia is under threat from the national media, literature, music, and theatre of our kindred peoples. What's the future if everything goes on like this? The future is the human mass in the Russian language of a few generations, which is only indirectly reminiscent of its origin. We Finno-Ugric people are becoming poorer, but in fact, both the Russian Federation and the whole world are becoming poorer. We want to draw the attention of the general public, the Council of Europe and the European Union to these processes, which have nothing in common with natural nature, so that measures are put in place in the Russian Federation to help preserve linguistic diversity. As a result of the Russification, indigenous peoples have been taken to desperate steps, such as the suicide in 2019 before the Udmurtia Parliament of Udmurtia in distress of a Udmurtia scientist and nationalist Albert Razin. In addition to linguistic discrimination, the Russian authorities do not respect the right of indigenous peoples to participate in the exploitation of their natural resources. The destruction of natural resources and sacred places is often encouraged. Protecting the rights of indigenous peoples in Russia is difficult, as associations that are striving for it are becoming increasingly victims of repression. It shall be prohibited to create political parties aimed at upholding the interests of indigenous peoples. Who's responsible for all this? Of course, it is a great pity that the eighth World Congress of Finno-Ugric Peoples in Tartu was missed this year in connection with the corona crisis. We very much hope that this will happen in June next year. So let us not just think about it on tribal day and let us not forget the Finno-Ugric peoples. And on tribal day, raise the national flags. Consider on that day our friends in Finland and Hungary, the Livonians, the Votes, as well as the faraway tribal peoples, such as ourselves, rivets, and cologne. Long live our many suffering tribe! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-12_U116	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. We have exhausted today's sitting. See you tomorrow!
