ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Can we start today's trial? If I may, I would like to start the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday of the 4th working week. First of all, I'm ready to accept drafts and inquiries. You don't see any desire to hand over any drafts or enquiries. Then please check your presence!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U2	77 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present; no 24.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U3	We can start working on today's agenda. The first item on the agenda is the third reading of the draft railway law 201 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups have a wish to speak on this subject? I can't see the wish, so I'm gonna consider the negotiations to be over. We are preparing for the final vote. Can I have your attention, please? I shall vote on the draft railway law initiated by the Government of the Republic, number 201. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U4	83 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U5	The second item is the bill number 219 of Indrek Saare, Keit Pentus-Rosimethus, Jürgen Ligi, Signe Riisalo, Yoko Alenderi, Helmen Küti, Lauri Läänemetsa, Siret Kotka, Andrei Korobeinik, Raimond Kaljulaiu, Oudekki Loone, Katri Raigi, Jüri Jaansoni, Toomas Kivimägi, Johannes Kerdi, Mart Võrvala, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Kalvi Kõud, Jaak Juske, Riina Sikkuti, Heljo Pikhofi, Liina Kersna and Madis Milling, on the draft law on animal protection and amendment of the Nature Conservation Act. We're gonna start reading it first. Evgeni Ossinovski, member of the Riigikogu of the remote control, please report!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U6	The excitement of the hall is left with the Rail Act... Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you a draft that has been initiated by 23 members of the Riigikogu from three political groups of the Riigikogu and which aims to ban fur farms in Estonia. The time has come, dear friends, for the third attempt to make this decision. The arguments in support of this are overwhelming, and the only serious argument against it has disappeared. [[There's a story in the hall.]] We wait until Mr. Ceder, Mr. Hepner, Mr. Sester and Mr. Chef resolve the Jõgeva Church's questions, then we move on. But before we go to these arguments, let's define the discussion. Why is it important to define it? Because in this debate a great deal is used what philosophy calls a slippery slope argument: if you take one step, you have to do the following. But where does all this end up? Well, yes, well, the fur business is an ugly business, we ban it, but if we ban it, we will soon all have to become vegetarians together, because the next thing you know, it's like it's going to be logical and automatic. No conclusion! This is a misguided conclusion and a demagogic argumentation. The ban on fur farms leads to vegetarian food as much as, I don't know, cultivation of GMOs. This ban should lead to us being allowed to eat forest mushrooms and plants in the future. It's not like that! It is quite possible to prohibit one and allow the other separately. So is it here. I stress: this draft does not concern the food industry and, more generally, the welfare of farm animals. These questions certainly deserve a social debate on their own, but they are basically out of the scope of this draft. This proposal specifically concerns one industry which, through the global fashion industry, satisfies people's vanity at the cost of animal welfare and the environment. The fur industry, unlike the food industry, does not meet any of mankind's basic needs. Fur is a luxury product with more ethical and environmentally friendly alternatives. And now, sticking to the framework that the activity of fur farms and the rearing and killing of fur animals do not meet people's basic needs, I will explain two more important reasons why the time for these farms is running out. The first argument concerns the ecological impact of these farms. First, invasive alien species are kept on fur farms. Mink is undoubtedly the most dangerous of them because biodiversity suffers. The European mink is on the verge of extinction in a large number of European countries, and the situation is poor in Estonia as well. It has undoubtedly been possible to take steps to limit the presence of fur farms in the wild, and so has been done, but it cannot be completely ruled out. The other side concerns the environmental footprint of this industry in relation to the natural working process of the fur industry. In order for a fur animal to become the fur used by the fashion industry, it is necessary to use a large number of chemicals. When you read the draft explanatory statement, it has been discussed in more detail what these chemicals are, why they are needed and what the quantities are used. The third type of ecological argument concerns the carbon footprint of the fur produced. In the context of the global climate crisis, it is undoubtedly important to ensure that the various consumer goods, In fact, fur, which in common terms could be considered a very natural product, is incomparable with other alternatives that people put on themselves, repeating and repeating more carbon footprints. Why is that, you might ask. But that's because it takes a lot of resources to raise an animal. Take, for example, the analysis carried out by the Dutch. They have come to the conclusion that an average of 11.4 min is needed to produce one kilogram of skin. And in order to grow 11.4 min in such a way that they can produce a kilogram of fur, it is necessary to feed 563 kg of food, mostly animal food. In order to receive 563 kg of animal food, a very large number of plant food is undoubtedly needed. Its growth, of course, takes a lot of resources, including land, and its total footprint is extremely large. The same Dutch analysis has reached such numbers, just to make it clear that if you take one kilo of a skin, its equivalent CO2 footprint is almost 150 kilograms. For example, when comparing natural clothing materials with wool, this figure is close to 25, polyesters, and cotton. So 150 and 10! More than ten times this footprint is therefore larger. So much for ecological arguments. The second type of argument, and certainly most people who are aching after the heart, is, of course, ethical, animal welfare. In the context of the global industry, in many areas, we are based on this understanding that it is better not to know how sausage is made, so it is better to eat. It's the same thing with fur animals, isn't it? If you look at the explanatory memorandum, there are exact numbers. There are, of course, minimum conditions for keeping fur animals in cages in the European Union and also in the Republic of Estonia, but I think very few know what these minimum conditions are. For example, the minimum size of a cage is 0,25 square metres, which is 10 × 25 cm. This is the minimum requirement for keeping this animal as a farm animal. Read the very good opinion story of the director of the Tallinn Zoo, which appeared on the ERR site on 15 September. He points out a very interesting fact. These same requirements are five or six times stricter for keeping mink in the zoo. It is essentially the same species of animals, but in order to keep those we see with our own eyes in the zoo, they have been judged necessary for their well-being by a long way above ethical standards than those we kill to produce luxury goods for people. I quote one paragraph from Mr Maran's article: "There is now a schizophrenic situation where the minimum standard for keeping mints in zoos and farms is different than night and day. It seems that keeping animals for commercial purposes allows for a discount in ethical considerations. On the other hand, if all reasonable welfare standards were fully applied to dairy farming, the sale price of meat skin would rise to the point where farm rearing would become economically absurd. "Mr Maran concludes: "Maybe the current farming can only take place because of the ecological and animal welfare costs." Several countries have effectively shut down this industry by raising the welfare standards that apply to the farming of fur animals. Minimum requirements for the size of these same cages have been increased and additional species-specific possibilities for animal welfare have been required on farms. As a result, the production costs of the industry have become so high that these farms have been shut down. This has been done in Germany and in several other countries. In Estonia, too, several of our colleagues in the Committee on the Environment and in the Committee on Rural Affairs, where we discussed this subject before today, have expressed a similar view. Why, then, with the decision of the state to shut down the farms, we better raise the minimum requirements for cages five times, and they'll go down ourselves. Yeah, well, basically we could discuss it, but why should we cheat on ourselves, the sector, and somebody else? The result is exactly the same. The fur industry cannot economically exist in terms of animal welfare and other environmental protection conditions. This can only be achieved at the cost of low welfare standards, and if these standards are raised, farms will be shut down for economic reasons. The result is the same. Now it's the only substantive argument against it. Twice this draft has already been dealt with in this Chamber and has been narrowly rejected at first reading. The argument has still been that farms have a positive socio-economic impact: people are busy, it is economic activity, taxes are paid, etc. There is no doubt that this is a legitimate argument; there is no question here. The socio-economic impact of regulating business sectors must be taken very seriously. But in the meantime, what has happened is that this argument has basically fallen off. Another about five years ago, there were 200,000 animals on Estonian fur farms. Now there's 2,000 of them left. Most of the keepers are about to close down, which is directly correlated with the fact that most of the keepers have been in deep losses over the last few years. If, let's say, five years ago, there were about 100 people working in the sector, then today there are 10 of them, at best 20 of them. The aim of the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia is not to shut down this industry for ethical and environmental reasons, but the fact that this market has collapsed globally. It has been hit by a complete collapse, behind which there is undoubtedly a greater awareness of animal welfare among people. We have seen very quick decisions by fashion companies to abandon fur in their collections, and this has undoubtedly created a certain cascad effect. If we take the Estonian market, we have a portion, say, of a dozen small farms where chinchillas are grown. This is mostly done alongside other core activities. Whether it's a farmer or someone else who's completely out of business, getting the main part of the sales revenue from everything else and keeping a couple together. The only such large industrial company is Baltic Bearskin, located near Keila, which is a mammoth belonging to Finland, perhaps someone has seen it physically? And he has been the most marked examples of the decline in this sector within Estonia. Understandably, in 2018, this company has made some EUR 2.5 million in losses, and last year it has made nearly EUR 1 million. The company has approved a recovery plan and basically breathes at the border of death, just like its creatures. As a result, as a whole, we have reached a situation where the sector, with its demise, has reached a point where it is reasonable for the country to make a fundamental decision, to signal that we are not making any more investments in this sector, and we are drawing this thing to the end. The Keepers themselves have made these decisions anyway. For these chinchilla keepers, too, the Food and Veterinary Office table, you see, here at the back end, the words "will stop." So about half of those who still operate today have 50 animals, who have 70 animals, who have quite a few, 12 animals, 8 animals, etc. plan to actually cease their activities. It would be wise to take this decision at this stage of the economic cycle in order to have the least socio-economic impact possible. Now, briefly, the final argument, which has been added to the previous one, is COVID. In fact, there is still much uncertainty about how the virus has been transmitted from animal to human in the case of mints. Some farms are thought to have been invisible reservoirs of the corona virus, where the disease may have spread between the mints and then at some point spread to the entire population. And on this basis, millions of animals have been massacred in a number of countries, such as the Netherlands and Denmark, this summer. This is precisely because of the fear that it might pose a threat to public health. There are no mints in Estonia at the moment. But some kind of farming permit exists on farms, so this argument is undoubtedly important. Since this business is largely loss-making, we have foreseen in the draft a beautiful short transitional closure decision: three years. So by 2023, that could happen. As initiators, we are ready to negotiate this deadline when the decision to ban the Riigikogu in principle comes to the conclusion. Finally, given that this is an anti-environmental and unethical way of producing products of vanity, and given that this industry has no significant socio-economic impact at present, it can be said that there is no better time, ladies and gentlemen, to finally make this decision. Let us continue to deal with this bill and agree with a couple of remaining fur farmers as soon as this business is completed. As has been said, most will voluntarily end this year anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U7	Thank you very much, dear waitress. You have questions. Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, I would like you to address this subject with a slightly broader perspective. And namely, if we go this way with other European countries and ban the functioning of fur farms, have you analysed the risk of all this business moving to third countries? Of course, these countries have very little control over how these animals are kept. And how, in the end, can it be combated because, at least in European countries, there is some kind of control?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U9	Thank you! This is one of the global arguments in the context of environmental requirements. Contamination industries use the claim that society is trying to save its environment as a counter argument, but look, it's moving somewhere else and then it's actually getting worse. These arguments are used, for example, for electricity generation and some metalworking plants: see, we cannot raise our environmental protection standards here, because then production will be moved elsewhere. I have heard this argument in Estonian forestry policy, for example: Estonia cannot reduce the cutting of its forests, because then it will be cut in Belarus. To some extent, it is undoubtedly true that such a movement is taking place. Well, like Finland, a large farm has come here, there are undoubtedly many industries that have moved from Western Europe to Eastern Europe. Once the countries of Eastern Europe have raised their environmental standards, they have moved on to third countries. But in general, these regulations, although with reference, have had a domino effect: in Western Europe standards will be raised, in some time, they will be raised in Eastern Europe and then, in the end, they will actually be raised in Asia. Look at the same example of China that has been set out in this context. We have exported our environmental damage and emissions to China on a massive scale, we, that is, the Western World But when it became intolerable for their own inhabitants, they too began to raise their standards. So in this sense, in an undoubtedly global picture, that is the argument. It must be ensured that environmental dumping does not take place as a whole. But I certainly do not regard this as an argument against tightening environmental requirements in Estonia or in other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U10	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You mentioned the number of animals around 2,000, but I think it's a little inaccurate because it's a number indicating the size of the main herd. The number of animals in itself is many times higher. But the focus of my question is not on this, but on the possible transitional period proposed by you. You actually referred most to ethics in your presentation and said that this is the most important starting point. Would it not be more ethical for us to put an end to these farms immediately and to compensate operators for the costs they have made? Why let it work for two more years and then... Wouldn't it make more sense to do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U12	Thank you! There can be undoubtedly discussions on this subject. It is also a question of how this possible agreement should be assessed with a financial equivalent. I've taken out the annual reports for all the fur farms. Some of them have had negative equity over several years. The last few years show that they have made losses, and the forecast for the following years is that losses will be made. With what amount, then, should the State compensate for losses? Undoubtedly, I do not want to underestimate the fact that some companies have made investments, even in 2013. However, given the collapse of the market which followed a year later and which has been colossal, it is certainly investment that has gone sour, which is part of the business risk. So the vast majority, or rather not the majority, but the whole industry has disappeared today. These investments have gone sour because of the global market situation, not because of national regulation. Well, now the question is, if we say at this final stage that we could end it completely under certain conditions, what is the legitimate expectation of some kind of financial agreement? I think we can discuss this. I certainly do not have an iron point of view here, I am not a specialist in this area, but I believe that if Parliament has made a fundamental decision to move forward on this issue, then it is worthwhile for the Ministry of Rural Affairs to look at this issue as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U13	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I actually have two questions together. First: Can you tell us what is done with fur produced in Estonia? Where do they end up, who needs them? The biggest producer is probably Baltic Fur, I understand. And the other half of the question: besides the skins, there is a part of the production of meat or, in the case of fur production, it is a residual product. What about it? What do they do with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U15	Bear keepers themselves have said that hides are being disposed of at auctions. There is no other independent sales activity. When the skins are ready, they are sent to Copenhagen or somewhere else for auction and sold to buyers from all over, who make most of them fashion products, both clothing and some other things. The second question concerned the meat that fur animals eat. Or the flesh that remains of them after they've been killed? Got it. Well, when fur farms are banned, the problem of disposal of waste will be resolved, so there will be no more fur farms, there will be no animals, and consequently the biowaste of dead inhabitants will no longer have to be treated. But they are generally handled as farm animal waste is handled. Little Maarja can do it, as I understand. I rarely speak on matters where I'm not a specialist until the end, but I'm telling you what I learned about this subject. In Väike-Maarja, as I understand it, the level of the development of these waste is quite low and, as a result, certain farm animal waste is transferred to Finland, where it is possible to secondaryise some of these waste in agriculture. I don't know if I answered the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U16	Marek Jürgenson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question is this, because you mentioned that you have had many substantive discussions on this subject. Did the debate also have such a question as to ban the sale of fur products?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U18	No, there was no such discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U19	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U20	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I have listened to today's first questions, and I cannot get rid of the feeling that there are very many important drafts in this Chamber where the details are important. There must be no one between the gears in the social system. Whether we are talking about the reform of the pharmacy or about the second pension pillar, the Aliens Act is very detailed, which ultimately determines the impact of the law. In the case of the Coronian theme, such a detail is all about the sharing of health data. This impact is finally very great and there should be a very, very thorough debate about it in this Chamber. However, there are other topics where such an ad valorem signal is much more important than individual details. For example, children's access to psychiatric assistance, which has not been able to discuss again in this Chamber for a long time. And now, in the case of the ban on fur farms, let's talk about whether the owner of the 30 Chinchillas will get the information on whether it's fair to him... But we can't do it for these few...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U21	Dear colleague, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U22	... to ensure that the animals are kept in accordance with the current requirements. Does it seem to you that this is a simple decision that should be made in this Chamber and that we should not get caught up in details but send a value-based signal to society?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U23	Thank you! I certainly like the parliamentary debate to be alive. But now, as the third Member of Parliament, as an experienced colleague, I can say that there is a certain tendency to parliamentary debate. If, for one reason or another, the political group has decided that a rather good thing must be voted down, then people in this Chamber still have a strong conscience and they must find some reason why they do not support it. And then they say that otherwise I would basically support it, but look here at § 3 (4), I don't know if this is the right thing. So, of course, we must respect our fellow Members' desire to reduce their consciences.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U24	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U25	Thank you. I must say, there were a lot of half-truths to be heard here. From where you look, that's the answer you get, like you're always alive here. I don't quite understand. It's like we're talking in the Animal Protection Act about the protection of fur animals, we're talking about footprints, all kinds of other things. So why ban the dying industry if it fades anyway? Is this bill now for the protection of fur animals or for the ego of guardians? It's just an idea. But I would like to ask you that the production of fur is still dependent on consumer behaviour and we all know that China currently very intensively buys the main herd together, creates farms. Do you think it is in the interest of the protection of fur animals if fur animals are actually reared in third countries? As a note, I would also like to say that chinchilla meat is edible. So let's be precise about these things. And another comment: the waste from the food industry is already partly going to China, because our own livestock farming has shrunk. So it's a more complex subject than we're talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U26	Thank you! If anyone accuses me of making false claims, I would ask for the factual accuracy of where those false claims were. I never said chinchilla meat couldn't eat. I have once been in a country where guinea pigs could be eaten. They weren't delicious, but they could eat. Mankind has historically eaten many different things. So let's just keep it that way. Now, this is a very strange claim that the welfare of fur animals can only be guaranteed if kept in cages. I would like to compare this argument with the statement that the cessation of slavery will certainly not improve the welfare of slaves, because then there will be no more slaves. So if you want to improve the welfare of slaves, you don't want to ban slaves. I don't think that's the correct argument. It's a question of what, isn't it? In fur farms, as I correctly pointed out in my report, it is, of course, theoretically possible to guarantee animal welfare. This is not done in fact because it will no longer be possible for the industry to continue economically. Indeed, some countries have chosen the path of significantly raising animal welfare requirements in fur farms and, as a result, these farms have been closed down. This business has become uneconomical. So I have not said that this cannot be done, but I have said that this cannot be done in the current state of the global market. They cannot even profit from the current minimum and inadequate welfare standards, so what we are talking about is that they should be tightened up. So if there are specific concerns or factual objections, I would also ask for them to be worded factually, not estimated.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U27	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U28	Good manager and waitress! Good Evgeny, you're playing so politely right now, button up and all. But those organisations that deal with it are talking about torture, and the attack groupers who, at the same time, are giving fire to real-life bear breeders, both silver foxes and chinchilla growers, are sending such messages: "It is time to free the animals and put an end to their criminal activity on the animals. We won't leave until you've been punished for killing animals. It's time to close the doors. Don't even think you're gonna lose your sentence. You won't be without punishment. " Is this campaign related to your bill and its initiators or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U29	Thank you. No, it's not. It's a factual answer. A little extension to this side. There are undoubtedly members of both Estonian and other societies who are not able to communicate politely. There are also those who are indeed very belligerent in some matters. Very belligerent! I have also met those in your group who are very rude and militant towards certain people. And I don't approve, I agree with you. Certainly, the issue of banning fur farms should also be resolved in a civilised manner, based on all the laws of the Republic of Estonia, and the more cooperatively, the better. Thank you, Peter!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U30	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U31	Thank you very much. Good, Evgeny, I would like to ask you this question, which Merry Aart referred to here earlier. He referred to the fact that it has repeatedly been mentioned here that it is an industry that has actually died. It's the way those words sounded sour, nonexistent, very small, meaningless, disappears. And Riina Sikkut said we're talking about some kind of 30 chinchillas. If this thing is so pathetic and fading and almost extinct, why are we even doing this? It's going to go out. Question one. And the second question, of course, that comes with us, is that if we set any regulations, then we should still be communicating with different interest groups in advance. One category is definitely the people who are fighting for animal rights, but the other is the people who are involved in this industry. No matter what, there are 100, 1,000 or 10,000 of them, I can't tell you what the number is, who does it, but are they in tune with them? And if so, what is their opinion of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U32	Thank you. There are 17 livestock farmers in Estonia. The largest of these is Baltic Bear, and most of the rest are chinchilla growers. As has been said, most of them deal with this alongside other agricultural sectors. At some point, when fur prices were on the rise because of the same increase in the Chinese market that has been mentioned here, it was thought that a small investment could be made here for some time, and many did so. Now, there's six of those 17 without animals, so there's 11. And he's also planning to end up with six, so there's five tutors left. The total number of animals that should remain, apart from the Baltic Fur, which is the only large fur producer in the process of being rehabilitated near Keila, is around 300-400. I'm not going to go ahead with this, but this table has been sent from the VTA, and I'd be happy to share it with you, my good colleague. There was a question of whether fur farmers had been subdued and involved in this process. The answer is yes. This debate took place twice in Parliament when this draft was prepared. One time, under the leadership of Mr Tamme, was in the Committee on Rural Affairs, where we discussed the popular initiative on this subject. There were farmers' representatives and one on the leather park. The second time that this issue was in the debate with stakeholders was when we reached an agreement in the Committee on the Environment that we would immediately involve stakeholders before the first reading, because this has come from Parliament and there have been no rounds of coordination at government level on this issue. There were interest groups there too. So we are well acquainted with these positions and the situation in the two committees, I would say that. These people didn't see much enthusiasm for their business. It's true. The situation is difficult for them. And you can see that these moods are in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U33	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! You have criticised the fact that there are many false claims around this subject and such claims are created, well, I would even say, not half-truths, but myths. However, if you listen to your report, you will join the same company yourself. It's a very clear lie now that some cage has a size of 10 x 25 cm and that it meets the standards. So much for a simple comment. But why do you still not agree that we could go down the German road, for example? Perhaps we are really based on animal welfare and are not going to force, force, simply eliminate one or the other thing, but to create conditions that we consider to be right from the point of view of the species as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U35	Thank you! I didn't accuse the bill of presenting pro-sisters or myths. When you listened to my presentation, I was talking about the fact that there is often a demagogical argument that might be called, or called, a'slime slope' argument: that if we take this step, what happens next. It's not the correct way to argue, but some people use it. Look over your left shoulder, good colleague! In today's Postman, Mr Ernits said that if we ban these fur farms, we will all start eating vegetarian food. If you read the explanatory memorandum page of this draft... There are no pages here unfortunately... One, two, three... On page four, you don't have a bill in front of you? Oh, it is! There is such a title as "The behavioural needs of fur animals" and reference is made to Decree No 88 of the Minister of Agriculture of 2010. Being on the remote now, I can't open it here, but you can.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U36	Kaido Höökelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, However, we are talking about a declining industry. If most farms are already coming to an end and so maybe they're thinking about reorganizing, why do we have to get involved? Because if we intervene, it means an obligation on the state. Do you have any idea how much the country still has to compensate these farmers if we go down this road to ban fur farms? That's a first. And secondly, at the beginning of your presentation, you also talked about the fact that it concerns only fur farms. What do you say we ban these fur farms, which we'll go after next? Is it cattle breeding, caged chickens, zoos or Oss chips made out of pork rind?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U38	Thank you. I think I answered the first question by answering Mr Kruus. This concerns these benefits. Indeed, this question was raised by Mr Kruus at the meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs. Why are we giving a transitional period? I'd close the farms right away, but I'd agree on how to compensate them for the investments they've made. As I said, I am not a specialist in this area, but when we look at the economic performance of these companies, it is very difficult to assess the level of compensation for lost profits. But there's no doubt the Ministry should think this through. There's no question about that. As regards where to go next, I think that all members of the Riigikogu, after voting on this vote, have a free choice and a free mandate to go wherever they want. I'm going to come back to the remote and present another bill to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U39	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U40	Thank you. I also consider the quality of the debate to be extremely important. After all, this argument of shifting production to Asia or elsewhere is not absolute! In the same way, we could say that because of the use of child labour in Asia, we put our children to work, then Asian children have to do less work. This is not something that could affect our decision when we discuss this draft. The second point concerns the size of the cage. Since there are square centimeters, Mr Hepner is right: this cage really is larger than the area mentioned in the remote control. But what I'm asking you is, it was about eating chinchillas. I haven't done this and I don't have a plan like that, but when we talk about the circumstances, is it really the meat of these animals in bear farms that will be given to live animals later to eat?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U41	To tell you the truth, I started reading about some kind of drills that I've been saying wrong numbers about them, and I didn't hear the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U42	I still don't give you a chance to repeat. Natalia Malleus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Can you tell us how much of the fur production is realised in Estonia and how much elsewhere and where exactly?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U44	Thank you. I am certainly not the right person to answer this, but as I said in the answer to another question: the fur producers themselves that we had on the committees said that basically everything goes directly to the auctions. There will be no direct sales in Estonia. Even if someone wanted to use fur in Estonia, for example, to use processed fur to produce something, it generally goes through the same auctions that take place in Copenhagen and elsewhere. So if you ask, how many skins are disposed of in Estonia, then almost zero-pound most of it goes out. So much I can say after reading the annual reports prepared by the farms that they all say that production is moving out of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U45	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U46	Dear waitress, In 2016, the EKRE proposed to amend the Law on the Protection of Animals, which aimed to prohibit "halal-killing." Unfortunately, in the case of religious tradition, our Animal Protection Act continues to allow the killing of animals that have not previously been stunned, by way of exception. The largest religious killing took place in Lääne-Viru County in 2011 when 572 sheep were killed there. In 2016, the Social Democrats did not come along with this important animal protection initiative. In the meantime, have you changed your mind and support such a bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U47	Thank you. I must say that I am not a specialist in this field and do not remember this initiative from then on. But without doubt, if the Ministry of Rural Affairs, led by the EKRE, brings such a proposal to the Riigikogu, we will certainly shape our position on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U48	Peter Ernits, another question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U49	Good manager! Good waitress! Let's talk ethics! As a livestock farmer, I quote to you one such sentence: "Breadstocking can no longer be considered to be deplorable than other existing livestock systems, so we find that there is no ethical basis for banning only fur production. " The writer of the quote is Professor David Arney of Animal Welfare at the University of Earth. And my question is this: doesn't this country university or Estonia's only animal welfare professor know what he's saying, or is wisdom in your head and in the head of your good colleagues who initiated this bill? Or in the heads of the attack squads that are standing outside the house right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U50	I don't know how you see any attacks everywhere, Peter, and the people who commit them. We live in a completely peaceful society, completely civilized about different issues. But you always feel like you're under attack. To be honest with you, this question is starting to go beyond mental health. But as far as a particular quote is concerned, since I don't know the context, I'm certainly not going to dissect it more widely here. True, people may have different ethical considerations. Knowing the same facts, there are different ethical considerations and beliefs. It would be good if it were really that the ethical picture was formed in a consistent, coherent way, but not always in all cases. But the reason why I disagree with this particular ethical assessment is because of what I have already explained by introducing the draft. I am certainly not speaking on behalf of all the initiators here. The people who signed this draft have different considerations, including different ethical considerations. But for me, the difference is that the meat industry meets one of mankind's basic needs, food, food production. The fur industry does not do this, but it satisfies people's vanity by means of a global fashion industry. In my opinion, it is not necessary and justified to cause suffering to animals for this purpose and to cause serious damage to the environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U51	Paul Woodland, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U52	Thank you very much. We're talking about animal suffering here. That's the right thing to do! But we are still talking about the suffering of the people involved in these animals, we are talking about livestock farmers. I understand that these producers are very few, that we are currently dealing with a problem that is almost non-existent in our economy. Farms are 17, six have already shut down production, six are planning to shut down, five are left. But yes, Kaido Haevalson referred to the very right problem. Very often people love to talk about the need to take account of the principle of legitimate expectations, but in this case, it is lacking in the case of their growers. That's the question of compensation. In a situation where we close down some kind of industry, okay, be it six or 16 years, compensation is still a very important issue, and I understand that you do not deny it. But my question goes a little bit in the other direction. If we shut down these farms, there's animals out there, and we have to get rid of them somehow. So are we going to do mass killing somehow, or how are we going to get rid of these animals? We don't let them into nature. What do we do with these animals?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U53	These animals will end up like they would find without changing the regulation of fur farms. When we talk about a fox, they put one electrode in his mouth and the other in his anus. And that would happen to the 2,000 animals that live in Keila. But that's gonna get us there so we don't do it again. But your earlier line reminded me that I did not answer Mr Hepner's question concerning the tightening of the requirements. As has been said, tightening the requirements actually gives the same effect. Why do I not support it, but support a clear decision? It's actually out of respect for these furry farmers. What we are fooling about is that we are now going to carry out some kind of analysis, review welfare standards and gradually tighten up the requirements in order to quietly dismantle production. They're already on the verge of an economic collapse, so there's no point in fooling around like that. If this decision has been made for environmental and ethical reasons, if there are no economic arguments against it, then we will agree with them on what time we will shut this sector down, and that is it. People who have done their jobs legally and honestly must be treated with dignity, I think.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U54	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U55	Thank you. Without reading this regulation of the Minister for Agriculture mentioned here, I think Heiki Hepner and Riina Sikkut are wrong when they said that the cage size is not 10 × 25 cm. It's probably a quarter of a square meter or something. But that's it. I'm interested in the quality of argument. For me, however, the reason for this draft and the reason for signing it are purely ethical. Everything else is involved. For example, adding a corona to this list is a little overrated, it doesn't have much proof yet. But how does this ethical statement link that, since the branch is fading, it must be banned? I guess that actually makes it easier to lose it, but it doesn't make it any more ethical. Don't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U56	I'm trying to figure out if it's a trick question. That's undoubtedly what I was trying to say. It just makes it easier. For you, this may not be a counter-argument in this context, but legitimately, the lack of employment of people and the lack of economic activity are, in my view, a counter-argument when, in different situations, a compromise has to be sought, for example, between the objectives of environmental protection and economic activity. This is the same in many areas. Which is more important in this situation? Well, it's also a bit of a weather-view issue, which maybe everyone doesn't agree with you and me. But in the present case, yes, indeed, it has become easier, because the main counter argument that has been raised so far no longer stands, but ethical arguments are still competent.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U57	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U58	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I'm going to ask you again the question Riina Sikkut asked, but you missed it. The meat of foxes killed in fox farms, for example, is supposed to be processed and fed to foxes waiting to follow. Is this statement true?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U59	As far as I know, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U60	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U61	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I don't really have a question. I would like to talk a little bit about why last time I was on this subject, I was in favour of not supporting this draft, and why I support it this time. The difference is that last time those lobby groups who have carried and supported this bill began to spam the members of the Riigikogu, including me. I got hundreds, if not thousands of exactly the same content for us, and it just got on my nerves that it couldn't. However, in essence, I could have supported this draft at the time. Now they called me a week or two ago, and I said if you're not gonna spam, I'm gonna back you up. They've kept their promise, I've kept mine too. But I remember, Evgeny, you were critical of me when I said that last time. And now I expect you to say a little praising about how this campaign has been done this time and how people can adjust their hearts, minds and worldviews to make the right decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U62	You want me to fuck you up, Valdo? You're good! But I do indeed agree that interest protection organisations have done this interest protection work very well. Indeed, there are some methods that have perhaps seemed effective in the past, but it has proved that they are not. They've been abandoned and done something that works better. However, I must say that a member of the Riigikogu could be sufficiently strong to think about the content of the question, what is the right decision, and not so much about what letters he has received in his own mailbox and how many of them have been there. But good for you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U63	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U64	Thank you. I would like to make it clear that I did not say that I heard lies. I said I heard half-truths. There's a small difference, whether it's a WelFur certificate or the opinions of different scientists. But that's it. I didn't get an answer to my question. Here, too, ethics was raised. If we push bear breeding into third countries, do we sincerely believe that we are doing fur animals a good deed in terms of their protection?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U65	Yeah, I believe that. In fact, I also addressed this question by answering Mrs Jufereva-Skuratovski's question. Indeed, we see negative environmental impacts being exported to developing countries from Western European countries or from more developed countries. It's one of the truths of global capitalism, isn't it? Going where it's easier to do business, including cheaper. Environmental requirements also dictate the price, as we have discussed here today. But for me, the fact that it is possible that this industry is shifting to another country is not a counter argument for making these decisions here. Our ability to influence China's environmental requirements is limited, to say the least. But what is happening in the Republic of Estonia, we have an influence. And the fact that we cannot influence what is happening in China is not, in my opinion, an argument for not doing our work in Estonia. I just don't think it's like that. However, as a small nuance, I would add that we can continue to influence the welfare of fur animals in China, as Estonian people, as consumers, by not consuming fur products. And that's what I'm sure I'm inviting you all to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U66	Marek Jürgenson, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U67	Good chairman of the sitting! Good waitress! In your speech, you also mentioned farming, its conditions. But in fact, you did not answer the question of a good colleague, Kaido Haevalson, whether you have any plans to do anything else in the near future. Then I ask you: do your group have plans to come up with a change in the conditions of farming in the near future? This would certainly weaken the competitiveness of Estonian farmers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U68	The answer is no.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U69	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U70	Thank you. First of all, I think that a member of the Riigikogu should be so strong that he does not give the impression that the approval of the drafts can be extorted by spam. That, by the way, was one of the reasons for not voting last time, too. But I'd like to help you add a little bit to the argument with my question today. Can we say that chinchilla, or I, somehow helps to satisfy people's basic needs? Is this necessary to meet basic needs? There was also criticism that the text of the draft text states: it is forbidden to keep these animals primarily for fur production purposes. What about the meat now? Can we do without chinchilla meat in the future, or are we in big trouble?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U71	I don't see any reason why we shouldn't make it without chinchilla meat. If we have so far, I think we can continue to do so, Mr. Ligi. But when it comes to the draft why it uses the wording'mainly for fur production', it is actually because some colleagues have raised the issue of meat animals. We have farm animals that are kept for meat and skin purposes. A sheep, for example, whose purpose is not only to obtain meat but also to produce clothing, might say. And rabbits are other meat animals, but their skin can also be used. So it's actually the opposite. The question has arisen here: is there any way that the Estonian agriculture is now being pushed into the wider domain by any further restrictions. No, as I said, this bill basically does not deal with these issues. But if Mr Jürgenson and others want to deal with it, there are certainly formats and forms to do so. But this bill goes out of the scope.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U72	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U73	Thank you very much. I now freshly heard such a statement that we could set an example and not consume fur products. Today, one of Estonia's greatest problems in nature conservation is that the number of our small predators is extremely high. All such claims are actually damaging to Estonian nature. Do you agree with me or do you not? Today we are creating the background that the number of small predators is not being reduced in Estonia's forests.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U74	Thank you. I think when you read it out of my statement, I made myself inaccurate. I certainly did not want to touch on hunting questions in my answers. However, the fact is that 90% or 99% of fur products, I don't know, come from industrial farming. And in that sense, I said, 'I don't think I used the word'model', 'we can actually, as consumers, help to improve the welfare of animals from fur farms in China as well.' It's just that these animals will be reduced if we consume less fur. That, I think, is appropriate. The way in which to limit or control the number of different hunting animals, the measures to be taken, I must say that I am ignorant of this issue. I certainly have not wanted to form a position on this issue. Let's just keep it that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U75	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U76	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I must admit that I have felt relatively safe working here in the Riigikogu. Thank you very much to the house's security services, who have been completely unnoticed to ensure the safety of everyone! Right now, today is a very interesting situation: a number of supporters of this bill have gathered on the balcony and two police officers are standing behind them. And there are two more armed officers on both sides of the balcony door. My question is this: in pure Estonian, what kind of bullshit are you planning on doing in addition to reporting this bill here? We already have some experience when your party leader, Indrek Saar, used an explosive device in this very hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U77	Yes, Mr Grünthal, I know that you have been helped not only by police surveillance but also by protecting the raincoat from the corona virus. So in that sense, I'm glad you feel safe. As far as the security of the Riigikogu is concerned, this is something I think we could let professionals do their job. One might ask if the Prime Minister must always have a security guard next to him when he comes to the Riigikogu. It's not like any of my colleagues are going to attack him here, is it? Probably don't. And perhaps there is no point in politically discussing issues that do not require political decision. Let the professionals do their job. And these people who are on the balcony are very pleasant and peaceful, which cannot be said of all the people who are in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U78	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U79	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! First of all, of course, I would like to thank you for your praise. It came from the heart and went to the heart! What about the question? Evgeny, I hope you don't think I'm setting you up, and maybe you can't answer. If you can't tell me. I don't know the answer either, so I'm asking. According to the explanatory memorandum to this draft, Sweden has only partially banned fur farms. I am a little surprised that it seems that we are going ahead of Sweden on this issue. All the more so since, in fact, this whole animal protection issue began to some extent in Sweden 40 years ago when Astrid Lindgren erected it very seriously and very gratefully. Everyone knows that free - running chickens lay better eggs, and happy cows milk better milk. And, in fact, Sweden has been at the forefront in this sense, but now it seems that we are indeed ripping ahead of them. What's the score in Sweden? Why have they only partially banned what it means and do they also have a plan to completely ban it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U80	Thank you! In the Nordic countries in general, fur farms have historically been an important industry, so in this sense it is in some way understandable why they reach decisions harder. Let's say the social discussions that lead to these decisions take time. Finland, for example, has not made this decision either. At the same time, the current Finnish Prime Minister's party, the Social Democrats, has decided that they will support it. It is now a historic decision for Finland's socialists, but there is probably no real consensus in the government yet in order to make that decision in Finland. As far as Sweden is concerned, I am reading from here, I hope that this is correct information, which I will read, that they will gradually stop the activities of foxes and chinchilla farms. So they've moved on by some kind of species, and I guess that's the same thing in Denmark. It's about the foxes. So, let's say, half-steps like that. And Estonia would get ahead of the ethical treatment of animals from Sweden, Finland and Denmark, at least from this point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U81	Kaido Höökelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Since most of us know what's made of artificial leather, here's my two little questions. What do you think is the biggest advantage of an artificial leather in front of a fur? And secondly, which kind of production is more nature-friendly?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U83	It's... I have addressed this issue in part, but it certainly deserves a more thorough approach as well. As far as this is concerned, now we are talking about whether we are talking about fur or just leather that is being given shoes. These are different skin, right, and both are possible... Also fur, you can call it artificial fur as well as natural fur, right? But if we're talking about oil-based fur that looks like natural, but it's not, then I'm also surprised that the carbon footprint on natural skin, fur farm skin, is actually more than ten times larger. The reason is that you need to produce food for these animals, and that requires a lot of resources. And since they're animal-eating, it actually increases this ecological footprint in a colossal way. I can show you from this Dutch study, which is quoted in the explanatory memorandum, these are the columns, right? This fur is down here, it's some kind of skin specifically, and all the other alternatives, including artificial alternatives that are oil-based, are on the other end. So to tell you the truth, there's nothing to say. You could comment or, let's say, appreciate that art products are from oil, are, it's not nature-friendly material in itself, etc., but while we take fur, it's impressive to make it a product, the amount of chemicals that are poured onto it. In fact, in terms of pollution, he's losing that advantage because if you don't dip him in the chemicals, he'll rot. So here, unfortunately, yes, surprisingly, one must say that what could be called a natural fur is more and more negative in terms of its environmental impact.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U84	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U85	Thank you for the floor. Thank you, Evgeny, for your very thorough and explanatory answers. I have an idea. Interestingly, listening to these discussions, it is clear that it is the most conservative wing of this hall that is exerting the greatest defiance against such a bill. Have they not in any way been addressed in these discussions by this argument, which has proved in practice that the traditional natural balance in Estonia is also being violated through such fur farms? A vivid example of this is the American Mink, which has rejected the European mink. After all, this could be an argument for people who care about traditions, either in addition to ethical arguments or if they are not arguments. Question two. Please describe to us what the coalition will probably actually do with this law. The coalition does not seem to support it, but there are ambassadors who could support it, and so the voices could come together. In order to deal with this problem comfortably, we are likely to see a pattern of hanging on the shelf. Is this probably the fate of this bill again?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U86	Thank you! What a tradition people are defending here on my right hand, isn't it everyone's own appreciation, and also how they do it. But when it comes to ecological considerations, it is undoubtedly extremely important. I am quoting Tiit Maran again here because I am not a specialist in this field. Tiit Maran writes: "Mink is the most invasive mammals of foreign origin throughout Europe, known to affect more than 47 indigenous species. The main route for the Minks to enter the wild is the regular escape from the farms. Escaped from farms support those that have already naturalised in nature, making their impact on other species even stronger. " It has already had a very negative impact on biodiversity throughout Europe and also in Estonia. The fate of the bill. No, I'm not gonna predict that. There is no doubt that both the EKRE and the Members of the Fatherland have been consensual in their anti-naturalism, based on today's speeches. Whether they show it in the vote, you can see it, every ambassador is free. [[A voice from the hall.]] They are consistent in their anti-naturalism, using the Estonian word. In this sense, it is similar in other areas of environmental protection. For example, Mr Saaremäe, a member of the Committee on the Environment, said that he would very much like to proceed with this draft, but it was banned in the group, and he was very embarrassed about what he was doing. But at the same time, I have to say that from among the members of the Centre Party Group, several have signed this draft, for which I thank you, and also several Members who did not sign, have expressed their support for ethical reasons and have reached the same point, that today this industry is simply in such a state that it is practically over and that we are extending this agony more so that we can reach an agreement. So if the first reading were to be completed today and the draft procedure went on, I would hope that we will find a common language in order to clarify this implementing provision, in cooperation with the Ministry, this transitional period, whether or not there is any need to think about the matter of compensation. And make that historic decision, though.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U87	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U88	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, As we know, the European Union is paying very much attention to animal welfare. Also in Estonia today, for example, during the rearing of pigs, the farmers who care for the welfare of the pigs will receive additional support. There's been a lot of talk about chickens. For example, caged chickens are soon banned and will be moved to perch, to free-range chickens. This is an emotional issue across Europe. Recently, the Polish Government fell apart because of the same question and a minority government was formed. I hope that this will not happen in Estonia. But here's my question. Do the initiators also agree that the transitional deadline could be discussed? You've foreseen three years. Could it be longer, for example? Are you ready to discuss this and take these suggestions into account between two readings?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U89	Thank you, Tarmo! The last sentence of the explanatory memorandum to this draft states that the initiators are prepared to specify the transitional deadline during the procedure. So we are really open to this debate. This fundamental decision should be taken. Whether this happens in three, four or five years is more of a question of detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U90	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No more questions for you. Second waitress, I would like to ask Peeter Ernitsa, member of the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U91	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Security, I understand, is armed. If that is the case, this is probably the first time, in the practice of my Riigikogu, that such security measures have been taken when introducing a draft. I think that if this is the case, but I have no doubt about it, then my claims and the word 'attack squads' may not be in the wrong place. But this morning our group met an organizational activist. I can't get over it until now, when used... [[A voice from the hall.]] Yeah, it's about to start. The words used were that they were characterized by greed, stupidity, avantyrism, and torture. But now we are going to the discussions in the Committee on the Environment. These discussions took place twice. There could have been one time, but the first time there were no interest groups, the second time there were. State officials (representatives of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications) were on both occasions. So, actually, we abused their time twice, but their story was one. I am not going to quote exactly later, but the position of all the representatives of the three ministries was clear: there is no basis for abolishing the rearing of fur animals and supporting this bill. Of course, every ministry had its own arguments. The Ministry of the Environment had environmental conditions in place, the Ministry of Economic Affairs once again emphasised the freedom of business and that it was unacceptable to intervene, the Ministry of Rural Affairs had its own arguments. Unfortunately, these two protocols, which perhaps have been read by some colleagues, do not sufficiently reflect these discussions, not to say, are relatively general. For example, my first comment and my appeal to the author of the bill, Mr Ossinovski, was that as an educational zoologist, I was deeply disturbed by the Latin names of American mink, red fox and three species of chinchillas written on top of each other. It's the same as, good Evgeny, I'd write your name Evgeniossinovski in one word. I asked you to fix it, but the bill still looks like it. Chinchillas are known to be of three kinds, but somehow Chinchillabrevikaudata and Chinchillaanigera have been put into one word. A little detail, but it shows recklessness. And for those of you who feel a little bit about it, it doesn't matter. But unfortunately, this is not included in the protocol. That is the one and not the last thing that is not included in the protocol. But let's get started. The first time was on 21 September and then all the members of the Commission were present. Read them: Yoko Alender, Heiki Kranich, Igor Kravtšenko, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Siim Pohlak, Üllar Saaremäe, Mart Võrguship, of course chairman of the committee Erki Savisaar, me too. The same was the second time, on 28 September. But like I said, the first time there were no interest groups. I see no reason to present the text of the initiator of the bill, Mr Ossinovski, because a moment ago he spoke quite a bit about all this. But if the good colleagues have a wish, I can read it again. Kaupo Sempelson, of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, said that as little restrictions should be imposed on entrepreneurship as possible. That's his point of view. This, of course, was repeated a week later. Pille Tammemägi, representing the Ministry of Rural Affairs, said that there is no reason to ban fur farms if they guarantee the welfare of animals and meet the requirements for keeping and killing them, and that it is important for businesses to know the longer term perspective so that they can make investments, etc. I drew attention at the time, and I am also pointing out that the protocol does not reflect once again that, in fact, workers in this sector have been living under constant fear for years. These messages, one of which I read out, which was one of several at the meeting with Karjaküla employees, are coordinated and continuous. Hotels are currently in a relatively low state, but imagine if hotel managers were to receive messages in the same way that the punishment is pending and inevitable. It is indeed difficult to make the investments referred to by Pille Tammemägi, the representative of the Ministry of Rural Affairs. It's surrounded it, too. Chinchilla was only a few years ago much bigger. This concerns South Estonia in particular, and also my constituency. This is an excellent extra service, because there is no need for land, a small space with a temperature of 14 degrees is needed, and it is possible to live up to a great deal or at least receive additional service. Now, as a result of all this, they want to end it. So fortress, fortress of continuing entrepreneurship. The atmosphere of fear has been created. This is the third time I have taken part in this debate in the Riigikogu. So all these years, it's been happening, and in this atmosphere, it's really relatively complicated. Not everyone has such a cold stomach, and in the end, everyone thinks about their investment by doing what it means. Those who have been to Karjaküla Farm have seen that the double gardens that have been built are quite expensive. As a mammal investigator, I can assure you that no one will escape. The stain extends to a metre below the ground, the live fishing traps are sometimes, etc., the wind howls there. The investments have been made, but they've gone to the wind. You could say there's no go. So this is the business certainty that the representative of the Ministry of Rural Affairs talked about twice. Merike Linnamägi, of the Ministry of the Environment, said that for the last five years all farms have been in full compliance with the requirements, and also noted that the Ministry of the Environment has introduced stricter requirements than the European Union, which would protect nature. At the moment, the Ministry does not consider that bear rearing should be banned. We're talking about mints first. It's an alien species, just like a raccoon. We don't grow raccoons, but in some places we grow raccoons. So if there is no one who could escape (but, as I said, the chances of escaping from these farms are more theoretical), then silver foxes and chinchillas are not affected. So, on the one hand, investment security, business security, and, on the other hand, the so-called possible access of alien species to nature, which has been missing for the last few years. During the debate, I asked my good colleague, Mr Evgeni, which dying industries should still be banned. That's what I asked the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Of course, there is no way to think about it or think about it, no industry should be banned, and the diversity of the economy is a value in itself. But I don't think it's worth repeating. We were talking about what it's like to make up for it when you shut it down. In short, the answer was this: if this period were to be extended, there should actually not be any compensation at all. It's tens of millions, if you do it now. At the first meeting, my colleague, Heiki Kranich, asked whether the Ministry of Rural Affairs had considered tightening requirements for the natural extinction of fur animals, just as the CO2 quota has done to the oil shale sector. Mr Kranich also said that compensation should not be granted at all for the cessation of unethical activities. In that way, his opinion differed. Pille Tammemägi replied that the Ministry of Rural Affairs must both look after animal welfare and ensure the sustainability of entrepreneurship. At the moment, business requirements are agreed at the level of guidelines under the Council of Europe Convention. My colleague, Yoko Alender, examined what signals it would be reasonable to give to businesses in relation to fur farms. In addition, my colleague wanted to know how some people have arrived in Estonian nature. I'm not gonna talk about it for a long time, it's been written a lot, Tiit Maran's been talking about it and Rein Maran made a movie. I think most people have seen it many times, too. Jevgeni Ossinovski said that if the downward trend has been going on for years, he meant that there has been a reduction in fur farms, why delay the ban. A gradual ban will encourage companies to move to countries where business can be further pursued. That's actually the way it is. Merike Linnamägi said that the history of the arrival of mints and raccoons in Estonia is different. Cuckoos were found in Estonia before they were officially released, they crossed the border from there to the east. Some fell into the wild from farms where they escaped. But it was then. Who hasn't seen it, go see how powerful facilities near Karjaküla have been built, rusting or rusting. Then there was a very interesting discussion about what I discovered in the explanatory memorandum and I asked my colleague Ossinovski about it. I quote: "The European Commission's study points out that fur animals are not domesticated species and cannot be guaranteed even close to a species-specific life under intensive farming conditions. " It really bothered me, but it happened that I myself was a biologist, a zoologist, worked in a zoo for years, studied the behaviour of cage animals, published research on it, taught the language of animals for years to thousands of teachers, directors, etc., and I have also been a geneticist. If I hear that kind of nonsense, I'm gonna say it straight. I quoted to my colleague Ossinovski an article by our most famous geneticist, academician Richard Villems, in Postimees from 11 February 2015. By the way, the similar story is about the feather of one of our leading psychologist Jüri Allik who wrote on 17 May 2015 in Postimees on a similar subject. But I quote a few sentences, which I did in the committee, which the academic Villems said. The title was "Sex, violence and species domestication." "In the middle of the last century, Novosibirsk scientists began to study the domestication of foxes, more precisely silver foxes, than the process. After seven generations, behavioral changes were great, but with a few dozen generations, the desired was achieved: a line of silver foxes, which was not human, which was tamed by dogs. Behavior for behavior, but what happened morphologically, looking? But the following: (a) the ears began to fall; (b) the tail became shorter and tore in the ring (the animals of the house). You know how pigs are? (c) brain volume decreased (!). (In music, human brain volume has also decreased compared to Neanderthal. In addition, changes in the brain itself, including changes in the mandel nucleus that controls emotions. Peerization? " We are talking about Dmitri Beljayev, the long - term director of the Novosibirsk Science Centre, whose research began nowhere else than in Karjaküla. So the European Commission believes that these are not domestic animals. Academician Beljayev, academician Villems and many others have shown this. Whoever wants to read, read the monographs and other works of Academician Beljayev and his school. So there are things in the explanatory memorandum that do not correspond to reality. But why is it important, what we discussed in the Commission, who are these cage animals anyway? On the one hand, the drafters try to argue that these are wild animals that are being tortured under tight conditions. However, the other side, researchers, has shown very clearly that these are clearly domesticated animals. Domesticated animals, domestic animals have very different needs, conditions. They're trusting, they can be picked up, cute with them. By the way, the academic school in Beljayev has done the same with the red fox. See how the red foxes are cute, held in their arms, etc. So that's what's important. Their space needs are quite different. I studied animal behavior while working at the zoo. [[L. Kersna's talking about the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U92	A procedural question. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U93	I wanted to ask whether the rapporteur would give a group speech or whether he would give a speech by a representative of the Commission. I do not quite understand which speech we are hearing right now is what has taken place in the Commission and what has taken place in the rapporteur's head.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U94	Was that a question to me? Yeah, like I told you... Calm down, ladies and gentlemen. [[Voices in the hall.]] No, if it wasn't for me, I'll be quiet.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U95	Following the presentation, I have already had this question several times, but generally the President cannot have such a mandate to censor the rapporteurs. The rapporteur and the questioner shall be free to submit their texts. So I would simply ask the rapporteur to take into account that colleagues have such a remark that he should focus more on the presentation on behalf of the Commission. By the way, time's up, I'll draw attention. Would the waitress like to make some comments at last, or should we go to the questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U96	It really does not make sense to talk for a long time, but since these two meetings of the Commission are not reflected in the minutes, as I have already said, and in these Commission meetings I was one of the main speakers and questioners, that is the answer to you. I have not begun to add any other things, the only thing I have added is the three words of this morning's Creative Delegation that they said. Everything else is reflected in the meetings of the Commission. But there's one thing I'm gonna say. I asked (but unfortunately this is not reflected again in the protocol) the representatives of Nature and Invisible Animals how much so-called donations are being financed by these organisations and how much money has been received from abroad or from the state. I didn't get the answer, I only got the answer from the Invisible Animals that it's a single digit. I specified what this one digit was, whether it was nine euros, then it was said that it was a one-digit percentage. Now I can assure you that, unfortunately, it was wrong. In the financing of invisible animals, more than 40% of foreign money is available; in nature, it is smaller. So this is a very important part. The proportion of people who, for example, have contributed through Swedbank accounts is actually small. That's all I want to talk to you about. But I presented what happened at the committee meetings.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U97	Questions. Tiit Kala, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you for your thorough presentation. When I looked at the bill, I saw that it was going through that wild animals were kept in cages. In my opinion, wild animals are not currently kept in cages in Estonia. But the bill also states that the rabbit does not fall under the regulation of this bill, and the chinchilla does. They're very similar animals. Did you have a debate in the committee so that the chinchillas can put together with rabbits so that they do not fall under this regulation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U99	Besides everything else, we didn't discuss it, but it's important, because really, it's like we could eat both. The fact that there's no practice is a question of their own, but they're really related to a rabbit. In Latin America, I have also eaten guinea pig, like a good colleague, Evgeni. Chinchilla hasn't eaten, but she could have eaten.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U100	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U101	Thank you, Mr President. I am listening here to the rapporteur's accusations specifically about Commission officials that they have not been able to formalise the protocol correctly. My question is whether the officials of the Committee on the Environment will not send the members of the Committee on the Environment to review the protocol so that all the sentences they say in the committee can be correctly written. That is the way it works in the Committee on Legal Affairs. If you read and made a comment earlier, I do not want to believe that the Commission officials do not take your comments into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U102	No, I don't think so. But I have been in several committees during the Riigikogu's careers: the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Economic Affairs, Environment, the Special Committee on State Budget Control, etc. This culture varies widely between committees. Colleagues know that it is not at all that I... [[V. Thomas comments on the position.]] Yes, when we discussed in the previous composition what the protocols of the Riigikogu committees should be and whether they should be classified... [[V. Thomas comments on the position.]] Yeah, of course they're gonna check it out. But I... [[V. Thomas comments on the position.]] I've done them, but there's no point in doing it in the end. So, in fact, I am in favour and in favour of, in the previous composition, that the protocols should be as precise as possible, not so that they were spoken, they were answered. It bothers me to this day. Not only for history, the good colleague Aadu Black also agreed with me in the previous composition, that they should actually reflect what is happening behind the closed doors of the 'committees'. However, unfortunately, many committees have taken the easy way of resisting and saying who was performing and what was said. That is a more general question. It is not as if the officials of the Committee on the Environment are bad and would not want to do so. Of course, I really like them. My colleague resented my solo here. No solo. I was one of the main questioners and speakers at the meetings of the Commission. I have presented to you not everything that we have talked about (maybe it would have gone too long) and which unfortunately is not reflected in the minutes, I have presented what is basically important.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U103	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U104	Thank you! Honourable waitress! One more thing. I was at the hearings, so I took the floor and asked. I remember you guys talking a lot about what the protocol was about. In one of your talks at the committee meeting, you came up with a comparison between fur farms and homosexuality. You could shed some light on where you came up with these connections.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U105	I'd love to, good Evgeny! I didn't have time to tell you everything we talked about back there. It is a question of establishing a 'new normality' in different areas. The subject that you touched and I asked you about, but you kind of didn't answer well, that's one thing. The second is the transition to vegetarian food and the new normality or the fact that gender is a social construction, etc. It's a broader picture and in this context we, if you remember, talked, not in a way to stigmatize homosexuals or vegetarians etc. It was this parallel.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U106	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U107	Thank you. Do you, or do you suddenly remember what the Commission decided and how the decision was taken, in this general protocol of the lead committee? You didn't mention that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U108	Yeah, I'm sure it is, but I just didn't get a chance to talk about it. It was on September 21st, not 28th, when there was a follow-up hearing, where the parties were present. There, the chairman of the committee proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today and that the assembly be invited to close the first reading of the draft. The Commission voted on the proposal to close the first reading. The colleagues were Yoko Alender, Mart Võrguship, Heiki Kranich, Jevgeni Ossinovski. Four ambassadors opposed Erki Savisaar, Siim Pohlak, Igor Kravtšenko and I. Colleagues Üllar Saaremäe remained neutral. The president explained that, since the proposal for the first reading could not be closed by a majority of the votes cast and that the Commission had not adopted a decision on the matter, the Commission would put the draft on the plenary agenda without a Commission proposal. As a result of law, the first reading of the draft shall be closed without a vote in plenary unless the proposal to reject the draft is made in plenary. That's the answer to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U109	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U110	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I know how you feel. It is that if you are in front of it as a co-rapporteur and would like to read the minutes, the opposition exclaims: "We can all read! " And if you don't read the record, they ask why you don't talk about it and ask you what you think personally. It just so happens that if you have a personal opinion, it's about the devil, because you could create a discussion, a parliamentary discussion, expressing your opinion. You should just say you don't have an opinion, you're a co-rapporteur. I just want to ask about this committee whether you spoke about it and whether it was emphasised and stressed that, if you are a co-rapporteur, there is no way you can say your own personal views in the remote if you are being asked, or if it was a declaration of goodwill that you can answer the ambassadors' questions if they ask you what you think. Was there such a debate in the Commission or was it not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U111	Good colleague! I see, you have a very sexy mask, "King of fucking," I never saw it before. But I wasn't given such instructions from the committee this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U112	Thank you very much. No further questions. There is an opportunity to open negotiations. Representatives of the political groups can take the floor during the negotiations. Jürgen Ligi, please, for the Reform Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U113	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, However, I say that it is good practice if the Rules of Procedure do not provide that the representative of the Commission is talking about the Commission and not about himself. That's right. I note that I represent a large part of my group now, and we do not have a consensus on this draft. There has not been a very close debate in the same group. So I can talk about what the arguments of the supporters are. First of all, this bill has been submitted several times over time. Not always have I joined it. The last time, it really was because lobby groups were so aggressive and the question arose whether we did not give the wrong impression that we were being lobbied and could not think for ourselves. But I have always agreed with the basic argument of this bill. Bear rearing for vanity is unethical and everything else is secondary. I remember my attitude 20 years ago. I am talking about myself now, but, as I said, we do not have any points of view in the group. It has been the view that even when writing about the election programmes of the Riigikogu, we must not write that man is the king of nature and nature exists for him. Such disputes have been quite real to us. Unfortunately, the feeling remains that man is the crown of nature. No, I think every species has the right to meet basic needs. That's why we eat each other, plants or animals, and we don't have to focus too much on it. However, in this debate, there have always been some inconspicuous argument that livestock production is all the same. No, it's not. We may be vegetarians, but as a vegetarian, we also eat other species, and not always can these species actually take advantage of us, for example, that we distribute them in nature. We can also eat meat. This is, I think, an ethically a little more complicated subject. But we can rationally explain it to basic needs, to the specifics of our own species, we're all eaters. This does not mean that we should satisfy our vanity by destroying and skinning other animals. That line runs from there for me, and for me, this bill is not actually controversial. This is quite simply a thing to be supported by now. In the past, the argument has also been that we are not hurting the people who depend on this area. As I said, man shouldn't be the higher animal, but let's assume that their basic needs would not be met if they couldn't grow fur. In fact, this argument has always been thin, but right now it's just easier because it's not a bearing argument that these people are going to find a job anyway. There is no point in falsifying their concerns about the workplace when there is a huge shortage of labour in livestock farming and agriculture in general. We're bringing in the workforce from abroad. These people will definitely find an app if they want to. It's the same way the branch is fading, isn't it? If this branch were very prosperous, the state would not be able to impose such bans so easily, because it is understandable that someone would get significant economic damage. But that wouldn't change the ethical argument. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U114	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U115	Still, it's easier to do this now. But it really doesn't change the ethical argument. In this sense, mankind has become more clear in its thinking that the welfare of other species is much, much more. Many have, of course, done so before, but this opportunity, the social opportunity, is much wider. They're talking about moving farms. Europe sets an example, including Estonia. In any case, by acting we have already set an example. If we don't build up with the skins of dead animals, it'll affect the world as well. Be perfectly calm, Europe can set an example in such matters. Europe can also set an example in that we can be more caring even in the rearing of meat or egg animals. Everyone in the store can test themselves whether they buy the cheapest eggs or chicken eggs. It's another sign of time, but we can handle things like this very easily. I think it's only good for our conscience. It's a little weird to hear a representative of the Committee on the Environment talk about it as if we cute fur animals, that everything is really great, they want to be in that cage, because we love them there. Well, it's not like that. They don't cute cage foxes, mints or chinchillas. It doesn't matter if you eat chinchilla meat. As far as we know, this is no nation's special food. Maybe it is. Here is the exception that chinchilja is a vegetarian and maybe it is effective to meet its needs for meat, but it is generally predators. No one grows a predator for meat, this meat is not good enough, and it is an extremely expensive way to meet their basic needs. Nobody's gonna do that. Hunting. Some feel that small game (or what they should be called) and natural balance are of great importance, so that it is as if we are harming nature. It's a marginal issue. In this sense, even those who protect nature should not think that they must necessarily gain a coat because nature is balanced. Obviously, different mechanisms must be put in place than the market that I get the coat, which is why I take care of nature. And so on. Generally speaking, I think that we listen to our conscience, see if we really do good to these animals, whether what some people hang on to is essential and a reason for destroying life. I don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U116	There is no further wish for negotiations, negotiations have been concluded. The commission has sent this draft to the Riigikogu for discussion. As the Commission rapporteur very precisely referred to the procedure, if there is no other proposal, the first reading has been completed. As no other proposal has been received, the deadline for submitting amendments is 5.15 p.m. on 29 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U117	Ladies and gentlemen, We are going to the third item on today's agenda, the first reading of the draft law amending the law on atmospheric air protection initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group 221. Please waitress Evgeni Ossinovski, member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U118	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for completing the first reading of the previous draft. Big deal! Now we are working to finally reach this historic decision at third reading. But quickly another important thought from the Group of the Social Democratic Party. This is an amendment to the law on atmospheric air protection. The draft is very simple, consists essentially of a single sentence, but the impact is very important and important. Estonia is known to be part of the European emissions trading system. The European emissions trading system is a pan-European mechanism to target polluting companies to reduce their footprint. It's a relatively complex procedure, how it's done in detail, but the content is very simple again. This is because if you want to release one tonne of CO2 or its equivalent into the atmosphere, you have to buy a quota for the emissions trading system at the market price at which it is sold, and then you get that right. This will increase the marginal cost of the polluting industry and will lead to a more environmentally friendly industry using the market mechanism as such. Mostly in energy production, but not only. The system operates in such a way that, at the beginning of each trading period, we are now at the end of one trading period and the new period begins on 1 January 2021 These are state units and these units are auctioned by the State and generate revenue at market prices. Companies buy the units that the countries sell and can continue their business activities, and the countries receive revenue. This revenue is subject to restrictive criteria because it is environmental units. The minimum requirement of the Directive is that at least half of the money received from the sale of units must go to climate objectives, i.e. to reduce the environmental impact, to better deal with climate change, to promote energy savings, etc. The minimum requirement of the Directive is half of the money [from the sale of units] [is close to meeting the climate objectives], but in fact the country is also able to decide differently at national level and to channel more money into the environment. That is the point of the bill and the only proposal. Perhaps the current law provides that the government will spend at least 50% of the revenue from climate units on environmental objectives, whereas, in our proposal, it would have to spend 100% of the revenues from climate units on climate goals, or invest more in achieving environmental targets. What does that practically mean? Estonia has 56 million emission trading units for the new period. Depending on what the unit price is now, the price is somewhere at 25, we can count on this amount to be about EUR 1 billion, which we would get from the sale of these units in today's prices over the decade. It's not small money. We have met the minimum of the directive, which means that half a billion of this money will go to meet environmental objectives. The rest of the government can spend the same amount on budget expenditure. Our proposal is not to do this, but also to put the remaining half a billion in today's prices into achieving environmental objectives. Why do we want this? We want this because, in the meantime, the European Union's understanding of the importance and severity of the climate crisis has moved significantly forward. As a result, the Member States of the European Union have reached an agreement on climate neutrality by 2050, and the European Commission has already announced that Estonia will also support this ambition to reduce greenhouse gas emissions not only by 2050 but also by 2030: from 40% to 55% compared to 1990. The way these higher ambitions are to be achieved is still under discussion, both internally and internationally. But it is clear that Estonia's state, we have one of the largest ecological footprints per capita in the world, must significantly increase its efforts. When we talk about energy, there have already been some changes in itself, as a result of the increase in the price of the quota. Oil shale has been squeezed out of the energy market through this, but the development of renewable energy needs to move forward. This undoubtedly concerns energy saving in buildings: energy waste in Estonia is very - very high because we are in the Nordic climate and our housing fund is poor. This is certainly a significant concern for transport. The growth of the transport mission in Estonia has been constant. The pace of driving has been very rapid and obviously not enough has been done in Estonia today. Unfortunately, as the paper read a few days ago, in the coming years, the government has no plan to achieve greater environmental sustainability and friendliness here. I'm sure all of this will require money. But not only does he simply demand money but he also demands predictable and long-viewed policies. If we take the same goals of environmental sustainability or those areas where we can ensure environmental sustainability, for example, over the next few years we know that some of them are covered by money in the context of a European recovery fund. 100 million goes to renovate apartment buildings. But we do not just have a question of what is going on for the next two years. For example, the plan to renovate buildings must actually be in place for 10 to 20 years and also be covered with money in order to have the construction sector, so that housing associations can do their projects, etc. The proposal by the state to provide for a stable guarantee of more money to achieve climate objectives is certainly a major step in the direction that these decisions can be taken with a longer margin of lightning. These amounts are likely to increase, given that the goal of raising 2030's ambition in Europe will lead to an increase in CO2 prices. In view of the different scenarios, the European Commission is forecasting an increase from today's €25 to some €30.60. Taking the scenario of a moderate increase of EUR 35 per tonne will also significantly increase the amounts, the hundreds of millions that will be added to us, and will certainly improve our chances of achieving environmental objectives. There are respondents to the bill mainly in the Ministry of Finance, who, of course, do not want to link different incomes by sector more than is necessary. This has been a long-term ideology of the Ministry of Finance on a number of subjects and this can undoubtedly be understood as giving the Ministry of Finance greater flexibility. The main answer to this is, of course, that a toughening environmental policy, both globally and in the European Union, basically makes environmental investment a law, a necessity. We will have a Europe-wide legal space, which will require us to make these investments anyway. And the fact that we can agree on stable funding is certainly important and could simplify, not complicate, the task of the Ministry of Finance in the longer term. So that they do not have to look for additional euros from under stone to achieve these objectives, but this financial contribution also comes from a clear and logical point of view. Is there something I didn't tell you? Last but not least, higher CO2 prices in the European emissions trading market and the addition of new sectors to this system, which is very likely, will undoubtedly lead to greater changes in the electricity market. We have had a lack of competitiveness of oil shale electricity for many years. However, in order to ensure security of supply in the coming years also under higher CO2 quotas, there is an urgent need to review the plans for the transition to renewable energy. The main argument against this has been that it is burdensome for the consumer, it comes from the renewable energy tariff, the electricity bill for people. These same climate units would be one of the options in which, in the future, at least partially or some of the new and additional renewable energy projects will be financed in such a way that renewable energy targets can be achieved and we will not impose additional burdens on our electricity consumers. So the ways in which the government can apply it positively, this flexibility remains, we do not want to write it down with the draft. But we would like to give this assurance that Estonia not only agrees with higher climate ambitions in words, but also actually provides the necessary financial resources to achieve these goals. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U119	Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Indrek Saar is the first to ask, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U120	Thank you for the floor. This is a very good draft and a necessary draft. But in recent weeks we have heard the Prime Minister report that Estonia has already done everything in terms of climate goals, for the next decade at least, if not for a longer period. We are already meeting all the standards, agreements and objectives significantly more than the most ambitious plans presented by the European Commission or the Council of Europe. In this context, could something else be done with this money, to be used where it is much more needed than the Prime Minister says? Or is the Prime Minister not really being brief and he's not going to tell you a few things?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U121	Thank you for your question. This is a really important issue, because if it is reported here that we have already achieved the 2030 targets, then indeed, why put extra money there then. The reality is, of course, considerably more complicated. First, indeed, Estonia has set its target of reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by 70% by 2030 compared to 1990. Why in 1990? Because it is a base year by convention, globally, in the context of the Kyoto Agreement. Globally, it has been agreed that the carbon footprint between countries will be measured on the basis of 1990. This is perfect for us, because very little needs to be done to achieve the objectives. In fact, Estonia's greenhouse gas emission in 1990 was 40 million tonnes a year. Three years later, 1993 was twice our mission. This was due to the collapse of the Soviet Union and the restoration of Estonia's independence by the large industry, which served the entire Soviet Union, collapsed and the Estonian emissions decreased twice. Since last year, when oil shale plants stopped, Estonia's emissions have virtually not decreased and we have remained at the 20 million border depending on the economic cycle. Maybe the first 50% were done then. If oil shale plants have stopped now, we have practically achieved today by 70% by 2030. But this does not mean that we can set foot straight as regards the achievement of the European Union's 2030 targets. Because the European Union's objective of raising ambition from 40% to 55% will be driven through pan-European emission reduction mechanisms. For example, the same emissions trading system that we are talking about here. Whether units will be reduced, which will increase their price, whether new areas will be added in addition to energy production and industry, such as transport, maritime transport, road transport and all of this will increase the price of the quota. If the price of the quota increases, the price of the quota will rise not only for those countries where the target has not been reached, such as Germany or France, large countries, but also for us, because we are buying it on the single market. The price of the quota will rise to Eesti Energia, it will rise to Nordic Cement in Kunda and all the other companies that have to buy this quota. So if we think about whether, now that we have a general objective, measured in 2090, we have met, that we don't have to do anything, we're okay, we're actually not. These requirements, which are going to come through various emission reduction instruments, are topical and some of them are also very difficult. For example, in the case of transport. Estonia's transport emissions have been steadily increasing, there has been a very rapid car race, we have more cars per person than in Ireland. Our new car park is one of the most polluting in the European Union. And we are committed to reducing emissions from the transport sector by 13% by 2030, already today. If ambition is increased, how will we achieve 13%? If you look at government development plans, there's no plan. For the next four years, we will see that emission increases. How is this supposed to decrease by 13%? I don't know. Actually, there's no plan. If ambition is further increased, this situation will become more difficult. So there is a great deal of these investments in a number of areas and they need to increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U122	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U123	Honourable waitress! Thank you for your thorough explanations and a good presentation. But the question arises as to how to ensure energy security if oil shale is caught as a result of quota trade. Should we support storage facilities, such as hydro pumping stations, or should we build a nuclear power plant, for example, with this money?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U124	I think the nuclear power plant in the context of 2030 will hardly help us. Building it, even if everything is going very well, is definitely a longer story. My personal view is that this is not necessary in Estonia. It is extremely difficult to build it, given that we do not have the necessary regulations, we do not have the people with the necessary competences, this is a highly regulated area globally, the requirements are very high. But that's my personal position. I think that the challenges that, in the context of energy security and security of supply, are certainly.. and they are also increasing, can be solved without the nuclear power plant and the negative aspects it entails. Undoubtedly, one part of what Elering is doing to ensure our security of supply through connections with other countries. We are going to have a network desynchronous, which is moving towards more integrated networks with our closest partners, and this will enable energy security to be guaranteed. The other side is certainly that electricity production will be jumping in the transition to renewable energy. If there's no wind, there's no electricity, if there's no sun, there's no electricity, maybe there's no time, there's no time. If we have an old electrical system with controlled power, you will see that they move as such large maps: less at night is produced and consumed, and more during the day. You put more oil under the rock, more electricity comes. If we're looking at days rich in solar and wind energy, it's like it can be predicted, but it's jumpy. And jumpy moments, they have to be compensated. Various solutions are also being developed in Estonia. For example, the same hydro pumping station, the one developed in Paldiski, and the other, the smaller one, which Eesti Energia will develop in one of its mines. With regard to this type of recording technology, very high levels of R &amp; D worldwide also apply how to do it. From an energy security point of view, this is certainly one place where investment should be considered seriously. What this particular project is, it needs to be analysed. But at night, for example, when consumption is low and at certain moments there is overproduction of renewable energy and the price of electricity falls close to zero, this electricity could be stored and used during the day. This is certainly one of the necessary ways in which the Estonian electricity system should also move.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U125	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U126	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Honourable waitress! On the one hand, we can agree with those who consider that we should not have to book 'amounts' in the state budget by law, but the extreme situation really requires action, and certainly this government, rather with pride, ignores the world's greatest crisis. But I'd like you to comment. A representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications made a strange speech in the Commission, which may have referred to it as if this money were to go into non-productive investments if the draft was adopted. As far as I am concerned, there is no contradiction between solving the climate crisis and economically successful entrepreneurship. In the case of Eesti Energia too, it is precisely the renewable energy sector that is currently very profitable. (Jevgeni Ossinovski: "The only profitable one. ") Would you like to comment on this a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U127	I hope I don't hurt a ministry officer because I don't exactly remember that point of view. However, in the wider sense, there has indeed been an incompetent criticism that environmentally friendly investments or investments to achieve energy climate goals are somehow incompatible with economic development. Since it is possible to make polluting plants, the economy is booming, or it is possible to make clean green investments, then the economy dies. In fact, however, the link is weak, to say the least, and sometimes the opposite. In these decades, the European Union, including Estonia, has been able to show precisely that economic growth can be achieved at the same time by reducing the environmental impact. It's actually a sign of a developing country if your only way to achieve prosperity is to ruin your nature. In general, we, as well as most other countries, have found ways to ensure a better living environment and greater well-being by protecting nature. If we are thinking about the possibilities that can be opened in many areas in Estonia, it is undoubtedly a strong plus sign, not a negative sign, of its economic impact.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U128	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U129	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! When you answered one question in advance, you touched on the issue of transport, you mentioned our caring and the fact that Estonia is in a bad way high on this table. What can be done to meet such climate targets in the field of transport, too, perhaps with a few words about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U130	This will undoubtedly require complex targeting and working on it. When we talk about what has been done positively in this area in recent years, there is certainly a significant increase in the quality of passenger train traffic: for example, the quality of rolling stock, which has now been at a different level for over five years. But also the project started by the previous government and, hopefully, coming to an end in the coming years, which concerns increasing railway speeds to 135 kilometres per hour in the direction of Tartu and Narva, is certainly very important. One might ask, couldn't you take the next step to make it 100 miles an hour? Some municipalities have said that, in fact, ambition could be increased even further and the design of a contact network and railway infrastructure that would allow speeds of 240 km/h, given that the current government is aiming at electrification of the railways, which is certainly a step in the right direction. But speed is definitely very important. If we are looking for an alternative to private passenger cars in long-distance transport, it is the speed that naturally gives the effect. Speed and comfort. We all know who we've been on the train now and ten years ago, but it's still like night and day. As a result, we can see from statistics how much more trains have been used than before. More complex things, of course, concern densely populated areas and cities. The mobility of cities in Estonia is still at the level of the beginning of the last century, when horse carts started changing against cars. It's just that there's been a lot more cars. In the capital of cycling infrastructure, those of the members of the Riigikogu who ride bikes in Tallinn know very well that the people who have designed bike paths have obviously not driven either bikes or trolleys, not to mention the inclusion of disabled people in this process. There's very little comfort. Some positive changes have been particularly vigorous in some cities, for example, in Tartu lately. But certainly urban traffic is one of the easiest places to replace a private passenger car with public transport, and a greater strategic vision by the state is needed here. One could say that the local authority's competence
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U131	Heljo Pikhof, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U132	Thank you. In the case of a green turn, a large number of people think that something still needs to be done, but critics say that it costs consumers too much. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U133	This is largely a matter of time perspective. Let us take the simplest example: the building management company is discussing whether to renovate its own building, resulting in a 50% reduction in heating bills. Well, they'll decrease by 50%, but maybe in 15 years, if the bank loan gets paid. In the meantime, it's good to save a little, but obviously in the short term it won't win. We've heard, at least I've heard, and I've probably heard others, too, counter-arguments: what I have in 15 years' time, I don't have any more, why I should take on a loan obligation. Perhaps the question is, in what perspective do we assess costs and benefits? Let's get electrocuted. If you have built a power plant for a long time and you no longer calculate its construction costs [electricity], then it seems that the power plant exists, we will still put oil shale in it and produce electricity from it, because it is cheaper than starting to build a new one. But if we look at the big picture of course, the climate policy component is important here, as far as the price of CO2 is concerned, with the cheapest electricity in our region: Norway and Sweden. Where there are large renewable energy capacities, which are left over and which end up with us, especially on weekends and working nights. As a result, in Estonia, too, if we are moving towards renewable energy, of course, it still needs very little additional support from consumers or the state, as it becomes increasingly competitive on a market basis. Over time, we will actually get free electricity for this in principle, because if the investment cost has been recovered, there will be no fuel consumption, and in this sense it certainly cannot be said that this would be harmful to the consumer. If more large-scale projects were to be implemented, the state would have to consider financing them, for example, from these same quota units and not from the renewable energy charge. We will eventually have a lower offer of large sea wind parks, their construction is still planned to be financed by a consumer tariff, but one might think that we will finance this from the quota money.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U134	Thanks to the waitress! No further questions and ask co-... Okay, no waitress yet. We have received a request from the Group of the Social Democratic Party for an extension of the sitting and will put this proposal to the vote first. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Social Democratic Party to extend today's plenary session to 14 o'clock. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U135	There are 38 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 4 against and 1 abstention. The proposal has been accepted, and today's session will last until 14:00. I'd like to ask Yoko Alender, vice-chairman of the Environment Committee, to be the next waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U136	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment prepared this draft for the first reading on Monday 21 September 2020. All the members of the committee took part in the meeting, and Mr Getlyn Denks, Head of Climate Department of the Ministry of the Environment, and Mr Anu Kull, Head of the Economic Development Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, were invited as guests. Jevgeni Ossinovski introduced the draft by the initiators. He said that under current law, the government must invest at least half of the emissions trading system units in order to achieve its climate goals and that it remains up to each country to decide what to do with the rest of the revenue. However, due to the global climate crisis and the increase in targets, a requirement should be introduced at the level of the law to use all the revenues from emissions trade to achieve the climate goals. This would bring up to EUR 1 billion in additional money over the next decade, which could be used to achieve climate objectives. The representative of the Ministry of the Environment considered that the amendment was not necessary, since the current law also allows for more than half of the revenue received to be directed towards achieving these objectives than provided for by the law. The representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications agreed with the opinion of the Ministry of the Environment and pointed out that 50% is conditionally quota money and the remaining 50% is invested for the same purpose, but this money can be used more flexibly. He said that the investments needed to achieve the climate goals were many times higher than the money from the emissions trade. He claimed that Estonian industry has long ceased to be polluting and that every cent that is directed towards non-productive investments reduces the competitiveness of Estonian industry. Refers to a study commissioned by the State Chancellery, which analysed the competitiveness of industry in the context of the Estonian tax system. Comparisons were made with neighbouring countries and support for e-intensive industries was proposed. Member of the Commission Heiki Kranichi said that this is not a good budgetary practice when the law sets out the target use of funds, because the government must have the possibility to redeploy resources if necessary. Heiki Kranich, however, found the claim that the Estonian industry is not polluting and added that he did not support this draft. This is not included in the record, but I can tell you that this was followed by an explanation by a representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. There was a certain misunderstanding of each other. Jevgeni Ossinovski studied how the draft reduces the competitiveness of Estonian industry. Anu Kull replied, referring once again to a study by the State Chancellery, which concluded that the Estonian industry was in an unfair position primarily because of high environmental charges, and the study recommended extending the benefits for e-intensive companies. If the draft is approved, it is recommended that, in addition to households, quota compensation should also be extended to e-intensive enterprises. Peeter Ernits argued that the competitiveness of the Estonian industry should not be reduced and he did not support this draft. Jevgeni Ossinovski, the initiator's representative, said that the draft is actually in line with the responses of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and in order not to burden the industrial consumer in the next decade, resources should be taken from the quota resources. He also mentioned that industrial competitiveness would certainly improve should the draft be supported. The speaker here said that public investment must certainly reflect on what objectives they are going to achieve, and he certainly supports the adoption of the draft. Mart Võrguship said that he too supported the draft, because there is certainly a need for additional money to achieve the climate goals, which we have heard from representatives of other parties as well. With this draft, we can give the government a clear guideline on where to channel this money. Decisions were also taken: to appoint Yoko Alender as rapporteur and to put the draft on the agenda on 15 October. These decisions were taken by consensus. The proposal to reject the draft was also voted on. It had five members: Peeter Ernits, Igor Kravtšenko, Siim Pohlak, Üllar Saaremäe and Erki Savisaar. The rejection was rejected by Yoko Alender, Jevgeni Ossinovski and Mart Võrguship. Heiki Kranich remained neutral. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U137	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U138	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I remember Heiki Kranich's statement of objection, and I also referred to the general position of the Ministry of Finance and what Heiki expressed, but the rest of those who voted against did not take the floor very much, and they are not listening to them today either. Do they have a vibe out of the last item on the agenda, or what? What arguments were there for those who do not support further processing of this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U139	Thank you. Good question. I believe that the show that my colleague Ernits did, expressing all sorts of interesting, entirely out of committee positions, is not the right thing to do. Indeed, those who opposed the draft at the Commission meeting did not, unfortunately, present their arguments to us. Maybe we'll just have to figure them out for ourselves somehow.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U140	Thank you. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U141	Can you imagine what these arguments might be?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U142	I think it's best for me to talk about my imagination at home, perhaps, like my husband.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U143	Thank you. No further questions. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The Governing Commission has proposed to reject the draft 221 at first reading and we will go to the vote on this proposal, but before preparation. Honourable Riigikogu! I shall put to the vote the draft proposal of the lead committee to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-15_U144	42 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 15 against, no abstentions. The draft has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. That concludes today's trial. See you in the next sitting!
