ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U1	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the Monday session of the 13th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. And as usual, let's start by handing over drafts and enquiries. Please speak on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Estonia, Mrs Heili Tõnisson.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U2	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching four draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Rene Kokk, Minister of the Environment, when the bill is being processed. Secondly, the draft law amending the Family Benefits Act and related amendments to other laws. Riina Solman, Minister of Population, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when processing this bill in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Law on Place Names Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration in the proceedings of the draft law. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented in Taavi Aas, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure in the proceedings of the draft law. All four drafts have been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U3	Thank you! Next, please, Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U4	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee initiates the Riigikogu decision 'Appointing a representative of Estonia to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted five drafts and we will process them in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Next up, presence check. 84 members of the Riigikogu are present, 17 are missing. And now we come to the approval of this week's agenda. I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the 13th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, 82 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of approving the agenda, and there are no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U6	We come to the first item on today's agenda, which is the third reading of the draft Act 124 amending the Law on the organisation of the rural and agricultural markets and the Law on Employment Services and Aids, initiated by the Government of the Republic. As we tend to do, third readings begin with negotiations, representatives of the political groups can speak. But it seems that there is no wish for negotiation. As the lead committee has proposed a final vote of 124 on the draft, we must carry it out. Ladies and gentlemen, can we go to the vote? I am voting on the draft law amending the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act and the Labour Market Services and Supports Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There are 92 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. Bill 124 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U7	Today's second item is the third reading of Bill No 9 on Amendments to the Tobacco Act and the Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity Excise Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Tarmo Kruusimäe, speaker, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U8	Thank you, good Chairman! Good guardians of the Republic! As you can see, the long process of SE-9 processing has reached the stage where the party of Isamaa can enjoy itself. In the previous composition, we were not able to give a green light to heated tobacco products, but we have introduced a huge number of disproportionate prohibitions and commands, and I think that is what both the opposition and the coalition think today. We are talking about reducing restrictions, but even for a moment, we are thinking about the ban on flavours in the tobacco law, which is simply based on the statement of one ministry person that in the case of products intended for adults, flavors and smells are intended to attract minors. Imagine that the cherry liqueur was made because the children were also running it! We could not lift these disproportionate prohibitions, and further debate is needed. After all, the restrictions are for us to be well maintained. What does the Ministry of Social Affairs protect adults from when these tastes are forbidden? Does the Ministry of Social Affairs really think that adults are so helpless? A good colleague thought that perhaps the Riigikogu should legalise cannabis. Good Andrei, in other parts of Europe, euthanasia is already being discussed, but we dare not even have this debate here whether the e-liquid with cherry flavor and smell is safe for adults or not. We're light years behind the others. I hope that this European day will soon bring new knowledge to all of us, and then we will also dare to think about lifting these disproportionate prohibitions. Together, we're strong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U9	Thank you. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U10	Thank you! The previous speaker's story was what Philip Morris has been saying about the lobby for the last 30 years. The specific nature of this debate is that this industry, one of the world's largest killers, is zombie hybrid, as one of the WHO directors said. The arguments that are being killed in one country will emerge as zombies a few years later in another country. In fact, it is well known to everyone that we have been broadly able to block the wide-ranging impact of the tobacco industry on national tobacco policies in the last 20 years. The country's tobacco policy was shaped by Phillip Morris for the first 30 years, and he will not do it again. For example, WHO staff are prohibited from attending meetings involving representatives of the tobacco industry and are not allowed to meet them in any other way. This is because one thing is certain: there is no safe amount of tobacco consumption. There is no positive side effect, and the negative effect is very significant. As a result, there is no reason why this drug should be favoured. The WHO has explicitly stated that if anyone would now like to place nicotine-containing products on the market, they would make a clear recommendation not to allow them on the market and ban them, just as we keep other psychotropic substances under ban. But historically, tobacco is in the position it is. It's one of the biggest businesses in the world, very disgusting and dirty business, of course. From time to time, politicians, as well as scientists, are hired to do dubious research, to which it is claimed that tobacco is not so bad. So this fight goes on. One major step that has finally been taken in this area is that the European Union has adopted the Single Tobacco Directive. Why am I talking about this? I was the person who, as the representative of the Government of the Republic, brought three drafts to the Riigikogu in the previous composition that transposed the Tobacco Directive into Estonian law. It had a number of important options. And indeed, since the lobby was also at the level of the European Parliament, it also received some dilution. Countries were given a degree of freedom as to what restrictions and how harshly to apply. The current situation of the tobacco industry is characterised by the most simple fact. The tobacco industry sees regular cigarettes becoming increasingly regulated, and in all countries their markets are dwindling. We see countries, including Estonia, making great progress in reducing smoking, especially among young people. A new generation grows less on top of it, and therefore something needs to be done to keep its profits. To this end, product development has been thwarted, and its product development involves yet another buy-out of politicians and so on. The heated tobacco products that Philip Morris and many others are trying to market, talking about a safety alternative to smoking, are actually an attempt to circumvent national tobacco policy regulations. Trying to keep people on a leash of nicotine addiction to make money on it. I am not going to discuss here now whether one or the other tobacco product is more harmful or beneficial to health. The fact is, nicotine is one of the most addictive substances. I've been affected by this disease myself. I know exactly what that means. And societies have taken different attitudes. There are societies where the attitude has been taken that we are trying to reduce harm we cannot get rid of smoking, so many people smoke and want to keep smoking, but then we try to put them on the road to smoking safer. And then you can make all these arguments that let them pull e-cigarettes, they can be sweet and smell good, and whatever else. And there is another approach that has so far been considered by Estonia to be the right one, and it was a conscious choice in its time. It is that, as a country, we are taking a course towards becoming a society free of dependence on tobacco and nicotine. Several countries have this... I'd like some more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U11	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U12	Several other countries have also made it a strategic objective and have drawn up plans for this. Finland and a number of other countries have set the goal of being a tobacco-free society in Finland in several decades' time, whatever this year is, according to my memory, 2035. This means that there are fewer than 5% of everyday smokers. And if we move in this direction, it is extremely important to maintain a common tobacco policy. That cigarettes are not replaced by other products like cigarettes that still keep people on the leash of nicotine addiction. Tobacco policy must keep us on the road to reducing nicotine dependence as such. And this is the road we've been going down so far. Of course, the tobacco industry has not liked it; of course, they were upsetting with us when these laws were made. Of course, Mr Kruusimäe has been saying this for three or four years. This does not make the truthfulness of these claims much greater, and their very antisocial interest in this context does not make the legitimate sense of law, but the antisocial interest is somehow less evil than the use of religious terms. In the current context, where church protests are on the agenda, this is perhaps appropriate. This draft, of course, contains a number of points arising from the directive and must be transposed. But, of course, the steps aimed at changing the tobacco policy so far in order to increase the attractiveness of these products, especially in the eyes of young people, but also of women, are working globally to ensure that smokers are more in the long term. It's actually proven. The aim is to have more smokers of cigarettes or smokers of heated products in the world or to reduce their number more slowly so that industry can continue to make a profit at the expense of human health. In my opinion, this is not right, it is not responsible. In fact, it is saying that the country is here making a certain change in the value of tobacco policy, saying that it is important whether smokers like what they do or not, and we must take into account that if some people still like the taste of cherry, it is very important that they start changing their tobacco policy. The fact is that young people find these products more attractive when they have flavours. That's a fact. It may be argued that if this is a problem for young people, why are we restricting the consumption of adults? But this too has been demonstrated in public health policy that it is actually almost impossible to protect children without changing the attitudes of adults. I once stood here as a minister, and Andres Herkel sat here and asked me how many smokers at the level of the Government of the Republic have, of course, been noticed in the corner of smoke. Then I said and I say the same thing again today: this policy is aimed at making sons smarter than their fathers. That is why this policy is right and it is not appropriate to change it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U13	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, would you like to make a reply? Your name was mentioned. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U14	Thank you! To use those words that sons are wiser than fathers. The previous speaker has been known to us as a chain smoker who has not dared to switch to an alternative tobacco product. So we have to wait for this law, or it will not be amended until the son is in the Riigikogu. However, I think that the Riigikogu finds its will to change it. There was nothing convincing or convincing about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U15	Thank you. The representatives of the political groups have no further wish to negotiate. I will close the negotiations and go to the vote on this draft. The lead committee has proposed the final vote on draft No 9. Ladies and gentlemen, can we go to the vote? I am voting on the draft law amending the Tobacco Act and the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There are 74 members of the Riigikogu, 12 against, no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U16	Today's third item is the third reading of the draft law amending the law on liquid fuel reserves initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. The political groups do not want to negotiate, so let's move on. The commission has proposed a final vote of 133 on the draft. Ladies and gentlemen, can we go to the final vote? I am voting on the draft law amending the law on liquid fuel reserves initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There are 87 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U17	Today's fourth item is the first reading of the draft 150 of the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group to "Proposal the Government of the Republic to prevent an increase in the end-user's renewable energy fee." Lauri Läänemets, member of the Riigikogu, will be a waitress for the speaker.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U18	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal to the Government of the Republic is very simple. Riigikogu proposes to the Government of the Republic to oblige Eesti Energia not to submit a request for support for renewable energy in the production of electricity in Toots wind farm pursuant to § 59 (22) of the Electricity Market Act as the organiser of the ownership rights of Eesti Energia. In other words, it is proposed that Eesti Energia should not ask for support for Toots wind farms on the basis of the old support scheme, which was in force until the end of 2016, but instead do so in the way it is currently in place, i.e. it would participate in a less bid. The arguments are as follows. I would also like to stress that this is not about Eesti Energia. The question is that if it is possible and there is no need for the people of Estonia to pay unreasonably taxes, in this case the renewable energy charge, then we should do everything we can to prevent them from doing so. Eesti Energia acquired, as we all know, Tootsi wind farm property from RMK in a public offer. The price was EUR 51.5 million. The remaining bidder only offered EUR 0,5 million less. What does it say? Eesti Energia, who, in theory, does not know whether or not he is entitled to ask for support according to the old scheme for Tootsi wind farm, but theoretically, if he is entitled to it, then Eesti Energia actually made the same offer as the supplier who does not have the right to ask for support according to the old scheme. This shows that Tootsi wind farm can be built even without the support of this old scheme. On 19 February 2020 Andri Avila, financial manager of Eesti Energia, has stated that Eesti Energia has two different plans for developing Toots' wind farm. This includes national subsidies, i.e. those obtained under this old scheme, and in the case of the other, electricity would be produced at market conditions in the park, and receiving the aid would not be an indispensable condition for the execution of the project. What would that support mean? According to the old scheme, it would mean 12 years and estimated that Eesti Energia would start producing electricity there 450 megawatt-hours per year, about 288 million euros of renewable energy, which would not really have to be paid to build and operate a wind farm. That is why we have proposed this to the Riigikogu. If it is not necessary to collect money from people, then the state should not. In essence, it could be said that if Eesti Energia can do things nicely, then Tootsi wind farm does not need such a large amount of support. We could compare it with the collection of indirect taxes, that Eesti Energia will get the money and the state will withdraw it as dividends. This may not be what the country should do. That's all I have to say for the introduction. The proposal is then not to ask for support according to the old scheme for Tootsi wind farm and, if necessary, to proceed with a less bid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U19	Thank you. Any questions for the initiators' representative? No, it's not! Next, I would like to ask Sven Sester, Chairman of the Economic Commission, to act as co-rapporteur. Indrek Saar, is...? Unfortunately, you are late, but you can ask your question to the co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U20	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft decision at its meeting on 21 April. We have also asked the Socialist representative for the Commission and, like today on the floor, Lauri Läänemets gave his input in the Commission as to why they consider this draft to be necessary. Separately, we had asked to be present at Kaupo Raag, chief analyst of the Ministry of Finance's state assets department. The meeting of the Commission was such that Lauri Läänemets presented the content of the draft on his own behalf. I'm not gonna go over it, it just happened on the speaker's desk. There were some questions in the Commission, and I will give you an overview of them. The first question was that they wanted to know whether the starting point for drawing up this draft was that Eesti Energia is a state-owned company and therefore it should not be asked for support. Lauri Läänemets explained that the State's ownership is not decisive here, the question is that, if market conditions allow electricity to be produced without support, the aid should not be asked for. It was examined whether the Government of the Republic could interfere in the decisions of the company and, if so, in what way. To this, Kaupo Raag replied that, in principle, all parties are jointly and severally responsible for the damage that could arise if they influenced the board of directors or the board of directors to make any adverse decisions to the public limited company. In this way, we cannot directly prohibit the request for support. Whether or not this grant decision is made is a completely different company, in this case Elering, who makes that decision. And in principle, the government should not interfere in making individual decisions in this way. To be honest with the Commission, there were no more questions, just as there were no separate questions in this large Chamber today. It was decided to put this draft on today's agenda, or 4 May, and to put it to a final vote. As far as the Commission is aware, the points in the draft decision are not in the position itself. But that was the review of this committee meeting. So much more so that, as chairman of the committee, I sent a letter to the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance within this process before proceeding with the draft in the Riigikogu to understand our competence in making such decisions. My letter was also motivated by the fact that the country actually has a thing like the 'Green Paper on State Participation Policy' today. And in this Green Paper, I quote, there are, among other things, a couple of such important things. One of them is that 'it is important to distinguish between the design of sectoral policies and the performance of the functions of the owner'. And the second, which is also important in this Green Paper from the point of view of public policy participation, is to avoid giving guidance to companies to resolve individual sectoral issues outside the legal framework. In principle, the Ministry of Finance replied that, in itself, the Commercial Code does not provide for the possibility of providing specific guidance for individual decisions by the legislator or the shareholder. As a general rule, it is still the case that the Governing Board proposes a proposal. They are the ones who, on a daily basis, operate the management of the company on a daily basis, the board of directors then, with a 'greater amplitude', and that's how the bottom-up actually works. So then the general meeting usually makes decisions. There may even be some nuances to the principle of legal expectations when, for example, the Bureau and the Council have acted and taken decisions in the current legal area, and now the minister or government is "directly intervening" or imposing some kind of operating restrictions. And then afterwards. That was the arguments. And that concludes the debate in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U21	Thank you. Good waitress, there's at least one question for you. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U22	Thank you. Good Sven, I know you as a thorough answerer. I'm gonna ask you this way tonight. Today's draft decision and the electricity market law discussed in this Chamber on Wednesday are like symbiosis. When Tootsi wind farm is finished and Eesti Energia starts to charge a very large renewable energy fee and Auvere plant starts burning wood and oil shale together, and there is also a huge opportunity to demand a renewable energy fee, all of this is reflected in the electricity bill of our consumers. And do not say, in answer, that many so-called producers are also leaving this measure, that the two together are large enough to be reflected in the electricity bill. Good Sven, how much is home expenses now?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U23	Good Kalvi, you know I will answer, even when the matter was not discussed in the committee. And I am not saying today that this was not discussed in the Commission. You asked, I'll answer. In this sense, good Kalvi, it is good to always listen to you as a group, that you have a little bit of interest, depending on how the question is placed. I remember once arguing with a good colleague, Jevgeni Ossinovski, about the pace at which we should increase the share of renewable energy in Estonia. He said if he had the chance, he'd close everything that works with fossil fuels tomorrow. To have 100% renewable energy tomorrow. I said I was sorry, but we as consumers must all pay for this, but today, however, renewable energy is not enough. And it is not possible to do so against market rules. By the way, I'm not gonna rule out that we're gonna get this far with wind power, but not now. The level of subsidies has gone down a lot, but the Estonian taxpayer still pays for it and it is very expensive for us. Mr Ossinovski said that this is of no importance; it is an important objective and the aim is to increase the share of renewable energy. Now you're asking as backwards, saying that wait-wait-wait, if we now increase the share of renewable energy using a variety of options, you said as an example that biomass will be used instead of fossil fuels, which will ensure a higher share of renewable energy, are we now no longer thinking about the customer, or the consumer. In that sense, you have questions on different days in different pants, I'd say so.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U24	Questions have come up. Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U25	Thank you. Good waitress! Well, it is clear that in our legal space, if the members of the company's board of directors or the board of directors make a negative decision to the company, they will be responsible for it with their own assets. But I found this messed up that if the members of the Riigikogu are now forcing the management bodies of the company to make adverse decisions to the company, who will then be responsible and how will be responsible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U26	Yeah, a true story, I think it'll be like a step forward, really. It is to be expected that, if the manager of the holding makes an individual decision, I would have described this situation before, in itself, this normal procedure would have to go to the board of directors. The decision-making from above is not in fact in line with the provisions of the Commercial Code. I didn't come up with these paragraphs today, § 298 (2) etc., all of which are set out. But from there, the following would really be the case if the legislator pressured the shareholder to take a decision, specifically on a case-by-case basis. That certainly should not be the case. If we want to solve a problem, we should not solve a case-by-case problem, but another one. For example, suppose there is a legitimate question about the share of renewable energy: do we want to increase it, it is too expensive for us? Then we're talking about the whole picture, not the case. So, certainly, decisions must not be made on individual cases, I think this is not really good practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U27	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U28	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable waitress! It must have been 2006, when we started working on that Toots wind farm area. In the meantime, there have been a number of litigations, there has been talk about climate warming and alternative energy. Now in this Chamber, again, we are bouncing against the argument that this Tootsi wind farm is not a very good thing that it increases costs and is harmful to the consumer. Now, why don't you two more words explain if Toots' wind farm is the right thing and if the citizen is paying for the right thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U29	You see, I am the representative of the Commission here, and I should talk about what was said in the Commission. We are somehow inclined to a much wider area in our discussions. Well, I wouldn't open it up. Good Andres Metsoja, with your kind permission, I'm not going to open it wide enough. I know it would be the opening of Pandora's box. If you ask me for my opinion, I believe in itself that a fundamental decision has been taken in society to increase the share of renewable energy, and this pace has actually been agreed. Whether this can be completed in the near future or not, I mean the current crisis, we will see that. There have been different views on tempo speed over time. Mr Ossinovski has said that if he had the chance, he would do it the next day. This is certainly possible only in theory, with a high probability in practice it would not be possible to carry it out. And certainly every step in this direction has its price. If you ask about this particular case, then in any case the Estonian state and I think the whole world is moving towards increasing the share of renewable energy. That's the deal.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U30	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U31	Thank you. Dear rapporteur, Mr President of the Committee on Economic Affairs, You began to answer the Kalvi Tough question so beautifully, but you did not say how much now the cost of home is falling or increasing as a result of the decision that you are now making by rejecting this bill. According to my information, this amount is equal to the impact of the reduction in electricity excise duty, which you have now adopted with the additional budget and which was supposed to be significant. If this order of magnitude is the same, why are you acting in a Phariseeic manner and rejecting this draft decision, giving various examples? It's nice to remember what Evgeny Ossinovski has once said, but I'd still come back to home expenses. Would you tell me how people's home expenses will change as a result of this decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U32	Thank you. You know, on your question, it sounded like seven times the word 'home expenses'. And I don't have any problem saying 'home expenses' seven times. I think the goal of reducing home expenses has been, is today and will continue to be. Surely we have to act on this, and we can't get over it or around it, can we? But, good Indrek, we certainly must act within the framework of existing laws. Look, it's really important! And we should make decisions in a comprehensive view, not in individual decisions. If we start making individual decisions for the sake of one or the other, that's the worst. No individual decision shall be taken. General interest! General interest! And I would certainly tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that increasing the share of renewable energy in Estonia and elsewhere in the world will inevitably increase the subsidies that we must all pay. We'll pay for it, it's inevitable. The greater our target for increasing the share of renewable energy, the sooner we want to achieve it, the more we will be forced to pay for it. Believe me, these are the options.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U33	Jevgeni Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U34	Thank you, Sven, for explaining my point of view. Inadequately, I have never said that tomorrow should be 100% renewable energy. But indeed, no one should blame me for sincerely believing that Estonia should quickly abandon fossil fuels and switch to renewable energy. But it's a little unexpected from you to hear that you're suddenly starting to support higher-subsidised renewable energy...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U35	No!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U36	... because the question is now...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U37	No, no, no, no! [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U38	Please wear this verbogram! Indeed, we have the opportunity to build this wind farm on the table today, with low, less supply subsidies, or with over-subsidised subsidies, for a public company. And that's what our bill's against right now. Now, you were talking about certain legal aspects. If a legal solution could be found, would you support us not to take out this excess money from the taxpayer's pockets, but by using less offers, Eesti Energia would make this wind station?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U39	I, of course, support the fact that, in the overall increase in the share of renewable energy, we are dealing with less offers. In this regard, we have also adopted one draft in the Riigikogu. By the way, I would like to point out that this bill was being processed for seven or eight years and was adopted by the previous formation. I'm not gonna tell you here, or I don't know if you should tell me why it was dragging around. To some extent, the questioner played a part in this stretch, let's say so. [[Laughing.]] Let's be honest! [[In the Laughing Hall.]] But we've finally come to an agreement, we've come to a lower bid. Once again, I stress: it is imperative that laws be used and, if there are fewer offers available, less bids must be made. If there is a legitimate expectation to ask, we certainly cannot take it away as a single issue. That is also right, we do not have that right in principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U40	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U41	Thank you. I still have to ask here once. We should look at the financial impact on the taxpayer. Let's look at it for years. Supposedly, Toots' wind farm will be operational in 2023. If otherwise renewable energy charges were to decrease, for example by 2020 to 76 million, 2021 to 68 million and 2022 to 47 million, then the additional Toots wind farm in 2023 will raise it to 59 million instead of 35 million, in 2024 to EUR 36 million instead of 12 million, and in 2025 to EUR 30 million instead of 6 million. Be good and still tell me whether, in the Commission, I left earlier, there was a substantive debate about why the Members of the Commission did not want to reduce these people's fees.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U42	Thank you. No, no, no, Mr. Lauri West Forest, you didn't go anywhere early! You were there the whole time we discussed this point. When this point ended, and we took the next point, you left. You got the final final word, too, didn't you? So, no-no, during the debate on this point, you were still present all the time, and I say this in the interests of the verbatim, so that there is no misconception that you left, and then we began to discuss it separately. No, no, there was no such thing. So you were always at the debate. We have talked about this several times today, but I will repeat it over and over again to me, it is not a problem to repeat it. Once again, if it is right to ask, we cannot take away that right. I am not here today to defend one or another; I am actually talking about what was in the Commission. It's just that I'm trying to open up more widely than I've been asked what my opinion is. If there's a chance, I'll give you my opinion. By the way, I can't tell you what position Elering will finally take. I don't even know whether this application has been filed or not, you know it better than that, it's a "business-level" decision. Do I understand that there are certain criteria for this application to be granted at all? That's a whole other subject. That's a whole other subject! The question is whether we can intervene in individual decision-making by a company. That's the question. As a legislator, we really should not make such decisions. Then we should also provide some answers in solidarity in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U43	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U44	Good manager! Good waitress! It is a pleasure to listen to your answers to the concerns of the social democrats about how renewable energy fees can make our wallet a hole. But you, as a great statesman with a hawk's eye, enlighten me! My weak mind does not understand that one state company, or Eesti Energia, paid another 50 million at auction, and one private company, who paid not half a million less, but only 50,000 less, was left aside. Was it a wise decision in your experience as a great statesman?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U45	This is the end I've had now... In itself, the introduction was so long that the end went missing for me, I'm sorry, Peter. I realized so much that one cost $50,000 more and won. That's a really good point. But I'm sorry, Peter, really, I lost that ending. You might be able to ask another question, and then I'll try to answer. I really lost my end somehow. Siim, be nice!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U46	Siim Kisler, please! [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U47	Thank you to the President, Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu and also to the Chairman of the Commission, who gave me the floor. My question is whether the position of the Parliament's renewable energy support group was also heard in the committee. By chance, the president of this support group, Lauri Läänemets, was present at the Commission. I understand that he has said, when setting up this support group, that the support group's mission is to put green energy on its shoulders. Was the support group heard and discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U48	No, we didn't invite a separate support group. But when you say that Lauri Western Forest is the president of this support group, he was there this time, like the so-called two in one. And I believe that they still believe that the share of renewable energy must be increased unless they have changed their positions in the meantime. Let us be honest, I would like to emphasise once again: increasing the share of renewable energy will also increase the different charges charged from our taxpayers' pockets. In the context of the state budget, we must take this into account. There are certainly two things that cannot be said at the same time: that I want to increase the share of renewable energy and that I also want to lower home costs, for example. Unfortunately, they are not correlated. However, today the cost of increasing the share of renewable energy continues to go down as technologies improve. Once again, I stress that I do not rule out that at one point the wind can be done against the so-called market, but at the moment the small subsidies are smaller than that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U49	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U50	Good manager! Good waitress! Yeah, you didn't understand my question, so I'll ask you again. From your point of view as a great statesman, is this a wise decision when one of the state companies that paid EUR 50000 more was chosen and 50 million was lost to the taxpayer? Was that wise?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U51	Thank you. I don't know. Here we must certainly look at business plans and ideas that are wise and not. Certainly both the board and the board of directors, based on their due diligence duties, make the best decisions for the company. I'm also saying that I was a little upset, Peter, about your question, that I'm marking it off, that you said you were missing something. Nothing was missed. I understand that with this money, he now received certain rights. And in the same way, the other participant in this auction would have gotten a cash exchange for certain rights. So here, however, we are dealing specifically with business plans that I do not have at my disposal. I'm not on the board or the board of directors of this company.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U52	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U53	Thank you! You said it was because of me that the adoption of the electricity market law was delayed. I'm gonna have to settle this for the sake of the truth. It is clear to all those who have assessed the situation objectively that it was, however, delayed by the honourable waitress's very rigid views. But fortunately, in the end, agreement was indeed reached, and that is a good law. And that's why we're actually in a situation today where we have alternatives on the table that we didn't have before. We have this overly high rate of support that Eesti Energia now wants to get to Tootsi wind farm, which is an overly high rate of support at today's technology prices, and we can do less to make it very, very more favourable to the consumer. That's actually a question. There is currently no other issue in this context. Now you're saying you shouldn't interfere with certain decisions of state companies that they make. Could you extend it to other public enterprises? For example, to the Estonian Post, if they think at one point that they do not want to provide any part of the service, they would not want to take newspapers home to people...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U54	Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U55	Is that even their freedom or, in fact, the State has a certain obligation to direct the activities of public undertakings?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U56	Thank you. Of course, state participation policy defines, on the one hand, competences-decisions on how all of this should take place. The other way around is to say that the owner can make any decision I'm the owner, I'll make the decisions I want, even if they're harmful. But then you most likely have to give some kind of signal that it can't be done inside the process. I think it's important too. And what is also important is that I have already said this several times for such individuals, and I strongly emphasise that it is not right, in my opinion, to take decisions over. If our aim is to bring down renewable energy charges, it is not an individual decision. We will do so and, in the case of renewable energy, everything will be based on less supply in the future. This is not an individual decision, everyone can participate, etc. We cannot make individual decisions based on the situation. I just don't think it's right. But once again, it's just my opinion, not the opinion of this whole hall. I'll explain why I think so. I will be honest with you that what I am saying here, we did not speak in the Commission. We have gone further in this debate, and I apologise to my colleagues for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U57	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U58	Honourable Chairman! Good waitress! I've admired your fight over the years to bring down home expenses, too, but now you've been spinning around here for a lot of minutes, explaining that you still can't cut home expenses. Let's be honest, your confrontation is only due to the reason that this bill has been presented by the opposition. Why are you against lowering home expenses? Why?!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U59	You almost read it down so vividly that the inner doubt tells you it was written down for you. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] But it doesn't matter. The question is, I'm trying to answer. Friends, we will make a maximum effort to maximise the reduction of home expenses in accordance with the law now and in the future. I think that's the most important thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U60	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Today, we have treated Eesti Energia as such a company that is, as if, causing damage to the taxpayer. Somehow it's gonna sound in this hall. In this light, perhaps you still explain that it was only when the government decided to increase the company's equity as a financial contribution by placing EUR 125 million in an oil plant. And now we have been debating for quite some time here whether or not the intervention in the form of a subsidy in the construction of one of the largest, actually largest wind farms in the Baltic States is appropriate. What is our strategic view of ownership policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U62	Thank you. Well, I've mentioned it many times. As far as Toots' wind farm is concerned, I stress once again that I do not know whether or not they will receive support under the old support scheme. I don't know, but in a way, it doesn't matter. I mean, every time we start defending or narrowing the interests of one or another company, it's a bad and wrong policy. We should never do this to the general plans, the big picture must always be ahead of us. At the same time, it is clear that there have been many protests and disputes at various levels over the whole of Toots' wind farm. I guess all of this has something to do with the overall situation of the market. And I think you can also say that the more you argue, the better or clearer the end result. Tonight, I understand some decisions have been made. It should certainly be in everyone's interest that the share of renewable energy is increasing. After all, once again, we have decided that increasing the share of renewable energy is our goal. And that's what the wind farm will do.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U63	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U64	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Personally, as regards this draft, I am convinced that the Riigikogu, which itself imposes these rules, should change the rules, not tell the executive power that you are subject to this inquiry, so do not follow the rules that we have established. That is why half of my question is about what rules the Social Democrats should change if this bill fails. What proposal would they have to come up with? And the other half for you as in Ernitsa's wording for a hawk-eyed statesman is like this. Maybe you'll list three to five examples that Fatherland has managed to bring down home expenses. What are these things? It's just that I'd write it down. I have a pen for the Fatherland. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U65	Thank you. You know that if there is an opportunity to highlight the implementation of the points in the programmes of your party, this possibility cannot be missed. I'm gonna start from a distance. I am not going to talk for very long today, but if you gave me this opportunity, I will definitely note the disputes with Tallinn Vee until the trial. I guess it was just a while ago that the subject was up again. I think this is one big victory in Estonian society. In summary, this has led to the fact that the customers of Tallinn Water, who had paid and should have paid a certain fee in the future, are no longer obliged to pay so much. I think this is one big victory that has been achieved by acting against a particular monopoly. And there are many more things that we can bring out that have brought relief to our people. Let us take the tax exemption for the land we live in. If our families own land where they have still lived, it would be difficult to pay a 'higher tax' for it. This could have created a situation where older people, whose income is no longer so high, who receive only a pension, would have been forced to move out of their homes because of tax policy. Not much has been said about this lately, but the tax exemption for the land under home, which was definitely initiated by the Fatherland, is a grateful thing. And it seems to me that regardless of the composition of the coalition, it is not desirable to change it. So this may be an example. But certainly, if you would like, I can discuss with you later on this subject, there are many examples. With regard to the first part of your question, the truth, as I mentioned earlier, is that we are moving towards increasing the share of renewable energy. And inevitably today, this is a step that means that consumers will have an increase in the amount at the price tag. If you're asking me what recommendations might be for the socialists, I'm not going to speak for them. But I think it is an important thing that we did at the end of the previous term: renewable energy no longer has a 'fixed charge', it is a 'less bid'. I think it's a very big victory, which makes people feel at home and in their daily wallets.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U66	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U67	Thank you. I asked you to read three to five things you've done in the past. Almost two and a half came together. But tell me, what is your plan in this coalition: how will you further reduce your home expenses? It would still be interesting to listen so we don't end this conversation here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U68	Thank you. You know, I feel it's a permanent spiral down or, on the contrary, going upstairs depends on how we're looking at it. In one step, you keep opening new doors. I have no objection to debating various steps that contribute to reducing the daily costs of our people, the people of Estonia. And I believe that even the Reform Party has thought about this for some time, at least when we were in the coalition together, how to help ease the lives of the people of Estonia, to bring down their home expenses. But I think that this debate we can hold later on on on some other level, maybe now we will save our good colleagues from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U69	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions. While there have usually been more questions for the rapporteur-general and less for the co-rapporteur, today the practice has been broken. Now we have the opportunity to open negotiations. On behalf of the Socialist Group, I would like to ask for Mr Läänemets to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U70	Thank you. Respectables! The round of questions and answers, when the chairman of the committee was on the board, may have given the impression or wanted to give the impression that the question is whether renewable energy should be supported and that there is an opinion that paying renewable energy charges is not the right way to go. No, that's not it. The essence of the draft is that we have two options today. The choice is to support the establishment of Tootsi wind farm according to the old support scheme, which is expected to cost 288 million euros over 12 years, or if support is really needed for the establishment of Tootsi wind farm, then Eesti Energia can participate in a less bid. This less bid may mean that there is some kind of support to be paid during this 12 year period, but it may also mean that this support does not need to be paid. And the reason why we no longer use this old scheme is that it was in force until 31 December 2016 is that basically wind energy returns are so good that it can be produced almost or completely at market price. It depends on the price of electricity and certain other things, but it's close. And that's why we don't use that old-fashioned support, is it? And now the Estonian state actually has a choice: either let the state company, or Eesti Energia, whose ownership rights are exercised by the government, collect a total of 288 million renewable energy fees from Estonian people for 12 years or not. That is the central question. The chairman of the committee noted that it was not possible to intervene by taking an individual decision. As a matter of fact, it is. Perhaps the Estonian Post is a good example. Over the years, Estonian Post has repeatedly wanted to raise the price, saying that services do not pay. He's been told he can't raise prices. This has been said at the end of the year, at the beginning of the year or in the middle of the year, right, and it has been said in advance how the Estonian Post should behave. State-owned enterprises are state-owned enterprises for a reason. They are because the state has a certain power over important companies in important areas and, if necessary, the state can intervene and steer. We see that there is a need. When we look at § 76 of the Treasury Act, which talks about the competence of the Government of the Republic, we see that paragraph 4 of the Law states: The Government of the Republic may, at the request of the Governor, give him instructions and guidance on matters other than those mentioned in subsection 3 of this section. The same paragraph actually allows for intervention in the work of this company and for proposals to be made. I also point out that if the old scheme does not provide support to Eesti Energia for the construction of Tootsi wind farm, the Tootsi wind farm will not be missed. Firstly, option A is that Eesti Energia can do it on its own and does not need support. Option B is that next year there should be an opportunity to participate in a less bid of 450 GWh, the exact same volume that Eesti Energia may need from Tootsi wind farm. So there should be no question. I ask you to support this draft so that we do not have to unduly collect EUR 24 million from people every year as electricity bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U71	Thank you. Do the other groups have a wish to speak? No, it's not. Then I'll finish the negotiations. No amendments to the draft were received and the proposal of the lead committee is the final vote of 150 OE. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, 'Proposaling the Government of the Republic to prevent an increase in the end-user renewable energy fee'. I would remind you that a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is necessary for the draft to be adopted as a decision. Please take a stand and vote. There are 9 members of the Riigikogu, 47 against and 3 abstentions. The proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U72	The next item is the continuation of the Land Reform Act initiated by the Rural Affairs Committee, the Land Acquisition Act issued during the land reform and the Draft Act amending the State Assets Act (87 SE). Mr Tarmo Tamme, Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U73	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a draft of the 87th Land Reform Act, the Land Acquisition Act issued in the course of the land reform and the Amending Law of the State Property Act, which the Commission discussed in order to proceed with the second reading. The second reading was interrupted. The draft law amending the Land Reform Act and the Land Acquisition Act was initiated by the Rural Commission on 7 October 2019. The first reading in Riigikogu's plenary session took place on October 21, 2019 and the first reading was completed. The second reading in the Riigikogu's plenary session took place on 27 February 2020 and the reading of the draft was interrupted in order to allow members of the Riigikogu to submit amendments to the regulation on the extension of the occupation contract included in the draft. According to the draft law, the renewal of the usufruct contracts will take place under the State Assets Act. In the case of renewals of service contracts, the market-based operator charge shall be calculated, leading to an increase in the user charge. Initially, the increase in the use management fee was to be mitigated by the additional amendment tabled by the Ministry of Rural Affairs on the draft amendment to the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act and the Labour Market Services and Support Act (124 SE) pending in the Committee on Rural Affairs. According to this amendment, the increase in user charges could be mitigated by the granting of de minimis aid to the user. The issue of the extension of the occupation contract was discussed at the meeting of the Cabinet on 16 April 2020. The consultation reached a compromise that provides for a three-year period for the transition to market-based user charges before 1 June 2022. In the first year following the renewal of the usufruct contract, the fee shall be 33% and 66% of the market-based user charge in the second year and, from the third year onwards, the fee shall be market-based. The compromise solution ensures a smooth transition to market-based user charges. The Rural Development Committee discussed the draft Land Reform Act, the Land Acquisition Act issued during the land reform and the Amendment Act 87 at its meetings on 10 March 2020, 16 March and 21 April 2020. At the meeting of the Commission on 10 March, Silver Jakobson, Head of the Treasury Department of the Ministry of the Environment, and the lawyer of the same department, Glen Roosaar, Marko Gorban, Deputy Secretary-General of Agriculture and Rural Policy of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, Geir Veski, Head of the Legal Department, Kerli Ats, CEO of the Estonian Farmers' Central Union, and Vahur Tõnissoo, Member of the Board of the Chamber of Agriculture and Trade. One amendment was examined at this meeting, the mitigation measure proposed by the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the opinions and views of stakeholders were heard. The representatives of the Estonian Farmers' Confederation and the Estonian Agricultural and Trade Chamber agreed with the measures to mitigate the increase in the utilisation fee proposed by the Ministry of Rural Affairs. At the meeting of the Commission on 16 March, further proceedings were discussed and procedural decisions were taken. Due to the imposition of an emergency situation and due to the decision of the Riigikogu Board to discuss only time-critical drafts in plenary due to the emergency situation, the second reading of the draft 87 was postponed. Silver Jakobson, Head of the Treasury Department of the Ministry of the Environment, and Glen Roosaar, lawyer of the same department, and Triinu Rennu, Deputy Director General of the Land Office, took part in the meeting of the Commission on 21 April. The Deputy Director-General of the Land Office gave a brief overview of the discussion of the meeting of the Cabinet and of the compromise solutions proposed. The question of compatibility between the compromise solution and State aid rules arose at the Commission meeting. The visitors pointed out that a compromise solution made at the meeting of the Cabinet could lead to an unacceptable risk of State aid, as during the transitional period the holders pay a lower price than the market-based user charge. The members of the Commission considered that the public and users should be informed of the risk of breaching the State aid requirement. The money may be recovered. The representative of the Land Administration stated that, in the event of renewal of the usufruct contracts and in order to enable the holder to plan his further activities in relation to the use of the land, the holder of the land would be informed of the potential risk and that any contract for a particular usufruct would be calculated by calculating the amount of the possible refund. The deadline for tabling amendments was 5 March at 5.15 p.m. No proposals were received from Riigikogu members, political groups or other committees. The Central Union sent its opinion on the draft to the leading committee. The commission prepared two amendments. The first amendment improves the inaccuracies found during the inspection and introduces the first sentence from the paragraph of the current law which was erroneously omitted. The second amendment introduces a provision in the law establishing a three-year period for the transition to market-based usage. The Commission supported the amendment by consensus. The new text of the draft has been reviewed by the language editor and there are linguistic and regulatory improvements in the text. The procedural decisions of the commission were such. The commission decided to send a draft law amending the Land Reform Act initiated by the Rural Affairs Committee, the Land Acquisition Act issued during the land reform and the State Assets Act (87 SE) to the Riigikogu for the continuation of second reading by 4 May 2020 with a proposal to complete the second reading. It was also decided to put it on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the third reading when the second reading of the draft was completed by 6 May 2020 and to propose a final vote on the draft. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U74	Thank you. Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U75	Good manager! Good waitress! A fine compromise in itself, but the question is that you approved it in the Commission, but in fact all those rural men who are going on this road have to consider the risk that there might still be a breach of state aid requirements and then have to pay back the money at some point, even though the opportunity seemed to be favourable. And my question is, do you really have any other option, and how many of these landmen are there, to whom this risk product is offered?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U76	Thank you, good Peter, for the question. Fortunately, the situation is that about 90% of the owners of the usufruct contract buy this land out and they will not enter into a new agreement with the State in the next period. In fact, there are few new contracts, perhaps involving a few hundred people. It is also the case that this new transition period is three years and cannot be a 'theoretical cost'. And then this contractor will assume that there is a certain risk. But why did we think in the Commission that it had already been discussed in October last year or since November to go any further on this issue? I read it to you in the minutes, I am not going to look it up again because the first Commission meeting was. But it's been dragged unreasonably. The first contracts have ended. If someone has completed 15 years, they have a legitimate expectation of entering into a new 15-year contract under old conditions, i.e. the Land Reform Act. This would give them the possibility to conclude these contracts at a significantly lower price than the market price again, but then the risk will be significantly higher. It was such a compromise, and I think it was a good solution, because we can still move on with it. The County Department wants to sign new contracts, and the farmers are waiting for clarity in the house.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U77	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U78	Thank you. The next step: have you asked Brussels how they feel about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U79	Thank you. We have not asked Brussels. However, with regard to the usufruct law, the regulation that was valid for 15 years was due to the fact that Estonia was able to use the distinction at a significantly lower price than the market in order to conclude these usufruct agreements. This was asked in Brussels 15 years ago. But there is nothing to ask at the moment, because this 15 years have passed and no one has wished to re-establish this distinction, and it would not be justified either. This would create a very unequal market situation, as some farmers would have to operate at market-based prices, while others would have an unjustified advantage. However, so that this transition would not be very steep, a transitional period of three years was made.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U80	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Did you also find out in the Commission the statistics on how many of the usufruct contracts have allowed the land to be valued to be bought out, but in fact it has failed to make a deal because it would be too costly for them?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U82	Thank you. These statistics are there. The Land Office has very thorough statistics on how many usufruct contracts have been signed at all. But there is a high probability, as I said before, that 90% will buy out the land. The price of the land is always rising and there is no reason to enter into a new contract. The land is part of the farmer's capital and security. I think it's a good thing that the money now given to the MES is an opportunity to borrow money from the MES and buy the land out of the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U83	Thank you. No further questions. Next, I will open negotiations. There is no wish for negotiations, and I will close them. Now we need to examine the amendments that are, as we have heard, two. The first is presented by the Committee on Rural Affairs, and the position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. The second amendment is also from the Committee on Rural Affairs, the position of the lead committee: take full account. So, the amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 87. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U84	Today's sixth item is the first reading of 180 draft law amending the General Part of the Civil Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws (expansion of electronic possibilities in organising meetings and taking decisions). Minister of Justice Raivo Aegis of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U85	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The government has submitted a draft to the Riigikogu for discussion, with which we take one major step forward in the digital society. This is a change in company law, which we have been organising in the Ministry of Justice and preparing for some time in the revision of company law funded by the European Union. The draft is the result of a very effective cooperation and the final touch was made by Urmas Volens and Andres Vuti, members of the review team, as well as several interest groups such as the Estonian Bar Association, Nasdaq Tallinn AS, NGO Finance Estonia, the Estonian Insurance Association, the Estonian Private and Venture Capital Association, the Estonian Employers' Confederation, the Estonian Service Economy Chamber, and the Ministry of Justice. The need to draft the bill was particularly clear after the Government of the Republic had announced an emergency situation on 12 March 2020. However, the solutions proposed are intended to be used even after the emergency situation has ended. The draft amends the General Part of the Civil Code Act, the Apartment Ownership and Apartment Association Act, the Non-profit Association Act, the Law on Foundations, the Law on Commercial Cooperatives, the Commercial Code and the Law on the Amendment of the Commercial Code. The majority of the votes in favour of the Riigikogu are necessary for the adoption of the draft act. The Act shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the State. Now, closer to the bill. The highest decision-making bodies of legal persons, the general meeting of shareholders and members, make the most important decisions that shape the activities of legal persons. In a crisis where people's gatherings have become difficult, it is clear how much the decision-making of legal persons is dependent on physical meeting meetings. In particular, it has emerged that the current law allows electronic voting only to a limited extent for certain types of companies. The draft extends the possibility for all legal entities to vote not only electronically, but also participate in the meeting and take decisions without a normal physical presence. From now on, it is expected that the meeting can be attended both electronically and on arrival. And if the association wishes to rule it out, it must set it out separately in its articles of association. We have made four basic changes and one technical clarification on the disposal of parts. Firstly, the rethinking of the concept of a meeting of a legal person in the General Part of the Civil Code Act must be considered to be the most important. Electronic participation in the meeting shall be equated with physical participation in the meeting. In recent weeks, we have probably all experienced the possibility of holding a meeting without leaving home and physically meeting. All existing terms and conditions for convening the meeting shall remain in force. The invitation shall be sent at the time and place of the meeting, the agenda and any other information required by the law or the articles of association. It should be taken into account that the decision on how to conduct the meeting, whether electronically or physically, will continue to be taken by the person in charge of organising the meeting. As a rule, it is the board of directors or the board of directors of the association. Not all meetings can necessarily be held as a Skype Conference. The current requirements of the quorum for decision-making remain, which is particularly important for non-profit organisations, including housing associations. Secondly, without convening the meeting, decisions can be taken in writing by public limited liability companies in addition to housing associations and private limited liability companies. In significantly simpler conditions than in the past, decisions can be made by non-profit organisations, foundation councils and profit cooperatives. Thirdly, private limited liability companies and public limited liability companies will simplify the rules for voting before the meeting by abolishing the formal requirement for voting. From now on, the organiser of the meeting will be able to choose the form in which voting is possible, whether in writing, digital signature or via an e-solution. The only condition is to give a vote at least in a format that can be reproduced in writing, which may also be, for example, a log. This is necessary so that, in the event of disagreements, it can later be proved who voted and how. Fourthly, the obligation for non-profit organisations to send to the registrar, as an annex to the minutes, a self-signed list of all participants in the meeting. This has been the case until now, even if the application is submitted electronically. As the fifth amendment, we propose to enforce the abolition of the notarial formality of a part of the transfer and pledge transaction as soon as possible, i.e. on the entry into force of this draft, rather than on 1 August, as was previously planned. Notarised proof of transactions has become difficult in a crisis situation due to restrictions on movement and it will take longer than before to get foreign documents to Estonia. The economic situation is unstable and the flexibility of the possibility of raising capital is therefore particularly important. While the possibilities for remote proof of transactions have widened, it is still possible to carry out transactions in this way only if a person can sign a digital signature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U86	Thank you, dear waitress. Minister, there are some questions for you. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U87	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I am also of the opinion that extending the scope of legal entities is today's keyword. It is very important that they are able to make their decisions operationally. But we know that the more such attributes or such additional opportunities come into being, the more the question of accessibility will inevitably arise. Therefore, I would simply like to ask: to what extent has this draft taken into account that the organiser of the meeting, who is competent to hold a meeting, must take into account the accessibility of people with special needs? Or let us take a simpler example: to what extent it has to take into account whether all shareholders have access to the Internet and other accessibility issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U88	Thank you for your question. This draft law provides for an additional possibility to hold these meetings electronically. At the same time, this 'early way of holding a meeting', or physical participation, remains. If it is not possible for people to attend the meeting by electronic means, they must be given the opportunity to participate physically. The possibility of attending a meeting must not be taken away from anyone. But the bill offers an extra opportunity. I also described these different needs here. It is also extremely important for the convener or organiser to have a quorum in order to have a quorum. So I guess you're gonna have to take this wholesome approach. The organiser of the meeting shall provide people with access and opportunity to participate so that the quorum is available and the decisions are competent.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U89	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U90	Thank you. Dear Minister, My concern is the holding of votes. Let's say it's a secret vote, 400 delegates in the hall. On which platform or how can secret voting be carried out electronically so that those who voted in the first place can be identified? And how will it be possible to check the results of these votes afterwards? I mean, not who voted the way, but how many votes were cast by one person or another? But first, the secret vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U91	Well, there must be an analogous technological solution for the secret vote, as is the case in the elections by electronic means. After all, there is no way to identify which person voted specifically, this is a secret vote. Similarly, this voting system must be structured in such a way as to ensure secrecy. Mrs Heljo Pikhof, you are shaking your head, but if there is a need for a secret vote, the organiser of the meeting, if he wishes to do so electronically, must ensure that the system guarantees its secrecy. This is a requirement and, if this requirement cannot be met, people must be invited to participate physically, to be given ballots, a ballot box, as is always the case with secret voting, if the secrecy of electronic voting cannot be guaranteed. This is a legal requirement. Of course, we may not be able to do the same with this bill, just as we are not saying whether our elections by electronic means are sufficiently secure and whether it is guaranteed that no one is manipulating, or whether it is guaranteed that no one will know who voted for whom. It's a matter of trust.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U92	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U93	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The emergency situation has demonstrated the necessity of this draft. In this sense, it is certainly a step in the right direction. It is a good thing that we do not necessarily have to travel figuratively across Estonia to Tallinn always in order to hold one meeting, but can also do so electronically. But I have discovered a new facet for myself and I will say an apology in advance if I was not attentive enough in the Commission. Am I right to understand that it is not possible to hold meetings by electronic means alone? Should the so-called possibility of being physically present be guaranteed in any case? That's news to me. If this option always remains, I don't see the problem that Jüri Jaanson referred to. We really have been holding different meetings every day for two months, practically every day, via video channels, and what we can deny is that we are much smarter today than we were two months ago. Technical problems may indeed be a problem, but if you confirm that the possibility of physically participating must in any case remain, there is no problem. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U94	I have understood that people must also be guaranteed the possibility of attending the general meeting physically. For example, if a person cannot or does not want to participate electronically, the right to participate in the decision-making process cannot be deprived of the right of a shareholder or shareholder. It must be guaranteed. If this is not the case, then a person must be able to physically come and express his or her mind. If you are now questioning this, it really must be taken into account in the procedure for this draft, and this confidence must be put there in the Commission. But I will say once again that my understanding of the matter has been that no one is being deprived of their rights, but that more rights will come. One thing is that Estonia does not need to travel from one side of the country to another, but we are currently having difficulty crossing the border and if you come from abroad, you will be quarantined for two weeks. And if you go abroad, you'll be quarantined for two weeks. Similarly, it does not make sense for shareholders and investors to travel when they know that they have to spend two weeks quarantined somewhere in a hotel.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U95	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U96	Thank you. Dear Minister, Here's the question. This draft states that the meetings held by electronic means shall be subject to the provisions laid down in the decision to be taken by the meeting of the body concerned. So it's a law or a statute. And that's understandable. The question now is that since we actually have a law that allows us to develop our own order differently from the law, and since the statute is equivalent to a contract, if the statute states that there cannot be an electronic meeting, does that mean that there cannot be an electronic meeting?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U97	Yeah, that's right. It is thus stipulated that when the law enters into force, the possibility of holding meetings will automatically be extended by electronic means. If the company decides that it will not allow any electronic meetings, it must confirm it in its statutes or make an amendment thereto. That is our principle, indeed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U98	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, First of all, I congratulate this bill. This is certainly a major step forward in our digital society. But the question I have is the same as the questioners. That is precisely the guarantee of participation. We can think that there are certainly some older people who do not have the necessary digital skills, and you say that physical participation must be ensured. But does the bill in any way take into account that if this is not guaranteed, will there be a right of appeal for someone whose rights have been violated? Is there any way to suggest that this general meeting was held in a way that violates the law and that the decisions taken are not legitimate? Is there a right of appeal in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U100	As I was saying, my understanding of this whole thing is that we have discussed it in our house and debated it over the fact that a person must be guaranteed the right to participate. What about the argument now? I imagine that the person will first file the appeal with the board. And then if his wish is not taken into account, then the next point of appeal is the court, where these differences can be settled.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U101	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U102	Thank you. Dear Minister, I read in the explanatory memorandum that the change would equal the participation of a legal person in a physical meeting and by electronic means. This means that the members of the body can take decisions in part and in full by electronic means. In the first case, some members of the body are present at a so-called "normal meeting' and others participate by electronic means, in the second case, all participants are present in different places and all communications take place by electronic means. This means that it is a full electronic meeting. Nowhere has it been said that if one member or two members require physical presence and the others can participate electronically, that there must be that possibility. But my question is still about the IT solution. You said it was all about trust. Of course it is, but when 400 people vote, there must be an environment somewhere. Will the state, then, make this environment so that these votes can be made secretly? It's not a housing company, it's not a party or a non-profit organization. Actually, there's gotta be this environment somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U103	Thank you. However, today it is not the intention of the state to commit itself to creating some kind of universal digital environment, where all associations, be they profit or non-profit, can start holding their electronic meetings. It is still a question of the associations' choice of what environment it uses. After all, in the current crisis situation, we ourselves use the various platforms we use to hold these meetings. And I guess these same associations have the choice of the conference platform they use, it's Teams or it's Skype or something else. In this regard, no one can dictate that there has to be one or the other. However, as I said in the introduction, all these decisions and those votes, if they are not secret votes, must be in a re-presentable form, so that they can be reproduced in writing. That's what a log is for in an information system somewhere. But in a few words, I'm going to mark here what the landscape of our cooperatives is like. We have 263134 different associations. Associations with one and two shareholders are among them in total 193677. To be more precise, there are 158888 of the 193677 single-member private limited liability companies, 34769 double-member companies. So the lion's share of our associations is a one or two-member private limited liability company. In these, I imagine, there is no particular problem of digitally holding meetings with each other when both have a computer and both have sufficient computer or other electronic skills. Once again, if this cannot be done, then the meeting must still be held physically. Your question was that if there are, for example, a party's general assembly or congress, where there are hundreds or thousands of people together. In such a case, the holding of an electronic meeting is, indeed, relatively complicated. However, if there is a credible voting system, there could be a vote in itself for such a large quorum.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U104	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U105	Good manager! Good waitress! Indeed, there are many associations, but most are small. But now we have discussed that Parliament should be able to vote electronically in this Chamber in times of crisis. This is, in my view, a commendable initiative to give such an opportunity more broadly, and, as I understand it, it will remain in force beyond the emergency situation. But has the Fatherland planned to make its next congress electronically, or is it that some will come, some older people, and others will be away somewhere? Is there anything specific?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U106	Thank you. No, we have not discussed this at any level, either in the political group, in the Bureau or, less so, in the General Assembly, such an option that in the near future we will be holding large bodies electronically. However, we have indeed discussed the possibility of creating an electronic voting system. If I remember correctly, a project or study was commissioned a few years ago to see how it would work and how it would be possible to create an electronic remote voting system. So Fatherland has been a party with a long and advanced and open view years ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U107	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, According to the draft, a member of a body of a legal person may also attend a meeting and exercise his rights there by electronic means. But if there is such a problem that people may not always be good, they want to take a decision where a person's presence is not considered desirable, and even stays away and votes by electronic means, but at one point his voice is lost, or the communication is lost, etc. The result is that the voice of this person is virtually lost. If he starts the process and maybe even starts the trial, it will all be time-consuming and, in fact, the whole idea for which such a vote took place has long gone missing. How can such a process be avoided? Is that what you've been thinking about this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U109	Well, once again, you have to admit there are always bad people. Bad thoughts are still being pursued, and fraud is being tried. We can't get rid of it in society, not one society has gotten rid of it. But this bill is written on the assumption that things are done in a business world that has good practices and respect for shareholders. And if it is attempted to bypass or violate the guarantees or rights prescribed by law, then it must still be resolved in conjunction with other laws, whether through misdemeanour proceedings, criminal proceedings or civil proceedings. A person must be able to defend his or her rights. True, it may take some time, I admit it. But if there is no other way, then that time must be taken to enforce its rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U110	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U111	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I was actually very pleased to hear and understand clearly that the meeting by electronic means is an additional opportunity and that, in any case, the organiser of the meeting must also ensure a physical meeting if desired. This means that the organiser of the meeting is not only able to organise the meeting by electronic means, but must also ensure the possibility of being physically present. My question is about the organiser of the meeting. Should he or she be physically present in a situation where a attendee wishes to be physically present, or may he or she be in charge of a meeting somewhere far away? How do you see it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U112	Can the organiser of the meeting be away, not in the meeting room? Well, maybe that's possible in itself. If you let your fantasy fly, you can imagine putting up a large screen in a hall or having a big TV or whatever or everyone has in front of their own PC and watching from a distance how the manager, who gives the floor, manages the agenda. In essence, that could be possible. But if I'm thinking of the option that you suggested that people wish to attend a meeting, whose need for physical participation comes from having a disability, I don't know, for example, a visual impairment, and he doesn't see what's on the screen, or any other disability, when the meeting manager acts at a distance, that objective is essentially not being met. However, there is still a great deal to take into account, in particular, what opportunities exist in a profit-making or non-profit organisation, how an electronic meeting can be agreed on, what these options are. And once again, the general rule is that if you're a partner or a shareholder, you're the owner. And the owner's wish must be taken into account in any case. Owners must be able to express their views and wish to be taken into account. It's such a simple logic. But once again, if someone maliciously wants to eliminate someone, I imagine that there is still a chance to do so, not send a call to the meeting, or send it too late, and then justify it in one way or another. Surely there are tricky ways to hold a physical meeting. You can still say that? From whomever will take the opportunity to realise their rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U113	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I was a little late earlier. But the fact that an electronic meeting is a grateful opportunity is certainly not of minor importance. It is not everyone's right to require an electronic meeting; it must still be the decision of the management body of the legal person. Can't be that I insist, and then I'm sure the meeting will be held electronically. But now perhaps a somewhat surprising question. Have you considered that in five years' time, for example, it would be an obligation to allow a certain proportion of shareholders to attend meetings electronically? Of course it won't be overnight, it'll all take time, but if we make that decision in five years' time, we could declare that it's unexpected for someone again. Why not think that in five years' time, there could be an obligation to be able to participate electronically? And the second question in this regard. Is it permissible to combine: say, a physical meeting and an electronic meeting, plus taking decisions in writing? That some who do not show up do not participate electronically or physically, but take decisions in writing. Will this opportunity be given according to this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U115	This is still possible in certain cases. For example, housing associations have the right to make written decisions outside the meeting. For example, members of housing associations are asked how many times a week we have to mow the lawn around the house, either once or three times. They can express their views in writing and the minority is subject to a majority. It's an opportunity. In fact, this written decision concerns the operational nature of the meeting. If letters are to be sent by post, it is not possible to take this decision together at a specific meeting, and the decision will not be known until a few days later. If there is a letter signed electronically or digitally, where a person writes one word in the Word format, either 'yes' or 'no', digitally and immediately posts it, this is obviously possible. And it's essentially equal to the fact that you've been given a chance to vote on some kind of platform.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U116	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U117	Thank you. Good minister! For my part, I also assure you that this is a very good initiative, a very good draft by its very nature. But my colleague, Kivimägi, threw a hot ball in the air here, and it gave me another big question: he took away my old question, and I have to rephrase it. I am based on the fact that, as we know, the form is very important, especially in the case of organ meetings. And we have both the acquis itself and the legal practice and the case law very clearly established that if the conditions for holding and convening meetings are violated, it is quite easy to cancel the meeting. We also know from your speech that physical and electronic presence is equalized by law. We also know that if the statute does not prohibit an electronic meeting, then it will be equivalent to a regular meeting. I conclude from this, and that is the question of the fact that, in a situation where the physical meeting of the body is to be guaranteed anyway, electronic space must also be provided in parallel. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U118	When you think about how it's going in real life, no private limited company is going to be there in any way... I'm sure the bigger ones can do that. We were talking here, for example, about parties that really have more resources, but generally, existing electronic platforms are still being used. It will be agreed on which platform the meeting will take place. There are actually quite a few possibilities. We do not only have Skype, which is our own honorable production, which is starting here in Estonia. Different platforms have also come from elsewhere. But that, of course, has to be agreed first. This is what is called virtual space. That's how I see it. If we shut down the conference room, it's about providing physical space. When we say that we are holding our meeting on a virtual road, such as Skype, it is the provision of a virtual space that the organiser of the meeting announces. So far, he has announced that the meeting will take place at Lossi plats 1a, room number it and this, hereinafter he will announce in advance that in the virtual space we will meet at such a web address. And it will be entered, for example, by using a PIN to ensure that only those who have been invited will actually attend the meeting. This is not an open virtual space in the sense that anyone can attend a meeting of the board of a public limited company or a private limited company. I don't know if that was an exhaustive answer or not. But providing space is linked to the need to agree between the participants first where we can meet and to inform everyone about it. And you come in physically, or you enter the virtual space.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U119	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U120	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, When I asked the shareholders or some of their owners about the maliciousness of the vote, you said that you did not believe it and you indicated that your rights could be protected either in civil proceedings, criminal proceedings or misdemeanour proceedings. This is, of course, a long process when judicial proceedings are pending. Would it not be possible to include in the draft the possibility that, if there is an obstacle to electronic voting, it will be possible to challenge the vote to be reproduced within a few days, such as one, two or three days? The problem could be solved immediately and would not go into a very large circle.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U121	There are certainly those electronic options. For example, you can also create a special app. If a person has done his or her act, it will be recorded, even if there is no Internet connection at that time, it will be interrupted for some reason. In retrospect, it can be identified as a 'log-based', which is at the moment and how one or the other participant made his or her decision at the meeting. And secondly, if you can see that there is no connection, then it is possible to suspend the vote for some time. After all, we are talking about good business practice, respectful attitude towards members of our private company, company or even non-profit organisation. They shall wait until the communication has been restored and everyone shall be able to take part in the vote. There's a lot of options to be around. Indeed, we have experienced technical failures during all these virtual meetings. The picture often hangs, sometimes hacks, and whatever else, sometimes turns off. But with good will, good leadership, all these problems can certainly be overcome in a normal way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U122	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U123	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I will ask a practical question about the annual reports. June 30th, as far as I know, should be the deadline. How do you feel? Has this draft become good enough that the various so-called organisations that have not been able to organise the general meeting and approve the annual report due to the special situation can rely on this draft to become a law? Will they be able to carry out their general meeting in this way, or will they still have to hold a physical general meeting quickly after the state of emergency has ended? And maybe there are some differences planned for this deadline this year? Have you looked at it in that light?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U124	Our view is that if the draft is adopted as a law, it is not justified to extend the deadline for submitting this report. This provides an opportunity to submit the annual accounts within the deadline. [[They say something in the hall.]] Well, it's in your hands how the bill goes on and when it will be adopted. Of course, there is a possibility that it will not be enforced in time as a law. That's when the deadline has to be extended, of course. When the State has created obstacles to mobility, the obstacles to meeting , I am talking not about single- and two-member private limited companies, but about larger ones, this position must obviously be changed and the deadline for the submission of the annual report should be extended.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U125	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U126	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The questions in this Chamber describe a number of potential risks associated with holding meetings by electronic means. At the same time, the explanatory memorandum states that Denmark and Germany, for example, have set an example in a number of analyses of the company law revision. There's been this opportunity before. Do you have any information on whether these risks have been realised in these countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U127	Thank you for your question. I don't have that kind of information.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U128	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U129	Good manager! Good waitress! In fact, we stand before a new reality and do not know what the future will be like. And my question is, is this one big step on the road to physical loneliness? People don't come together anymore. They usually meet in the virtual world? Perhaps instead of traveling, people look virtually at some southern beach. Or is it just an innovative and practical step, an opportunity? How much do you think it actually realizes? We have these quarter of a million unions, and even though a few hundred thousand are one or two men's. In how many associations will this actually take place in five years' time? You can see from my colleague Kivimäe that all of this could be mandatory in five years' time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U130	Thank you for your question. I hope that people will still be able to communicate face-to-face and that at some point this situation will end, where more than 10 people must not get together and there must be two metres between people and have to sit in the mask, just as you are sitting here. The good times come back when people can normally be together and communicate with each other. This is indeed such an additional opportunity. And one motive is this special situation in which we are now in existence and where these restrictions apply. But the world is increasingly moving towards higher speeds. There are also cases where meeting in the virtual environment is considered more reasonable in terms of rationality and time. There's no need to get together physically in any case. After all, it also depends on what weight decisions need to be made in one case or another. At times, it seems necessary to sit at a round table and be seriously disolated. Sometimes the meeting is more formal and then it is really a rational solution to save resources and save time, the meeting is held virtually and decisions are made in the virtual world. It's a pretty realistic future. How much specifically is going on about this, who can say that today? But I think it's probably getting more and more popular. If such opportunities are given, they will be tested. I am even looking at the fact that now, because of the emergency situation, this is forced online meetings, people are taking it quite a bit of a pleasure, and they are not so eager to come together in the same room. It's a habit thing, an admission thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U131	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Marek Jürgenson, member of the Legal Affairs Committee, please be a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U132	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On Thursday 23 April, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the draft law 180. Jaanus Karilaid and Commission members Marek Jürgenson, Uno Kaskpeit, Toomas Kivimägi, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Heljo Pikhof, Urve Tiidus, Vilja Toomas took part in the meeting. As in this Chamber today, Minister Raivo Aeg gave a very thorough overview of this draft and answered questions that actually overlapd with the questions put in this Chamber today. Perhaps the most important example of the German and Danish audit was the one that spoke to us. The Ministry of Justice carried out an audit on certain points and stated that the conduct of general meetings by electronic means had not caused any complications. As a result of the above, the current pandemic crisis also has positive aspects. And one positive side is that e-solutions will be used more boldly. And according to that logic, the Ministry of Justice has prepared this draft. The draft was quite commendable in the Commission. Consequently, it was decided, first, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 4 May. The decision was voted in favour by consensus by all members of the committee present. Secondly, to propose the termination of the first reading, the decision was also consensual. Thirdly, to propose that the deadline for the amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 6 May was also consensual and that Mr Jürgenson be appointed rapporteur. This decision was also consensual. So I ask you to be in favour of this draft if there is a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U133	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Does the political groups of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 180. First reading is over. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 6 May at 4 p.m. Today's sixth item has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U134	Let's keep going. The seventh item is the first reading of the draft law amending the State Border Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'd like to ask the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U135	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! We come up with a practical initiative, the need of which is born of life itself. In fact, the draft law amending the State Border Act deals with some points which, indeed, in practice, require legislative correction. In the draft, we touch on four important areas and read them one by one. Firstly, the draft law amending the State Border Act aims to establish a border zone and amend the provisions of the border strip in order to meet real needs. And then the real needs are like this. The design of the eastern border and the construction of the test sections have shown that it is very difficult to build the elements necessary for border surveillance on a ten-metre border strip. The landscape is varied. I myself have been practically many miles on the eastern border, more specifically on the southeast border with the border guards, and they have demonstrated to me how varied it is. Indeed, in most places, 10 metres may be enough, but there are places where the construction of the necessary infrastructure needs a wider border band. And it makes sense for us to allow this in a legislative way, based on practical needs and landscape configuration. It is also important to note that the border strip is only introduced at the land border , and it does not concern the border on the shores of the Narva River and Lake Peipsi or, more specifically, on the water bodies. No border band will be established there. Another important point is the establishment of a border zone. The border zone is significantly wider and would reach up to five kilometres from the real border line. Currently, there is no border zone legally regulated at the level of the Act within the land border in Estonia. The obligation to coordinate activities is laid down in a regulation, but for reasons of legal clarity and comprehension it must also be established by law. The establishment of a border zone does not create a new restricted zone as different regulations, rules on the border regime, procedures for cooperation in drawing up plans and the basis for coordination of plans already lay down restrictions and coordination obligations for activities less than five kilometres from the external borders in the case of planned activities. According to the State Border Act, the police have the right to restrict the movement and stay of persons in a border area, but that means that there is a right, not an obligation. The area close to the border is widely interpreted and it is not clear to what extent the area is considered to be close to the border. By establishing a border zone and determining its width, we are creating clarity as to the extent to which the police have the right to restrict the movement of persons and, if necessary, to stay there. The border zone would form a border strip of land parallel to a border strip of up to five kilometres, towards the interior, i.e. the territory of the Republic of Estonia, taking into account the size and natural conditions of the land needed to guard the state border. A border zone with a width of 5 kilometres shall be established at the land border. It is not necessary to establish a 5 km border zone from the lake Lake Peipus, as visibility is good and natural obstacles, unlike small lakes such as Vanik, Kriiva and Pabra, Pattina. The width of the border zone is determined by the Government of the Republic by its decree. To mark a border zone, signs and other signs shall be affixed giving people the opportunity to be aware and to point out that a person is close to the external border. Now. There is a point in the law concerning the organisation of entry at a road border crossing point. The entry of vehicles to the road border crossing point is currently organised by the Ministry of the Interior. As the activities fall essentially within the administration of the Police and Border Guard Board, the draft empowers the Minister of the Interior to authorise the PBGB to organise the entry of vehicles to a road border crossing point. The PBGB, in turn, has the right to conclude administrative contracts to organise the entry of vehicles to a road border crossing point. The current maximum fees for organising the waiting queue for border crossings are from 2011 when they were converted from kroons to euro with the precision of a cent. The draft applies the principle set out in the State Fees Act and establishes the amount of the fee to be charged for organising the queue for border crossings with an accuracy of EUR 1. I'll give you some examples. Sequence: valid limit of EUR 1.59, new limit of EUR 2 Passenger car waiting period of €6.39, new limit of €7. Similar examples could be provided for other means of transport. One more addition. The right to cross the external border with a valid identity card issued by Estonia, a Member State of the European Union, a Member State of the European Economic Area or the Swiss Confederation is created when leaving a country that recognises the identity card as a travel document. The current version provides that an identity card may be used to cross the external border, provided that this is provided for in an external agreement. However, traineeships are acceptable when countries transmit document recognition information through official channels. At present, such countries are Serbia and Georgia, and the United Kingdom is most likely to be among them after Brexit has been completed. Among the special procedures of the Riigikogu Act is not the coercive introduction of invitations to establish identity with a special identification measure, the detention of a person, security checks, the screening of a person or entry into possession and the examination of the property. This is then calculated that border controls require the use of these specific measures in accordance with the procedures laid down in the national border law. And I don't have anything more important to add here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U136	Thank you. Minister, there are no questions for you. And now I would like to ask Paul Puustusmaa, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to act as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U137	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Minister for his presentation. As we understand it, this is quite a technical law. Of course, as the Minister said, it comes from the needs of life itself. It is not intended to solve anything other than the problems that have arisen in particular. The draft law amending the State Border Act has been developed to strengthen the existing border regime and the surveillance of the state border. It sets out various legal definitions and addresses the reasons for amending the existing law. It has been specifically pointed out that we have a border zone provided by law, which was previously not in the law. The organisation of entry and charging of vehicles at the road border crossing point has also been addressed. If this bill was in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it did not raise any serious questions. This was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 21 April. The meeting was chaired by Paul Puustusmaa and attended by Commission members Kalle Grünthal, Marek Jürgenson, Kaja Kallas, Siim Kiisler, Lauri Läänemets, Hanno Pevkur, Martin Repinski and Taavi Rõivas. Of course, Minister of the Interior Mart Helme and Head of the Border Guard Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, Janek Mägi, Adviser Viljar Kärk and Legal Adviser Gerly Herm were also present. As here, the Minister pointed out all the important moments and I will not discuss them separately. It'll just be a futile rerun. But I'll stress one nuance. As I said earlier, defining the border zone is certainly an important thing that we did not have before in law. It was also stressed in our session that the regulation on entry to the road border crossing point has been in place for more than ten years, and is now amending it. This part is relatively substantial in the draft, as regulation is intended to make it easier for people to read. The current version is simply difficult to interpret. And this is another very grateful thing that we come from solving problems by simplifying some regulations. When the session was over, the committee supported the ten-day deadline for amendments to the Riigikogu pursuant to the Rules of Procedure and Home Act. It was proposed that the draft be put on the agenda by today's day, 4 May 2020, and that the chairman of the committee, Mr Paul Puustusmaa, be appointed rapporteur and that the first reading be closed. All these procedural decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U138	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you either. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft 178. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 18 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U139	Today's eighth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Aliens Act, Income Tax Act and Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic (145 SE). I'd like to ask the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U140	Mr. President! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The previous draft, which I have just presented here, was written about practical needs. It is true that these were needs of a somewhat more technical nature than those of this draft, which I am about to introduce. However, this bill is also born of life itself and practical needs to make adjustments. What are these practical needs? I'll get some statistics. Recently, we have had heated debates on migrant labour and it is quite understandable that, in a situation where many sectors of the economy have become accustomed to using migrant labour in recent years, there are also interest groups who are actively expressing their views on this issue. To make it as clear as possible what we're talking about, some numbers. Registrations for short-term employment: 2017 there were 7509, 2018 to 19805, 2019 to 32274 in Estonia. The numbers, as you can see, have grown very quickly and very dramatically. This has created a situation where there are more and more foreigners who are legally present in Estonia, but who violate the conditions of employment in Estonia or misuse the possibilities of employment every year. What does that mean for us in financial terms? According to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board's estimates, as of the first quarter of 2019, as a result, we were expected to lose €8.7 million on working foreigners, €13.87 million on the second quarter of 2019 and €16.5 million on the third quarter of 2019. As you can see, this is a significant tax loss if we do not clean up the area. And here I have a request that this whole bill not be viewed in any way from an ideological point of view, but precisely from a legal and economic point of view. But more specifically, the bill to yourself. The draft has been designed to contribute to reducing the abuse of the regulation of foreign workers in Estonia and to direct foreigners and their employers to legal abiding behaviour. Increased demand in Estonia has led to a situation in which employers often, I do not say that everyone, and I do not say that they always ignore the conditions laid down in the Aliens Act for working in Estonia or the requirement of a wage criterion. And I often stress: often, not always, the possibilities of recruiting an alien in Estonia are abused, thus avoiding the Estonian labour market protection mechanisms, in particular the wage criterion requirement, but also the payment of labour taxes. For example, there is an abuse where the alleged posted workers do not comply with the characteristics laid down by law, if an undertaking in another European Union Member State does not have a service contract with an enterprise based in Estonia or if the company allegedly operating in another European Union Member State is in fact a "shelf company' or an employee who allegedly works in the European Union Member State of posting has never been there or plans to go there. We can also point the finger here at these infamous Polish temporary agency workers. The purpose of the draft is therefore to prevent the violation of the rules on working in Estonia and the circumvention of tax liability and to introduce additional measures to reduce the abuse of the rules on the employment of foreigners in Estonia and their taxation. The draft is based on the definitions of the employer and user company laid down in the Employment Contracts Act and on the concept of the host entity laid down in the Aliens Act, which is not currently covered by the provisions of the Employment Contracts Act. The Bill intends to create additional obligations in the Aliens Act for the employer, the alien and the user company. They provide that (a) if the factual activity of an alien does not correspond to the legal basis and purpose of working in Estonia, the employer and the alien are obliged to rely on the legal bases to which the activity corresponds and, in the event of non-compliance with the obligation, the Police and Border Guard Board is able, first and foremost, to give the employer, as well as the alien, a precept and to implement a coercion with a ceiling of EUR 32000; (b) if an alien is engaged in renting or providing a service in Estonia, the user undertaking is required, in addition to checking that an alien working with him or her has a legal basis in Estonia to stay and work in Estonia, to ensure that the alien is working in accordance with the legal basis given in Estonia and the contract or other agreement concluded between the employer and the user company. In the event of non-compliance with this obligation, the Police and Border Guard Board will be able to subsequently prosecute and sanction a user company under the Aliens Act with a financial penalty of up to 300 fine units for a natural person and up to EUR 32000 for a legal person. The regulation also clarifies the burden of proof by requiring the employer, user undertaking, responsible entity and alien to prove that the factual activity of an alien in Estonia corresponds to the legal basis and purpose of working in Estonia if an alien works in Estonia under conditions other than the general basis of working in Estonia, for example as a seasonal worker or as a posted worker. For clarification: the employer does not need to prove the general basis of work. All right. I have already talked about financial matters somewhat, but as a result of the amendment of the Income Tax Act and the Tax Administration Act, the right to tax the income of non-residents working in Estonia is specified and non-resident entrepreneurs who have employees in Estonia are required to register with the Estonian Tax and Customs Board and to respect income tax on wages. The amendment affects foreign workers, i.e. third-country nationals who violate the conditions of employment in Estonia or abuse different legal aliens' opportunities to work in Estonia. It also affects employers who use foreign labour and violate the conditions of employment of aliens in Estonia, do not comply with established requirements or abuse different legal aliens' opportunities to work in Estonia. It also concerns the officials of the Police and Border Guard Board who, in accordance with the law, carry out procedures relating to the right of aliens to stay, reside and work in Estonia, and the officials of the Tax and Customs Board who control compliance with tax obligations. Basically, this bill means protecting both foreigners working in Estonia and their employers, specifying the procedures that apply to the whole area. When the procedure is followed, the so-called grey areas have actually been abolished and all the officials, employees, employers and all of them, have a significantly higher level of legislative clarity on how to deal with the various cases. And that's all I'm gonna say for the introduction.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U141	Thank you, Minister. No questions for you! And I now ask for Taavi Rõivas, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U142	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft a few months ago. And we had a proposal to put this on the plenary agenda already on 16 March, but obviously, since there was already an emergency at that time, we agreed later that we would discuss this draft once the situation had calmed down. During the debate, various problems were raised, but I am already predictably saying that a consensus was reached that this draft is basically needed to reduce opportunities for tax fraud and to harmonise an honest tax environment for all. The questions and the subject-matter related, among other things, to the fact that in some ways the state of Estonia is in a situation where different possibilities related to temporary agency workers are used, in some ways it has caused itself to have quite severe restrictions on taking up work in Estonia. Temporary work, as well as short-term work, is seen as an opportunity to go past this 0.1% quota. There was quite a debate around it, there were different questions and different approaches, but I am not going to pass all this on here in terms of time savings. I will pass on the fact that a consensus was finally reached that the first reading of this draft should be concluded. It was also agreed to involve both business organisations and trade unions, who have taken a position on this draft or simply expressed an opinion, in the Commission's debate. Where possible, their suggestions for improvement and observations which could improve the draft shall also be taken into account. The deadline for amendments is 10 working days according to the law. If there are any questions, I'd be happy to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U143	Thank you. Dear waitress, No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 145. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 18 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U144	Let's go! The ninth item on the agenda is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof, Helmen Küti, Indrek Saare, Ivari Padari, Jaak Juske, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Kalvi Tõud, Katri Raigi, Lauri Läänemets and Raimond Kaljulaid on 2 April 2020 for the organisation of home learning during the emergency period. On behalf of the inquisitives, I ask Katri Raigi to be the waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U145	President-in-Office of the Council. Good minister! Members of the Socialist Group submitted their questions on 2 April, as has been said earlier. It's been a month. The original plan was that the Minister should answer the question on 18 May, but the Minister is already here today. This is a good example for other ministers, not to wait until the last day or the day longer, but to come up with important questions, as early as possible, to be answered by the ambassadors. Regulations were adopted today to regulate how comprehensive school or upper secondary school can be completed during this school year. It's a big job. Congratulations, Madam Secretary. However, I would like to take this opportunity to emphasise immediately that it is reasonable to pass the state exams of the upper secondary school, even though they are volunteers this year, because the doors of the higher education institution will be open to today's graduates in a year's time, even if others are already expected to pass the state exams. The road to today through April has been prickly and bumpy in education; there has been much confusion for students in their homes as well as for their teachers, 3,500 teachers who are older than 60 years of age. It was a long and difficult dispute whether the government could decide on a mandate to take or not to take state examinations for one year or several years. Now we know it's limited to this school year. However, there are still questions that remain in the air. Are the basic school students, the kids going to school this year or not? The city of Tallinn has answered this question, the Estonian state as a whole is not, and a clear message is once again very welcome. Now for our questioning at the time. This time, it has been a month longer than usual, but all the questions we have asked at the time are also relevant today, whether or not because at the same time the Estonian education strategy is being prepared until 2035 and today's questions are undoubtedly relevant in the context of the education strategy. We had six questions at the time, so let me introduce them very briefly. The first question we asked was what we have learned from home learning, distance learning and what have been the main challenges. Secondly, what does the Ministry see as its coordinating role in a situation where SA Innove, HITSA and a few other educational units are forming a giant consortium that is more powerful than the Ministry itself? What is the role of the Ministry in this situation? Thirdly, have we not been too strict in home schooling, putting too much pressure on the students? Do we not need common good practice in home learning so that home learning is smoother in the future? The fourth question concerns whether Russian-speaking schools have been more difficult than Estonian-speaking schools. The e-school bag in Russian is thinner, much thinner than in Estonian. If we have decided that we will not decide anything on the issue of Russian-speaking schools in Estonia, then we must also support Russian-speaking students. The fifth question is about providing advice to parents, which is not only relevant during the crisis, but also at any other time. And the sixth question, which has been resolved today, concerns both what happens to the 9th and 12th grade final exams and whether the abolition of the exams was the only one possible or whether the other formats of the exams should have been considered instead. We look forward to the answers of Minister of Education Mailis Reps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U146	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Repsi, to answer the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U147	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Indeed, incredibly fast they have gone in March and April, and we have reached May. If we look at what has taken place during this period, we can say that several other graduates can do scientific research on it in both master's and doctoral studies, not to mention scientists, to analyse what these effects have been in the field of education. The first question asked by the good questioners concerned communication with schools on home learning. First of all, before we go to everyone else's nuances, I very much ask that we use a harmonised vocabulary. In the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, home learning is regulated in a slightly different way. Home learning is a separate application with separate provisions. If we can agree at all times, we will use the term 'distance learning' or 'distance or digital distance learning at home'. Whatever anybody wants. I believe that you, too, have received calls from education organisers and university lecturers to use harmonised terminology. Now for distance training. The first week of distance training, which followed the decision of 13 March, was certainly a very sharp change on Thursday, and on Friday all schools had to rethink the situation with HITSA, Innove, Ministry of Education and Research, school holders and, of course, parents and teachers. We had the experience of one school, Kristiine School, which certainly gave us the opportunity to respond proactively to a number of questions. But if we think about the statistics on this virus now scientists are already doing such mid-term reviews of this first stage, then we can say that these very robust and controversial decisions on the work of schools were certainly the measures that worked. As we know, closing schools meant huge changes for parents, both in transport and elsewhere. Scientists have stated that there is no very high risk of infection among children in itself, unlike many other known viruses. Of course, we were also concerned in the ministry about how schools could cope with such a very rapid change. We had information on digital tools for two years, the use of harmonised digital tools in primary schools, the free Opiq environment, which has been implemented through public procurement, but we did not have this full experience. At the end of the second week, we asked all schools for feedback, not only from those who had approached the Ministry with problems or questions, but from all schools. This took place on 30 March and 1 April. We also got new questions. If split up, it can be said that in the first round, in the first days, technical issues were on the agenda: internet connection, its speed, computer equipment for teachers and students. There were also very detailed technical issues, such as how a rented school computer can be handed home, what additional contracts must be, how a private structure behaves, who has leased computers, what insurances are, etc. The next round was to answer and discuss how to support the teacher. For interviewers, it was a little surprising that a very large part of the problems of Internet access were encountered by teachers at home. The student community worked even better. We discussed together whether and what obstacles might arise, because at the time we did not have a precise prediction of the pandemic. It was not known whether teachers could still work at school and, if so, to what extent they could be in and from school to organise their studies. 4/5 schools, based on statistics, summed up the results of two weeks with the finding that teaching was organised and the burden on students was adjusted. Parents had also received feedback within the first two weeks. Very much has been said about the volume of the student homework. School management, both school leaders and school leaders, made it very clear that in two weeks, the teaching was generally organized. Some individual teachers and some questions were difficult to resolve. In general, it was understood how to distribute homework and regular hours at home. That was perhaps the main question. As we certainly remember from the end of March, the biggest debate was that when the student had first digitally done all the tasks that had been assigned to him in the so-called hour distribution, and then looked at the next column, he saw that there was some homework on the same scale. Maybe it was the biggest place to think. Teachers also spoke of confidence in the use of this whole digital environment. It can be said that schools are in quite different situations in terms of the use of digital technologies. As we remember, we have also had debates on this issue and discussions on the evaluation of digital competences. According to the feedback, 62 schools needed direct support because the teachers there considered their skills to be low. If we look at the total number of schools, we can say that our digital turn has been fertile so far. Now from HITSA. In cooperation with educational technicians, HITSA has provided continuous support. Various online seminars have been organised for kindergarten and classroom teachers, support specialists and, of course, subject teachers. There are groups of best practice sharing in different subjects where teachers can give advice to each other in cooperation with specialists. School leaders have also opened a number of educational technology information lines where they can get answers to their questions. Now let's jump a little forward in time. We picked up feedback for the next round after a month. Students and teachers said that digital skills have generally improved, platforms have become clear. The supply problems had been solved by then, the active needs-based uses in the online environments were working, and digital tools were available by then. After a month, schools also actively conducted feedback polls among children and parents and evaluated how teamwork has started to work. It can also be said that the topic of HEV, or children with our special needs, has been on the agenda all along. We ourselves have paid a great deal of attention to this through the Pathfinder, the Ministry of Education and Research, as well as Innove, and have found a wide range of solutions. It can also be said that if you look at frequently asked questions and decisions, the feedback received from schools has been such that they have been able to make decisions very quickly. There have been direct lines in both the Ministry and the sub-offices, and the information phones have been open all along. I would like to thank everyone from this remote unit who has worked at the headquarters continuously, both in the branch office and in the ministry. All this work has undoubtedly been very, very large. You ask about the coordinating role in home learning. The first and most important answer, of course, is that the Ministry has taken a coordinating and coordinating role. We gather questions from different target groups, from teachers, school leaders, parents, local authorities, vocational schools, higher education institutions as well as adult education and HEV, students abroad and mobility participants. We have gathered them together in the Ministry of Education and Research in a series of so-called repeated questions precisely because, if someone feels that he has a question of some kind, he can quickly find an answer among those dozens of questions. There have also been school lessons in real time in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research, the Estonian Association of Education technologists, universities and companies in April. They are focused on different aspects of learning and teaching. Both Innove, HITSA and NTK have been very professional in operational cooperation. For example, Innove, together with the universities of Tartu and Tallinn, has produced various methodological materials and recommendations for teachers and school leaders. Mental health has been a very important issue. The track forwarder has provided a wide range of advice and experience to support specialists on how to provide additional support to children through digital tools, as well as specific exercises, ranging from logoped to many others. The methodological advice package has also been developed in cooperation with the universities of Tallinn and deals with issues related to peace of mind. One important aspect, which has raised many questions here for several weeks, is, in cooperation with Innove, a joint test of e-tests for entering the upper secondary school. Perhaps it is also important to point out that there has been a separate online seminar for educators, which lasts until 12 May, to support school leaders in particular. HITSA has made a very big leap in e-solution education over these weeks. For example, we will look at e-tools, e-school bags, which have created new teaching materials and provide advice on how to use e-learning materials. On average, 500 people take part in HITSA training alone, with an average of 1,100 watchers on the web, and more follow-up. 923 new courses are open in the modern environment. In the first few weeks of the web seminars, Zoom and Teams had to be taught how to use the environment, while the later ones have already become much more detailed and specific. I realize I'm running out of time. I'm so sorry to the questioners! How do we solve this now? I wanted to talk more about smart youth work and NTK, but I'm afraid I'm gonna have to put that aside. We'll get to the Russian-speaking materials. Well, I've been brief about the homework load. I said there's been a lot of questions. But the most important thing is the autonomy of schools. This is the pride of our education and the strong backbone of our system. There have been many signals throughout the crisis that the Ministry of Education and Research or the Minister should intervene more and more forcefully. Basically, we have given advice and we have been supportive. We will also get very detailed questions that we will solve in cooperation with schools. For example, today there are three seniors on the agenda, and we will resolve these issues one by one. However, we certainly do not want to intervene in the sense that the strong backbone of our education, or the autonomy of schools and municipalities themselves, could somehow harm our own affairs, which is also very important in a crisis situation. So in this respect, we are, yes, rather counseling, coordinating, providing information and teaching material. Now Russian-speaking schools. All HITSA web seminars are with Russian subtitles, but separate Russian seminars have also been made. A digital collection, Sbornik, has also been put together. After all, the e-school bag is only one collection, and the main collection of educational materials is Opiq, where all digital tools are available. And in digital terms, Russian textbooks and workbooks are covered throughout the comprehensive school. I checked, there's 79 units of study property. So there are real Russian-language teaching materials, but yes, there may be fewer such additional resources. But once again, I assure you that, first of all, there is the possibility of using subtitles for HITSA materials, and I believe that very much information can also be obtained from an e-school bag, where most of the teachers are certainly able to follow it in Estonian as well. And now time is running out. I hope that you will continue to help me with the questions, so I can also answer the questions about the dates and arrangements of the exams, about the German and English exams, and what else was the question of the next steps in the granting of education grants to parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U148	Thank you. You really do have questions. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U149	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The Ministry has provided guidance or recommendations to schools to allow children to attend school in part-time small groups from 15 May. Today I was written by a parent from Rakvere, who lives almost four kilometers from Rakvere. A teacher there has decided that from May 15th, she wants to see the children in class. A parent asks if he or she has the right to refuse if his or her child does not have learning difficulties in this subject. Can he continue with distance training on his own under the guidance of a teacher, or can the school somehow sanction this child to not physically attend the class?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U150	Thank you, excellent question! And really, it gives me the opportunity to deal with some of the many pages I didn't get before. There's been a lot of debate over May 15th. It has been asked why the education sector almost three weeks before the general exit strategy was approved, on which all the political groups represented in the Riigikogu have expressed their opinion and have done a great deal of co-operation on this date. We came up with this date so much earlier knowingly because we really didn't get to give you an overview every week. Every week we collected feedback from schools, local authorities and all our social partners. I am pleased to note that business organisations and universities have worked perfectly together, not to mention the Ministry and agencies, in order to constantly map out the points of pain and the questions that are expected to be answered. There was a very clear distinction between a group of students for whom such a digital learning system was generally not suitable and who may have had some anxiety, they needed different support. In addition, we received very clear feedback from university educators so that a transitional period would be needed before going on summer leave, during which students who, according to the teacher, school or support specialists, would need to be actually consulted or met. Such an intermediate phase is certainly needed. At that point in time, we did not have the general idea of whether the emergency situation could be brought to an end in any way and whether there was any hope of getting out of the emergency situation. We understood the risk that there would be a lot of questions here that could not be answered immediately. Now, the answer to you in the broadest sense is that we said from the beginning that this is an exceptional situation. It is necessary to identify the students who need this opportunity. But we realized that local governments also have peculiar municipalities where there is no infection at all. Some lovely island, such as Kihnu, suggested several weeks ago that since they have no infection at all and are relatively cut off, they would like to restore the general order. The simple answer is that we will certainly give this decision-making opportunity to the local government, taking into account, for example, the experience of Kihnu Island or the experience of another very small and relatively isolated community. In South Estonia, quite a number of very good community-based decisions have come that they would certainly like to restore the general order. If, for example, the local government restores transport and it negotiates with the parent, I believe that the majority of parents would support local organisation. The longing for social communication among children is similar to that of adults. Since the parent has very high rights in the Estonian educational system, we also understand that the continuation of distance learning cannot be sanctioned in any way because of the parents' legitimate risk assessment. It is possible to Sanction exclusion, i.e. if the child disappears from the system and the parent does not guarantee participation in his/her studies. But if a parent wishes to continue distance training due to danger, then this option is there. This is also the reason why we received a similar message from all social partners in the organisation of the exams: the 12th grade state examinations in Estonian and mathematics are held for seniors and take place on 29 May, 1. 1 June and 5 June. But they were very urged to be voluntary and to be bound by the conditions of termination, precisely because if a parent, in cooperation with a young person, clearly believes that a young person has either just too much anxiety or that the parent himself does not have enough of such visits, but they are very well founded, then it would still be possible for that young person to graduate. I refer briefly, for example, to correspondence with a father. This was the kind of school where a high school graduate should move quite far from where he lived to take his exams. Father said that he believed that by July the situation would have improved and that universities would accept students under additional conditions. He doesn't want the child to risk it at the end of May or June. It's been discussed with the baby. So there are such decisions too, and I believe that the parent, given the current situation, will in any case retain the right to make a final decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U151	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U152	Thank you. Madam Minister! The issue of special educational needs has been a difficult issue throughout the ages. I remember how it was done in Soviet times when I was in school, and I think it was done rather gruesomely. There were those who needed a special school in Linnamägi, but there were also those who didn't have to go there. I'm out. Today, people have tried to act humanely through inclusive education and have tried to resolve this matter in schools. But when I went to the schools in February, it looks like the other extreme. Looks like the schools are pretty worried about how to handle this. The number of support staff currently employed is quite high. I have two questions. One is how feedback has been received for children with special educational needs and how they have adapted to home learning. Is there any plan in relation to exiting the crisis to better address this issue so that we can ensure a sound schooling that takes account of the interests of children with special educational needs and, on the other hand, of the education received?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U153	Thank you. This question is very broad. It has been taken to be very clear that if a parent wishes to put a child in a school in his/her area, there must be no discrimination on any grounds. A parent must have this opportunity. Of course, at the same time, we must ensure that there are also specialised schools with perhaps better support staff. In certain cases, it may be much better and wiser for a child to be allowed to study at this special school. But the coercion, as the good questioner pointed out, is no longer in the 21st century. A parent does not have to put a child in such a school, but it may be a better choice because of the child's special nature. Without going into detail, we have communities that very much keep their special schools, and it is very important that they are preserved and properly supported in a material way. At the same time, there are schools in certain areas that have remained very, very small, because parents have made a second choice and trust more in the school in their region. Finding a balance is a huge challenge and there is no common solution here. The only thing we can do at the level of the Riigikogu and the Ministry is to see if they need more on the material side or if they need greater freedoms or if we can advise them more, for example, mediate best practices. But yes, the final decision remains to be made by the parent, so we have formed it constitutionally. Has and how have these changes in mid-March affected children with special needs? The feedback is very individual. Participating to children and families is such a home-schooling, as it is now very suitable for a wider range of children, provided that the parent has also had the opportunity to work at home. The feedback from others is that the parent has had to take a separate measure to enable him or her to complete the maintenance sheet. This, too, has partly alleviated the situation. I guess there's a lot of special needs. In the case of children with deep disabilities, the concern has been that there are now fewer day care facilities, which are usually used. There is this labour market problem. But in the broadest sense, schools have dealt with special needs in very different ways. There are children who participate in individual classes by computer. But there are also children who don't like it at all. In thinking of them, feedback from social partners and schools has been asked to allow such a peaceful exit from emergency situations. In the range from 15 May to 10 June when the school ends, it is important to pay particular attention to these sensitive groups. And I will also make one statistical remark, which concerns the question of the next question of questioning more complex cases. Statistically, digital learning has gone into trouble or somehow feels that it is difficult or that 0.65% of students are left out of study. I'm sorry to bring such accurate statistics, but it's more or less repeating the usual statistics on children in learning difficulties. Individual home digital learning is also not suitable for those with general learning difficulties. These groups do not match one to one, some were perhaps less motivated due to a lack of social control, and some special children had an individual approach. However, it can be said that this percentage has not changed very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U154	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U155	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Minister! Before the state of emergency was announced, your proposal to abolish the final exams of basic school was very controversial among the Riigikogu and also among the associations of subjects. Now, with regard to the emergency situation and the virus, we do not have comprehensive school finals this year, but it is clear that, in the long term, this proposal to lose comprehensive school finals will not be supported in this Chamber, and basically will not be supported by student associations. Can you confirm here today that this year really will be very exceptional and you will withdraw this proposal, so in the future there will still be final exams in comprehensive school?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U156	Thank you. No, this debate is basically over. The Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu has stated its position. The debate lasted weeks here. Who believed who didn't believe it was somehow such a religious philosophy issue. In my opinion, the wording that the President signed today was quite well written in the basic school and upper secondary school law, in cooperation with the political groups. Next year, this arrangement will only concern international examinations, creative work and research. These are the consequences of this year's spring distinction. I believe so, good asker, I know what we must definitely come back to. As you will remember, there were other very important issues in the external evaluation package of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, and there must certainly be a return to them. There was, for example, a question of sector-specific level work to see if they could be combined with satisfaction surveys in order not to burden schools with a number of individual tests. In this respect, schools want these surveys to be compact and limited rather than too many. I also believe that this year will also give us this experience so that we can discuss perhaps a slightly more uniform approach to entering secondary school in the future. The crisis period showed that the normal procedure for entering upper secondary school could not be applied. The support of the state was very much expected, and that is why Innove developed an e-test environment. I believe that these discussions will continue in the Committee on Culture, but I think this debate has been held and the present Riigikogu has given its opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U157	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In your reply, you touched on the terminology of home learning and distance learning. You stressed that during an emergency, the expression 'distance learning' should be used because home learning is regulated by law and its content is different from the method that has been practiced in schools and homes during the last one and a half months. Here's my question. As a minister, do you see the need to regulate the framework of distance learning as well? Do you see a greater interest in the future and an opportunity to apply distance learning in Estonian educational life in a completely normal situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U159	Thank you, excellent question! Is it necessary to regulate it or not? With regard to education strategy 2035, it has been proposed that this type of learning should be formulated as a single objective. Of course, it was under discussion at the time, long before we could imagine having such a wide-ranging experience. I believe that regulating it would be a very wise decision. Does that mean regulation at the level of the law? In part, maybe so, but then we have to think about it being worded softly enough to give us the right, but not too much restraint. Looking a little bit at this special situation, how much we had to react to individual cases, maybe some things are very accurately prescribed in the basic school and upper secondary school law, starting with evaluation, graduating from school, all kinds of school arrangements. We're very proud that the schoolgirl has a lot of rights, but maybe some things should be looked at a little softer. But the law is not a child of its time. Now, from distance learning experience or learning through digital or technology, home learning from this angle, as experience has now shown, is home learning by digital means, from distance. I believe and know that there will be a wide range of specialists who would like to discuss such discussions with the Ministry on this subject, which we could take with us from this experience. There is a great deal of this debate at the level of teachers and associations of subjects. I am convinced that this basically makes a difference. Maybe the procedure here for answering questions doesn't give me the time to philosophy right now, but I'm convinced of the change. Does this mean that there will be certain days, perhaps certain periods, in the online environment? Are there any subjects for which it is better suited to teach, or are there groups of children for whom such education is better suited? If we look at small community schools that have developed in great numbers over the years, they are actually a reaction to the same desire for a child to be more at home, to act in his own rhythm. Especially when a parent has the opportunity to work at home, so he may not have to have an apartment in the city, for example, so that the child can attend that school. Maybe it will. As has been noted since the beginning of this crisis, several village shops say that they have not had as good a turnover as they have now been in the crisis for years because people have moved from town to the country and are working at a distance. All the more that we can ensure better internet connections. I'm sure some kind of change will come. Do they come in groups? Do they come in subjects? Of course, it is revolutionary teachers' experience to use different platforms and environments. When we think about what's been achieved in this six-seven-eight week, we'll see that this experience is incredible. There are several thousand people who discuss and monitor real-time events in part of the seminars on the Internet alone. In the case of teachers, this scope has still been significant.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U160	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U161	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The same virus, which is why we are now in a special situation, according to predictions, should be relatively peaceful in the summer, but no one knows what will happen in the autumn. It is said that there is a 50% chance in October-November that it will come back and that the situation could get as complicated as today. Maybe we're doing better, but it's better to be safe than sorry. If everything happens to happen again in the autumn, this means that the period of the virus is feared to be not a month or a half, but, for example, two semesters. If children have to have two semesters of distance learning, I imagine that teachers have had a very good experience, done a very good job, and they can certainly do it, but I think that the way it has been for most children so far, parents are in a relatively difficult situation and two semesters they cannot cope with such a system. I wonder whether and what kind of "adaptation strategy" is being prepared in the ministry and whether this means that teachers should also be involved in this preparation at some point or that so-called schools should be prepared. Is there going to be anything like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U162	Thank you. I dare not say that every day, but it has really been an honor to listen to the best virologists in Estonia, according to my modest assessment, for more than a few days. They don't make predictions, but they do various scenarios, diagrams, and charts. The common message, if I dare say now, I don't want to hurt anyone, is that in the end, we have to learn to live with this virus. I don't think anyone believes that COVID-19 is going to disappear from Estonian society or anything else. However, as to the fact that one way or another has been found by then either, say, a medicine or vaccine with no very high side effects, even a very conservative WHO, not to mention the ECDC, has already signaled that they would rather believe in it. There are more optimistic and pessimistic assessments, but both the European and the World Health Organisation believe that by more or less August we have moved in this direction. If a good questioner asks if the Ministry of Education and Research, in cooperation with the schools, is preparing for no one to go to school in the next academic year, then no, we are not preparing for this scenario at the moment, I have to be honest with you. I think you are also discussing measures, economic packages and everything else here. If Eesti Pank, looking at the designs of both the World Bank and the European Central Bank, took into account three months and already, on this basis, these percentages were very worrying, then I wouldn't want to imagine a lockdown year. It would be such a huge stagnation. But we got a little off the subject of education. I repeat what I said in reply to Signe Kivi that we have gained distance learning experience and we have really realised that we have digital learning tools within the scope of basic school and upper secondary school, we have collections of the best lectures, by very complex subjects and groups. What's the best practice? That's what it is that somebody has put together this super-short lecture and the subject to explain some very complicated thing. And it's reached every school today, every teacher. The teacher at least knows that there is an excellent explanation, scheme, or other teaching tool for one or another lecturer. Well, this experience is irreplaceable. So if we want to bring something positive into this situation in terms of education, it could be a new experience. A teacher who, in some aspects, we all have his strengths and weaknesses I'm sure we'll get that kind of experience from here. As I said, some of the students are on the other side of the world today, for example. In their case, we have experience with World School. And this experience says something similar that some of the learning material can be provided for independent work and digitally for easy learning, but in any case, some part must be given individually, either by Skype or Teams or by any other means of communication. So this balance is necessary. If there is no obligation to be in a digital connection only, then on some day, in some part or in some areas, such as seminars, as in universities where seminars, individual seminars must in any case remain, such social communication will remain in part. But there are things you can do at home. Many school leaders and waking educators already have this distribution in their heads.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U163	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U164	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister for Education and Science, First of all, I thank you for the open and substantive answers you have given in this debate, and thank you also for coming to Parliament two weeks earlier than the initial announcement said. But this is where I get to the awkward part, which, unfortunately, I also need to talk about. We made our inquiry in the middle of the crisis, April 4. When the initial notice came, it turned out that you did not even meet the normal deadlines for responses and only came before us on 18 May, which exceeds the deadline provided for in the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. In the light of both your parliamentary experience and the experience of the opposition, it is certainly not necessary to explain to you what Parliament's role is and how important parliamentary debate is, especially in a crisis situation. Could you tell us what is a summary for you of this question, whether in times of crisis, ministers should come to Parliament as soon as possible, or whether Parliament would rather prevent them from working during the crisis and it would be better if they did not ask questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U165	Thank you. First of all, good questioner, since you've had a chance to be in very weighty ministerial positions, you know that routine. It is usually the case that, alongside all other very important issues, the Minister receives a particularly important announcement that an inquiry has been submitted and that the answer to the inquiry will take place on this and that date. It's kind of routine. I believe that, in terms of communication, we could, for example, give a mutual signal about what time they want answers or at what time they can. At the moment, the procedure is relatively routine, read for weeks, and is reported to be about that time. We could really discuss this aspect of communication, whether or not a question should be answered as soon as possible. At the moment, it is more the date in the Home and Working Procedures Act. And as we know, the officials are very precise, they calculate this date and then they tell us. Yes, I have to admit, in an emergency, I did not deal with this issue very much. Was there a communication problem? I'm sure it was. I have to say that when Katri Raik put this message up on social media, I was extremely surprised that there was a situation in which you had given some kind of signal that the minister should respond as soon as possible, but it was as if not responded. I have to say that I had to investigate for a long time to find out where you've been saying that you'd like answers as soon as possible. So, yes, I have to say that communication was very bad. Should we specify the time and period for answering questions? I believe that, as the law on the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is under discussion all the time, it could, after all, include a clarification 'at first opportunity, but not later than'. I believe that the provision 'at first opportunity, but not later, if' would provide a better way of communicating and communicating with each other. In addition, as the good Reform Party knows, I think the last time you filed an inquiry on Monday, and after a week I came to answer because I had planned to come anyway. And as we know, there has also been the opposite in the case of enquiries: the Minister has planned that he will come on Monday, but exceptionally he has not. I remember how, on such occasions, the opposition always got a deal and a deal. So what we can learn is communicating with, and maybe not just through social media. We all have each other's phone numbers, and we can work these things out on the phone. I've never had any trouble answering. On the contrary, I'd love to come and explain. I understand, of course, that sometimes the answer is more information today, because in the first few weeks, we all thought a lot more about how things would turn out. Today, more information is available because there is an exit strategy. As I already answered the good first questioner, we were the first ones to have the courage to set a deadline. This was due to the enormous desire of schools and social partners to have some kind of road map, and it is easier to respond today with this road map. In the overall part of the exit strategy, the Scientific Council has said that the activities of children and young people should in any case be restored as soon as possible. So in this sense we have more support today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U166	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U167	Thank you. Good minister! You talked about asking for feedback on the entire study organisation. Is that what parents have been asked? And how much feedback is there on how many children are actually taught? I can see from my three children studying at home, and I have also communicated with friends that there is so much that children are given responsibilities and told to do them, but no one really teaches them. For smaller ones, we may be able to do it ourselves, but for bigger ones, it's already complicated. How many of you monitor how many children actually learn these days? And do you ask the parents what's going on at home? They see the situation very closely.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U168	Thank you. The Ministry of Education and Research itself has not conducted a large-scale parental survey, but the feedback received from schools in the fourth week was that most schools had asked for parents' opinion by then. A lot of schools said they're watching what's happening. Whether they did some kind of survey or mapped out more regular questions, I don't appreciate it, but most schools dared to say that our parents' feedback has been like this or something. It was, yeah, the fourth-week experience. However, such broader social studies have been carried out by the State Chancellery, but they do not have an educational topic in this form. And parents who have a question or a problem tend to turn to the Ministry of Education and Research. If we look at the recurring topics there, also in connection with the advice of the Pathfinder parents, we can see that the issue of burden was at the beginning. Well, at the very beginning, technical topics such as computer connection, economics and social background were also drawn. Several citizens' initiatives came up with such a material base, computers. Now, feedback from teachers and schools says that there could actually be some sort of transitional period before the end of the school year, before 10 June, during which the students could be supported. One aspect that was particularly emphasised by teachers of the younger age group was that they would certainly like to see some students individually with their parents to discuss together how it went, because they feel that the students have done very little of their homework, especially younger ones, and it seems rather that parents do their own homework. Such feedback came as well. If you look at older age groups, what we have recommended in the Ministry of Education and Research and what I have personally recommended is that please give feedback to schools. At least my personal experience in several cases has been that indeed, some of the more complex subjects have remained with one student or another in this case, I had no idea about the seventh and ninth graders. I can see the baby's been pissed, but he hasn't figured it out. The feedback from the teachers was different in both cases. In one case, an individual half - hour discussion was conducted with this child • in which the teacher explained the subject and sought to understand what was incomprehensible to the child. The teacher explained this part very individually. The second case was, as I said enthusiastically before, that it was recommended to use such super-short explanations for the substance. The sharing of such best practices takes place, for example, through an e-school bag. Exactly as the good questioner said, if you are told to read this chapter, it is a whole new part, then it is clear that a student may not understand everything. The current textbooks aren't designed to be read alone, on an individual basis. If there's anything that doesn't make sense, there's actually some kind of super-good web seminar somewhere, some kind of super-learning material, and that's what we're trying to share. In general, we have not asked parents for feedback, yes, it has been more of a school level. On the school side, there was a lot of feedback about parents during the first few weeks that they were very, very busy or overburdened. But yes, there have been difficulties with these more complex substances.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U169	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U170	Good President! Minister, thank you very much. I quote, at the beginning of the question, the scholar Tiiu Kuurmet, who, a few days ago, wrote in Postimees on 2 May that there had been an apparent inclusion in education strategy 2035: 'Inclusion is, it doesn't matter. [---] A member of society is seeking flexibility and adaptability, but not ethical responsibility for the changes he is bringing about. There is no forecast of what kind of society strategy we will get when we implement it. " Involvement has become such a keyword in current education management. Substance associations, all kinds of associations are asking about inclusion. It made me wonder whether our education meets the expectations of society and the Estonian people. Re-training, vocational education and training - all issues in the current labour market situation are likely to become increasingly acute. How do you explain why academics feel that there is an apparent involvement? Is it possible to do better in terms of inclusion, or is there never enough involvement, no matter what it does?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U171	Thank you. In the case of education strategy, I dare say, perhaps one must ask what particular expectation of inclusion is Tiiu Kuurmel. When we prepared this explanatory statement, I really didn't believe that I asked over a thousand engagement events. It's been done for three years. And those esteemed lecturers who have led these working groups, I do not know, since Marju Lauristin or Raul Eametsa, have been so broad that I very much doubt that they have not taken into account broad-based proposals. Now whether or not the proposals are only formally involved and essentially have not been taken into account. We do not have a final document yet; we have only reached the intermediate stage. The Committee on Culture discussed this. Understandably, there have been a lot of proposals again, and the various groups have the expectation that further changes could be made in connection with the recent experience of digital and distance learning. So the Committee on Culture is certainly not in a hurry to have this debate. I dare defend those who have made this strategy. I think they've been really nice people. If someone feels that his opinion has not arrived, I certainly call for further proposals. Now, about the level of social partners. In particular, with regard to the youth strategy, we see that the strategy will eventually be concentrated into such a slightly more general text; the text must be very concentrated. For example, if 40 very substantive proposals become a general sentence, people will not recognise their proposal. Maybe that's what this is about. Now the vision of lack or lack. I believe that the strategy needs to be reviewed once more, but rather it has been ambitious. As a minister, following the discussions of the Riigikogu, I have been a little concerned about the fact that, if we want to start implementing this strategy, are we prepared to rewrite the law in this form, because a number of proposals relating to the strategy means a cardinal amendment to the law. Perhaps when discussing these strategies, the Riigikogu could reflect once on whether it is actually prepared to abolish some laws. When I answered Mrs Signe Kivi, I already suggested that in the basic school and upper secondary school law, a number of provisions are now very precise and quite different from the strategy proposals. But yes, I don't believe in formal inclusion. Those people who have led the working groups and have been debating have done their job with their hearts.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U172	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U173	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. I look to the future and think about it, as you said, that distance learning has given us a very good experience. Could this not be the norm in society for children who, for example, are runny or sneeze such a small encouragement to stay at home? They can take part in the class via the video bridge. Given how infectious the current virus is and what might still be ahead of it, couldn't it be, how can we now say it exactly as natural? Thus, we would not lose time, and the parent should not worry that the child will be left behind in schoolwork, and the child can be at home. Could it not be that the sneezing or infectious child remains at home, and that is the norm in our society?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U174	Thank you. Excellent question! I know that there are several specialists in this area in the Riigikogu and you have had to understand, if I am not mistaken, this issue also with the Head of State. But connecting via a direct bridge reminds me of the discussions of the previous, perhaps the previous Riigikogu, probably the previous Riigikogu on the security of schools. Connecting via a direct bridge means that all other parents also have to agree to it. It must be so safe that those people who are not supposed to be watching your baby will not do it, because it is a minor child and not all adults are always well. So you have to be very careful about that. Now, the question is more about whether it could be, for example, as it is now, that the child is given home tasks digitally and that he or she is studying individually. I believe that there is a greater willingness to give more independent work and to read the experience of independent learning fully into the learning load. But yes, I think there might be a problem with the video bridge. Let's think for a moment, for example, about taking pictures and how these photos can be used and processed. For schools, this will in any case mean the implementation of comprehensive security measures. In the form that this proposal originally came as a draft, it was not in line with either the protection of personal data or other directives. So, yes, I imagine there might be a problem with the bridge. But digital individual home learning I believe it will be easier to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U175	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U176	Thank you. Good minister! You talked a lot about what distance learning has added and where it has been learned to use it positively. I'm sure I'll agree with that. My question is on the other side: what are the three most important bottlenecks that distance learning has highlighted, and what are the Ministry's proposals for eliminating these bottlenecks?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U177	Thank you. These conclusions will certainly come in the future, as the crisis is still ongoing. But as an intermediate step, I dare say that the role of educators came up immediately and quickly. Those schools where there were educators, a person who acted quickly, he had his own networks, he had connections, he was able to help quickly and himself to advise the school teachers, did the desired leap very, very quickly. Appreciating the educational technologist from both the schools themselves and the local government is perhaps one of these fundamental changes. In the past, their work was not more of a matter of attention. We've already talked about the teaching materials with the publishers. If we were able to take the next step and differentiate them more, we would make an even bigger leap than we were able to ensure two years ago that the educational resources were available to everyone. We're dreaming that the weight of the school bag will decrease and the interactivity will increase. This could be linked to the second bottleneck of learning resources being more differentiated, which of course also means additional resources. This is also an important aspect. And thirdly, you asked for three, there is a difference in guidance and support for schools. This crisis made it very clear that a large part, a clear majority of schools and schoolchildren can and value the autonomy granted to them. But a number of educational institutions have been called for and they want clear guidelines, they expect and hope that there will be someone somewhere who will take fundamental decisions. What we consider to be the greatest value of our education is that our teacher is an independent professional intellectual capable of self-appreciating and providing support. It may not be surprising, but it probably came out the most. However, this is not at all an issue of digital society, but such a broader issue of education.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U178	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U179	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! Would you point out three of the most important arguments as to why such a decision was made regarding the voluntary conduct of the final exams? What were the most important arguments from your point of view that you made such a decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U180	Thank you. If I may, I will refer my social partners. The main argument at the level of schoolteachers, or local government and school leaders, was that, in the present very difficult situation, they do not want to force anyone or create an inevitable situation where a parent cannot make a final decision. In a situation where a parent objectively feels that he or she is not willing to risk a child, or he or she does not want to be forced into a schoolhouse or to use public transport if he or she does not want to. Some schools may also have involved, for example, the need for a child to go to a dormitory or other circumstances. The number of reasons is not high, but this pressure, as was seen from the side of school leaders or local government, was one of the arguments put forward. However, the parent should be able to say in cooperation with the child that we will do so. There was another target group, such as upper secondary schools for adults, who said that they have objectively not been able to deepen the preparation of state examinations as much as they would like this spring. And on the students' side, you can simply point out that young people are sufficiently motivated when they know that they want to go on learning. The state must ensure this possibility, but there is no need to force it. It is interesting to follow letters from student governments; we also have these letters here in the Riigikogu. So the social partners have made their arguments very clear. In our ministry, we see that these arguments are few, but they are certainly sufficient to realise that this situation is special. So we're going to give it a choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U181	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U182	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The children of the current vintages, as well as the former and certainly future, are competing with their peers around the world. It is all the more important to have equal opportunities to promote their potential. Two months is a very short time to draw far-reaching conclusions. You said that some conclusions would be drawn when this period was over. But what you said was that 0.5% of students were left behind in distance learning or so-called teleworking, that's more or less the same figure as in regular school, right, if I'm not mistaken. You said that it was known that some schools shared computers with teachers, some of them also gave computers to children under the citizens' initiative, but the speed of internet access is very different. Can you now tell us what financial support is actually needed to study in school like this? Let's assume. I don't want to conjure the future, but let's imagine that this kind of need should arise again.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U183	First of all, yes, from this angle, I'm sorry! I haven't thought about it. Improvising. While we had the main Internet connection on the table during the first few weeks, very often it was simply because people had not chosen a package that would fit in with three children attending school and a parent working at home at the same time. This was generally a question of the choice of the package. In some cases, however, these were children, for example, socio-economically, for whom buying a computer or borrowing from school was perhaps not the best option. In such cases a solution was sought in cooperation with social workers. Some kids went to the library, some were found some other solutions, they were very, very individual. We are, of course, talking about very few cases. It was not the main issue of money, but rather the background system. If such a situation were to arise again, God would give that it would never occur again, then it would not always provide relief. Children with very serious disabilities must have been excluded the most because this activity, which takes place in schools, is specific. Several parents said they were doing their best at home, but they really missed what these professionals were doing at school. It cannot be replaced financially. That's just the experience. There were also mental health issues related to general anxiety in society. All this instability and anxiety have not gone away. After all, the last survey also showed that uncertainty about the future is growing very rapidly. Parents worry about their future, and anxiety is passed on to children. I understand what the questioner is asking, but it's hard to make that assessment. What we have looked at in the Ministry is, for example, educational materials. I was talking about differentiation. We are currently reviewing our European programmes and making digital learning tools, the digital environment, a high priority. HITSA has assessed a certain area of teacher training, the support of local government. As I have already answered the previous questioner, educators are valued; there is also a need to channel a certain resource there. But, yes, I can't appreciate financially, because obstacles came in a lot more out of individual cases than the general digital readiness of our schools is, however, very high, or, for example, from the philosophy of education, when basically no attention was paid to the digital side at some school. In such cases, money was not the main issue. In cooperation with HITSA and Innove and the Ministry of Education and Research, we are currently analysing the situation. But yes, as I said, the crisis continues and very many individual decisions still need to be made. I hope we can get the feedback analysis done during the summer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U184	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U185	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much for your thorough answers. I also think that such feedback and an overview of the situation will certainly come about after the situation has been removed. But there was information in the media and, in fact, it has been heard by the mouth of several teachers that a certain number of students had disappeared. I do not rule out that, under normal circumstances, a certain number of children have not disappeared. But weren't some children lost simply because if there are still three children in the family going to school more in some families, then it is not possible for everyone to go to e-school on time, because everything is happening at the same time and there are not enough computers? And the story of going to the library was that all the libraries were closed. It's good to be able to rent books from a distance. Public Internet sites and libraries were closed. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U186	Thank you. During the first two weeks, there was a great deal of such feedback. In this sense, much that there were dozens of times, of course, not hundreds of cases, where the parent or school itself turned and asked if they could give up performing such hours at a time. Of course, we immediately announced, through the Ministry and also in detail, that there would be no compulsion to adhere to the schedule if the teacher and the community saw that this was not wise. At first, this distance learning was interpreted very differently through digital solutions. Some teachers were determined that if they had an hour on Tuesday at 8:15, they would have to do it at 8:15. And if there really happened to be three or more children at school in the family, it was quite difficult for everyone to be behind the 8.15 computer at once. I, too, learned this experience several times when it was easy to choose between a mathematics class of one child or a class class class class of another child or something else. So, what do you choose at home? Unfortunately, I have to say that the lesson won, the class manager didn't get to class. But after two weeks, it changed. When there were even more attractive parents who reported to the schools, the usual schedule began to be abandoned very quickly and the hours were scattered throughout the day. According to more recent feedback, this is exactly how it was approached. For example, when one family or another was known to have a certain rhythm, it was based on it and the teachers began to coordinate with each other. In fact, I realized that some of the major schools started operating networks that were coordinated, when to do Zoom's class. There were a number of sensible solutions. For example, some students did not change their schedule, but another student who could not attend was worked separately. I don't know if the kid liked it or didn't like it, but he got a separate time to study. If statistics are taken into account, 0.65% of the apology, I did not specify to Urve Tiidu that it was not 0.5%, but 0.65% of the children, which are of considerable importance, because every child is extremely important, the average statistics are those when the child has disappeared in one or more subjects within a week. Among its 0.65% are a number of children, who maybe in general were quite good, but simply disappeared in some substances. We know how it happens. He's missing something, he doesn't understand, he has no support. It's not easy to learn five weeks if you don't have that support. There were teachers who quite quickly said that young people were very good and that in general they thought this distance learning would work, but if the time of departure came, this particular child would still be wanted to be seen in this particular subject. I was very bold to say to Liina that the teacher cannot be forced, but I will add to this nuance that the teachers have also said that if they have not seen this or the other child at all and the child has deliberately been excluded from the study and the social worker has not received any particular contact, they may force it. Otherwise, the course has not been completed, which means that the class has not been completed. Next year he may even go on, but then an individual curriculum is drawn up and must be studied according to it. So in that case, you can force me to do it, but I understand that the questioner didn't ask for it when it comes to a child who's missing. With regard to the rejection of feedback, those who needed, let's say, to stay out of the hours in real time are not included. Teachers in Estonia are still very reasonable, but they understand how many students attend the class, who may be in competition with siblings. But the issue of sharing computers is certainly one that parents have made very clear. There aren't that many at home.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U187	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U188	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Could you please explain this additional budget support for private childcare and private day-care centres? The question is that many municipalities exempted the parents of children in municipal early childhood education from the place fee at the start of the emergency period for at least one and a half months and, at the same time, the parents were also exempted from paying their share of the allowance in private day care centres and private day care centres. The municipality pays a very large part of this place fee in private day care and kindergarten anyway. Perhaps, in fact, there are 100% guarantees for refraining, or 95% or 90% of the place fee. And now, in turn, the state has to help to compensate. How do you look at it? Do you consider the local government's own contribution? The question is, of course, to support who needs to be supported, but it should be ensured that municipal and public money does not double. And maybe you'll explain how to support private interest schools, because they've asked for help too. If the child doesn't show up, the parent doesn't pay, but they have to keep their employees and pay the rent. How is this side arranged? I don't know if they've been helped by local governments, it's probably up to the local government. But how has the state planned to help here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U189	Thank you. That's 15 million. The overall model is such that EUR 80 is multiplied by three months and divided by two. Perhaps more precisely, EUR 40 is multiplied by three, or a total of EUR 120 per child. Applications can be submitted on 5/15. May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, The condition is that the application must be substantiated. A well-founded application means that you are missing some budgetary items due to the crisis, such as parent ownership or some kind of additional activities. This picture is so different, it's very hard to say. In a reasoned application, you must indicate your budget and all other things, such as the labour market measures you have received from the Unemployment Insurance Fund, maybe you will also receive some support from the local government. The justification must show that you still need help. If we look at a sports school, for example, there is a special crisis measure for coaches. You can ask for help from us, the Ministry of Education and Research if you have a huge budget gap despite coaching support and perhaps some additional support. Then it is justified to ask for support. We have set a cap here. The feedback from social partners, we have had a whole series of digital roundtables in the Ministry, is very different, because in total it affects 160,000 children. Some hobby schools have been completely closed, ownership forms are very different, some are very small entrepreneurs and the other is a larger institution. Therefore, we cannot now say who we exclude and who we do not. We can only say this on request. I understand that the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu has also made it very clear that your applications together must not exceed your budget. This crisis should not begin to feed anyone here. But our common goal is to keep these structural units private care, kindergartens, hobby schools. They're doing a great job, there's a lot of kids going there, and we want it all to be preserved. But, yeah, I guess that funding's gonna be application-based. And what the good questioner said is true, private kindergartens and childcare facilities were the most cautious to say exactly the common features through their representative organisation. This picture was clearer in the field of education. In the same way, you will look at whether you have received additional benefits, how you have a general situation and what resources have fallen away. In general, private interest schools have been closed for one and a half or two months, and maybe they will remain closed until the end of May. In the case of schools of private interest, account must also be taken of the fact that, to a very large extent, contracts have been concluded until the end of May, some of them have been concluded until June. This means that it is actually real that they will not open the institution in a big picture this academic year. Parents, too, may not want their children to take part in teaching during the last two weeks. That is why we put this measure in place until the end of May, knowing from feedback from social partners, that even when we talk about 18 May or 15 May, when it is possible to open a stage of interest schools, there are a considerable number of parents who say that they do not want to bring the child to school for the next half-month. So that is why this measure is foreseen until the end of May.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U190	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U191	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, You've been answering here for quite a while, and I guess you could use a little pep talk. I am asking you a question on such a small side-by-side issue, or not on a side-by-side issue, but on such an exhilarating subject. In fact, before you just said that schools have asked parents for feedback, and many have learned how children have learned about studying at home. But what I'm asking is, has it been studied how children have had the stories of movement, the joy of movement in their home environments? As minister at the Ministry of Education and Science, do you have a picture of how this movement is now? Could it be that after that, there is quite a lot of helping to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U192	Thank you. Excellent question! I have always been concerned about what people and ophthalmologists think about distance learning from the digital tools that are much praised for it, but also much criticised for it. At least from the example of my family, I can tell you that my children have not spent their whole lives in front of a computer as they have been in the last few months. I'm a pretty bad parent, and I have to tell you, I had some big digital intellectuals at home. Such regular headaches, forced positions, all that office people know about, I've never complained about in my 10-year-olds and 12-year-olds. There is no generalized feedback, but one has to consider how many hours especially for older class students actually sit in front of a real-time computer and solve tasks. We try to help teachers as much as possible. And when we look at these ever-expanding possibilities just in Opiq's environment as well as in other shared environments, we see that there are a lot of different digital solutions, which means that the student can't even pick up the book and go outside for a second, but sits in front of the computer. So I'm afraid that feedback can be rather worrying.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U193	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. It is now possible to open negotiations. Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U194	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Since another inquiry on the same subject will follow immediately and we can continue to ask, I will be very brief. Our teachers, students, and parents have been very good, and during this difficult time, chestnuts have been brought out of the fire. I fully agree with the Minister who stressed that the success of our education system is based on the independence of our educational institutions. But right now, you can see that in difficult times, frames are necessary. People need information, a clear message, even to say that there is no answer yet. This is sometimes lacking. It's been painful to hear when you're not happy with the Minister or the Ministry. We better be able to agree on the subject of education in this difficult situation. Very much of this current discussion and education issues in general have focused on the 9th and 12th grade exams in recent months. It should not be forgotten that the exams evaluate the results of the three-year work, the whole degree of school, and these two months actually make up a short period of time. That is why our discussion today will certainly not be the last one, but we will have to deal with these same issues, whether our education system in its entirety will meet the needs of our society and people and whether it will meet the needs of our changing economy, which we will definitely come back in the coming months. In the meantime, I would like the Minister and the Ministry to have the strength to give clear and single messages. There is certainly a need for more and more clarification of the conditions of the final exams, the framework that was confirmed today. The members of the Committee on Culture had questions, we discussed whether we understood the same thing. If the members of the Committee on Culture do not understand we all represent Estonian society here, then obviously parents and students also need a lot of additional information. So I want the strength of all those involved in this process. And, above all, I would like to be successful for the 3556 teachers who work in our schools and are over 60 years old, thus belonging to the high-risk group, and thank them very much!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U195	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U196	This is the remote control that prompted me to come with the Minister's answers. I want to make two remarks. The first remark relates to the fact that the Minister pointed out that many private interest schools are going to graduate in May, and this is not the case. It is very reasonable to consider that some of them have so far worked until mid-June and have signed lease agreements. This actually means that each case has to be viewed personally, individually, on the basis of the request. But what may have surprised me a little, despite the fact that distance learning has given us a unique experience, and I think that every year in the future there could also be a certain amount of distance training so that we could develop this system further, it was actually what Katri Raik said that, given the many months that were actually learned for the final exams at the gymnasium, two months of distance training already makes us tender and raises questions about whether we can handle the exams. I think that students who fail to pass state examinations this year may have a much more complex and difficult time making them in the coming years. I therefore think that perhaps this decision has been made too lightly and prematurely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U197	Thank you very much. There is no further desire to participate in the negotiations. Would the addressee of the inquiry be willing to take the floor? No, I don't. Shakes my head. In that case, the inquiry is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U198	Now let's go to the next question. This is the request for an account of the emergency educational arrangements submitted on 20 April 2020 by Riigikogu members Heidy Purga, Andres Suti, Ants Laaneots, Erkki Keldo, Urve Tiidus, Madis Milling, Urmas Kruuse, Jüri Jaanson, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, Liina Kersna, Annely Akkermanni, Maris Lauri, Mart Võrvala, Vilja Toomasti, Signe Riisalo and Hele Everaus. Heidy Purga to waitress, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U199	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, A number of reform parties submitted a written inquiry to the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps, on 20 April. I can say in the Remark procedure that we went somewhat faster than the Social Democrats. However, looking aside from and participating in today's conversation, it has become clear that discussing the two questions one day has been quite purposeful and a good decision. By the time we made our own inquiry, the Ministry had sent a lot of very confusing signals to the public. In this questioning of the Reform Party Group, we have highlighted the timeline for misleading messages from the Ministry. Many issues have been answered today, and some questions may not be so relevant, but have been replaced by new ones. What were our questions? They were next. Firstly, why will distance learning be completed on 15 May rather than at the end of the academic year? Secondly, what is the purpose of the partial opening of schools? Thirdly, how is the safety of teachers, many of whom are at risk, when contact lessons start in schools on 15 May, and why are there no necessary training, development discussions and consultations through the video bridge? Fourthly, when will schools be informed of official decisions to open schools, pass state examinations and pass comprehensive school finals, and how long will the schools be given to reorganize their work? Fifth, if parents have lost their jobs during an emergency and have difficulties in paying tuition fees, how can this be resolved? Sixthly, the graduation ceremonies will be cancelled this year, while the Minister of Culture expresses the hope that the cultural events of the summer will take place. Please explain how the graduation ceremonies differ from the summer concerts in view of the risk to human health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U200	Thank you. Minister, please, the chair is yours!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U201	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! I'm sure we've already talked about some of the issues in the last question, but according to the procedure, I'm still going over all the questions. The first question was about completing distance learning on 15 May. We have been very clear on the basic school and upper secondary school law that there are 175 days of study in the academic year and that summer holidays start on 10 June. The academic year ends on 31 August and there is no digital or any other way of teaching during the summer break. However, the possibility has been given to switch from distance learning to contact training if the school, together with the holder and parents, considers it necessary and possible for health and safety purposes. That's the transitional period I touched on in the previous question. Its need has been highlighted by both schools and educational professionals who deal with different target groups. So this possibility of contact training, of course, in compliance with all the rules, is still needed. I have already mentioned it, but I will say again that schools are in very different situations. There are small schools or certain areas where it has already been said that they certainly want to continue with the usual teaching as much as possible due to special circumstances. But there are also those who say that the usual number of students will certainly not come to school this spring. The second question was why we envisaged the partial opening of schools. The first large number of students are, of course, seniors who, even by law, have the right to take a test and participate in consultations. There are undoubtedly many seniors who are fit to carry it out at a distance using digital means, but it must be said that there are also students who are not in a position to do so. Feedback from seniors has been such that they certainly want to implement this right whenever possible and get a consultation. The second number is made up of middle school graduates who are preparing to go to higher secondary schools with closer competitions in Tallinn, Tartu and rural areas. The need for additional support in Estonian language and mathematics has been drawn out for them, and they have also expressed their need for such support. We also have those students who are not eligible for distance learning and who therefore need contact training, and those who are already seeing with school managers and schools that because of health and taking into account all safety rules, contact training may be the only one that has been excluded. Number three, teachers. You asked how contact training is possible in a risk group. This is also what schools have asked for individually. The first and main answer is that, of course, the final decision is made in cooperation with the keeper, the school, the specific teacher and, of course, the parent. All aspects relating to safety, health and risk groups must be taken into account. For example, if you look at the recommendations of the Scientific Council, the Scientific Council has even proposed that the involvement of risk groups should be avoided in the event of contact training. The feedback from schools has been rather such that they would like to provide safety tools and leave it to the teacher to decide. It is also possible to reorganize studies. But who do you put in contact training? I wouldn't bring out any special subjects here, but there has already been feedback from schools that they feel that some teachers may have had a more modest workload during the distance learning period. Perhaps for the more complicated students who are "lost" and who are not special needs, but who have simply taken advantage of the situation that social control has been less, the burden could be placed on those teachers who have so far had less burden during distance training. And those who are not at risk of age should be chosen. Now, about individual feedback from teachers. It's been very individual. Some schools have made it very clear that they want to have a development interview this time in a longer, more thorough way, with parents and in real contact. Others have said that it is not a problem to do so at a distance if digital means are available; they do so online. I guess it's gonna be after 15 May, starting on 18 May, Monday, for schools to decide. Now, most of the teaching in normal form is not going to be restored if we talk about more than 100,000 children in this academic year. The obligation to open school has not been imposed and it certainly does not make sense in this academic year. You're asking about opening schools and final exams. On 20 April, the Riigikogu adopted an amendment to the law, which gave the Government of the Republic the power to decide on the passing of the exams for that year, and for the following year this competence was also granted for international examinations and research. The corresponding decree of the Government of the Republic has now passed the round of coordination, and today the Government of the Republic adopted this decree after the President was signed. It introduced three fundamental differences. The first is that completing the final exam in the ninth grade is not a graduation condition, which means that the final exams do not have to be passed and comprehensive school is completed on the basis of annual grades. Secondly, numerical evaluation is not mandatory this year, results must not be converted, may remain 'considered' or 'not accounted for'. And on the basis of feedback from schools, which is not complete, 100%, but rather presented on the basis of referrals, it can be said that very many teachers do not want to put out grades in the second half of the year, but rather put out annual scores. Exams will be held for seniors on 29 May and 1-3. June in Estonian and Estonian as a second language and June 5 in mathematics. Preparations have been made for the most part, work contracts with observers are ongoing, exams have been prepared. However, the Government of the Republic's decree removes the obligation to pass the exam as a condition of termination. But we expect most young people to take the exam, and we count on the number of all young people. Fifthly, you have a question of losing your job in an emergency. We do not regulate this situation nationally, of course. All these are contractual relationships and the parties to the agreement must negotiate this matter themselves in the event of default. However, in order to alleviate this situation, 15 million have been given, which you have dealt with in the Riigikogu within the framework of the additional budget. In this respect, it is 5.15. to make reasoned requests. For one child, EUR 120 is foreseen, which we have analysed with social partners, should be of considerable support to this area, let us say. Speaking of graduations and other big events, I'm gonna cut off an act and a party first. Usually, the celebration to young people also means this evening's gathering. Now, our message to schools and to all young people has been this: please consider that this year such regular graduations are not recommended for both graduates and those who are sub-classes, class excursions, major gatherings. We do not want the spread of the virus to expand, and therefore we are all trying to understand that even when the emergency situation ends, this sensible behaviour is also a potential threat to all major social events. Unfortunately, there are a number of countries where a very sharp turn to the most common form of events, including major events, was not the most sensible step and a second wave came. We certainly want to avoid this in Estonia. We have all worked very hard to reach a positive moment like this so that we can start talking more about getting out. Therefore, we should postpone the big parties, the big events in May and June, but this also concerns bigger excursions, overnight excursions, because if we look at the moments of the outbreak in this crisis too, the bigger outbreaks have all been, say, such very social parties. However, we do understand that it was a festive event where the schools themselves would find a reasonable solution to the testimony. But the urgent proposal of the Scientific Council, which we could all share in our social media, is that the kinship please wait at home. We certainly don't want to limit our age to who can come to the ceremony, who doesn't. We have discussed very much with schools and keepers that the event could remain a festive event for graduates and school management. It is certainly possible to broadcast it live digitally, for example. Then the whole kinship, which certainly has people of different ages and different health levels, should not be left out of it, but rather at home. This is a very sensible solution for everyone, because there are not only older people at risk but also people with certain health and other risks. It is not possible for a school to assess who is at risk and for whom it is not. As a result, school feedback has been such that formal testimony can still take place, but that major social celebrations for young people, rather than young people, ask for it, can be postponed to the other half of the summer. I believe that our internal security experts, too, are extremely happy with the decision that these parties are scattered rather than taking place one weekend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U202	Thank you. Liina Kersna, questions please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U203	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I was delighted to learn that the activities could be held at school. In fact, we've read in black on white that the shows are banned this year. It is really very nice that this is not the case. But I wanted to ask you about another thing. I'm reading a government press release from today's e-session. The Regulation provides that, as a general rule, 2019/20. there will be no compulsory exams in the academic year when comprehensive school and upper secondary school are completed. I'm reading it out that if a graduate wants to take an exam, he can do it like a high school graduate, it's just voluntary. But when I look at the homepage and social media of the Ministry of Education and Research, there's a poster that says no basic school finals. Please repeat, can those graduates who want to take the exams do so or will they not pass the exams? I'm sorry I'm out of time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U204	Thank you. All press releases by the Ministry of Education and Research, which at any rate concern the Minister of Education, I try to be familiar with them. I'm sorry I wasn't familiar with the Government of the Republic's message, and there's been this vibe again. The Ministry of Education and Research, I repeat over this, has made it very clear that there will be no examination at the end of comprehensive school this year and only this year. Not only do they happen, they are not organised. Gymnasium finals are taking place, we're organizing them. Preparations have already been made and the dates are 29 May and 1 January3. June 1 and 5th. In addition, for all those who have spoken here today, we will organise international language examinations, with English and German taking place in June, French and Russian in August. They are carried out in agreement with the organising countries and, in the case of Cambridge, with the organisation of the test, and should address the concerns of young people who certainly want to take the third state examination, as the basic school and upper secondary school law clearly states that international examinations are equivalent to the state examination. Therefore, I hope that this is how we will resolve this issue. I believe that the answer was exhaustive!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U205	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U206	Dear Deputy Speaker! Minister, thank you very much. My question actually concerns a more distant future, especially when we think about the plan to get out of the crisis in the longer term. The education sector has been in a very new situation in times of emergency. When reacting quickly, decisions and reforms have been made, and all of this will have some effect, which will probably only begin to appear at the beginning of the new academic year. My question is as follows. Have you also considered in the Ministry of Education and Research what this aftereffect could be more precisely and how you try to solve these problems if the feedback is so obvious?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U207	Thank you. I'll try to guess, but then I'll try to answer on the one hand and on the other. I'll start with a little more negative Estonian. If you look at this worrying side, the feedback from schools in the first weeks, or rather in the weeks that followed them, maybe four to five-six weeks, have been such that it is quite bold to bring out those target groups who, in their opinion, may not have had as much study load or volume as they would normally have had. Either this form of study is not suitable for them or some other obstacles have arisen, but in any case there has been a lack of contact training. Here we can certainly see as one solution that, between 15 May and 10 June, there is a period in which, for example, an individual curriculum can be continued, because perhaps this young person will only have a lagover in certain subjects. Perhaps a classical summer job could be done, saying that these and these things need to be examined together, some kind of support structure will be found and shortcomings can be learned or read more. Maybe you can bring out some things in cooperation with your parent. But it is clear that at the beginning of the next academic year, a certain adjustment must be carried out retroactively. Most schools say that they are counting on perhaps giving a little more time in the period of residence or revisit next year to see how much lessons have been learned. There has also been feedback from schools that it is very likely that some children will need to be placed on a temporary basis to study according to an individual curriculum in some subjects. On the side of the track-finder, it has also been said that the topic of mental health is very, very important. There's anxiety. Learning from distance by being alone in front of a computer is very frustrating for certain young people and creates such a sense of isolation. In addition to this, there is general social pressure, as well. So, on the negative side, there are certainly students who need support, both according to the Pathfinder and civil society, in this case, according to the Chief Affairs and others. Now on the positive side. We have already said today that something has certainly changed, such as the ability of teachers to use digital platforms, the sharing of best practices. Our great dream of teachers is becoming more and more seductive. Inevitably, there is a situation where teachers also communicate more digitally. This is certainly very good and perhaps highlighted certain bottlenecks. We have seen, for example, from the digital competence test that there is a high degree of variation between schools, and we need to deal with this separately. The popularity of online seminars could also be highlighted as positive. After all, we have repeatedly discussed continuing training for teachers in this Chamber in order to strengthen it and add resources. The very high popularity of web-seminars was really hundreds to thousands of viewers indicating that this form could be something that we can use much more. It is more concentrated and gives the teacher the opportunity to look up later at a suitable time. This is also one thing that we have proposed and thought through together as a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U208	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U209	Good minister! I'll come back to the subject of teaching. You mentioned earlier that the e-school bag is the place where our school books and other educational materials are available electronically. Since 2007, the Minister's decrees are, on a case-by-case basis, a minister, with which the Boards of Subjects disappeared in this way and the issue of textbooks and educational material was lost in the control of the Council. A few weeks ago, the Ministry of Education and Research ordered the recall of an English textbook which dealt with Crimea as part of Russia. Is it an alarming signal that our educational materials need more detailed control before they go to print? How are you satisfied with the situation of the educational materials? There are also examples of this unfortunate case involving Russia and Crimea. For example, there are many Estonian language textbooks in Russian-speaking schools that are full of unauthorized grammar errors, and there are certainly more examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U210	Thank you. First of all, I would like to make it clear that we have the teaching resources mostly on Opiq's platform. The e-school bag brings together such general material and it is rather possible to put the material up there, but Opiq contains a set of educational tools corresponding to the national curriculum. Opiq started on the basis of Avita, but now that the state has come up with its own procurement, it has also been joined by the big players of Koolbri, and there will be more publishers in a row when we talk about digital learning property. This question is, of course, broader. As a mere remark, I would add that I had the honour of being a representative of the opposition in 2007 and that I was no longer a minister, but that is why. This does not matter, because continuity is still in responsibility. The subject of learning equipment control is important all the time. What is the reason why in the early years of Estonia's real republic, Estonia gave up state educational resources and moved to a market-based one, in which case each author can issue a textbook himself? It is true that this must be in line with the curriculum, and there is a Commission that evaluates quality, whether the textbook is in line with the curriculum. The reason for this was, on the one hand, market economy logic, but, on the other hand, there was also a very clear educational demand so that there would not only be one choice but more choices. It has hot supporters and very hot critics. Hot supporters are those who say that offering different learning treatments and different educational philosophies as solutions to the same thing is a very sensible way to offer innovative solutions, because a considerable amount of taxpayers' money goes to learning property, and given the individuality of teachers, choice is good. Others, who are very critical, say that teachers would like to be more confident that if they take this textbook, the solutions there are correct and that this will give the child a good result both in their lives and in the meantime on the state exams. I'm about to get to the issue of quality, but of course I do not think that the abundance of choices has been bad. The textbook market has still been competitive, there has not been such a single monopoly. This kind of a bit of a sud or pressure situation has been rather positive. Now for quality. We've had very strict connections, I remember them before 2007. The reason why the Committee on Culture, I remember the initiation of this draft, there was Igor Gräzin, the draft itself came from this very hall, and finally supported the draft quite fiercely, was the criticism and very clear criticism of the fact that a limited number of materials passed through the filter. There were social social networking sites, whose textbooks always got very good points, and then there were some who maybe didn't have this social networking. Corruption was not proven, but let's say relationships were very important. If I am not mistaken, I think it was debated here in the Riigikogu for almost six months, and in the end such a decision came. Was it right or wrong? I believe that the responsibility of the publisher should be stronger with regard to such errors now is the question of what is the problem, right? Yeah, you can print it, yeah, you're gonna have to put it up, but if this material doesn't fit the curriculum, or if there's real mistakes in the text, you're not gonna put it in one of the additional pages with print corrections, and you're not gonna say I'm gonna do better printing next year, but you're really gonna call the books back. In this respect, this case was a precedent. If we can establish that the publisher actually takes the risk that if he does not cooperate with subject associations, subject specialists or, for example, the best academic staff in Estonia, to ensure that the textbook complies with the established standards, then he must reprint the textbook or take it out of circulation, I believe it will discipline. The associations of subjects must certainly be strengthened so that they actually work with this educational material. Today he is, let's say, such an intermediate thing between the publishers and the Ministry of Education and Science. It is not a good decision to be taken only at the level of the national Commission. If we want more learning tools, especially digital learning tools, to be differentiated, from special needs and to have more choice, then such a standardised learning tool is not good. And the feedback from publishers, both the big respected and the small specialised publishers, for example, in mathematics has been such that do not shut this market down. But perhaps, at the level of the Committee on Culture, we should look together at whether we should apply more robust sanctions, that if you make a mistake, I do not know, there is an anti-state charge, or there is a very clear contradiction with the curriculum, then you risk having to take back all this material. I think it'll discipline you very much. Neither is the use of certain vulgar vocabulary, as we have seen in some examples. And I assure you that this experience of digital learning or home-based learning has also resulted in parents maybe for the first time being so familiar with their children's educational resources. I can assure you that there have not been many appeals, but there have been. We have all forwarded them to publishers together with explanations, and in two cases the publisher himself has indeed reacted very clearly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U211	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U212	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The voluntary principle that concerns the exams, I think, is one big mistake. This is because our data in previous years are not comparable to that in the sense that the number of examiners may be smaller this year, because they are only volunteers. We would have had a very good opportunity to assess whether distance learning had an impact on learning outcomes on the basis of the exams. Maybe I'm wrong, but it seems to me that this data comes with a big mistake in terms of comparability. But one thing I noticed, what you said about volunteering exams and the possibility of new contact training, was that parents should be given the opportunity to let the child not come to school when they fear because of the infection. But now it may be that children we would like to see in school as part of contact training may not come to school at all. It's like they're gonna get hit twice. And the other thing is that I think the mayor of Tallinn, Mikhail Kõlvart, said that mass contact training should be forgotten. There may be one individual lesson for one, which means that teachers' ability to deal with children is very low physically. How are these things working together?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U213	Thank you. First of all, the comparability of data. Thank you for further developing this subject. The very first answer is that, of course, they are comparable, because those who prepare the state exams are the same specialists and teachers who do it. These exams are already ready, and we've counted on the entire cohort. Comparable questions could arise when we start to make curves about how many did the test on the 0 points, on the 1 point, etc. But I have to say that in educational policy decisions we have never made any decisions on these data. We have comparability in the sense that the content of the examination, the organisation of the examination and the quality standard of universities that we have to follow in the case of state examinations in connection with admission to universities must be guaranteed at a certain level. And I assure you, this year it will be. These exams were actually ready, quite honestly, even before this pandemic broke out, so they are certainly of the same quality. As regards examinations, there has been a question of evaluation every year, which is one of the main issues in the spring. I remember last year the case of Miina Härma was on the agenda, and there has been something else in previous years. There have always been questions as to whether the exams are comparable in terms of task placement. For example, how is the eighth task of the mathematics exam performed this time, and is it as difficult or as easy as it was last time? There have also been years when we have calculated a certain percentage that, for example, mathematics examination issues were a percentage more complicated this year, and universities have taken this into account. It is very difficult to predict how many real parents say that their children do not take exams. In particular, the main target group that made this joint call consisted of upper secondary schools for adults. We have already informed them that exams can be taken both in the spring and in the autumn. However, I believe that most of the exams are to be taken, all the more so since universities, especially large universities, have said that they take these exams into account. For students who want to go abroad at one point or another, the results of the state exams are also necessary, because then they will not have to take entrance exams in another country, they will be entrusted with the examination points of the sending country, especially in the case of Estonia. That's why I believe most of us still have to take the exams. But yes, that kind of feedback came from there. Now the question of the pre-examination period and whether or not there is contact training. This address by the mayor of Tallinn has been very much explained in the Estonian media. Since I have spoken to him personally on this subject on several occasions, I can say that he spoke exactly the same story that the Ministry of Education and Research has been saying all along: on 15 May, a more individual education begins in schools and must be looked at by the target groups. In the end, the school leaders had this question, whether or not there would be school coming or not? This question was answered by the mayor so that all students would not normally attend school after 15 May at the same time. That's what I can assure you. Not all of them will sit at the same time on May 18th. In this respect, a certain transitional period is in any case left. Is contact education excluded in Tallinn? No, I've checked that one too, just in case. If the school or teacher needs contact with the child, they will meet. Is there some kind of target group that's somehow double? Yeah, that's the fear that schools have. This fear is that there are very few children, but there are still few, to whom parents write very generously for reasons of absence at home. These parents can now just as generously say that this transition period, during which their children can be helped individually, is not necessary if the child still says that he or she does not want to go. Social control may not be that good. But we are talking about very few families. These are the families for which social workers and local authorities have long known that there are problems. According to this, no standards can be established in education, we are talking about individual cases, very troubled families. But, yeah, maybe it's a big freedom. But the other way around, good questioner, we understand that a parent has the right to make a final decision about the education of his child. This is our constitutional right and we will not change that in a crisis situation. If a parent senses danger and objectively, for example because of a child's asthma or something else, does not agree that a child is going to school, so is that. We must understand this and we cannot punish it in an emergency. The parent retains this right, and we must understand it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U214	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U215	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I hope you're okay if I give you a short creative assignment. It doesn't take much fantasy to say that this three-month period is an inspiration for a lot of research. Could you give me one topic for a master's thesis or a doctoral thesis, like this on the run? What could it be?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U216	A new educational paradigm before and after the crisis, I guess it'll come up with something like that. Together with some very innovative school leaders, with whom I have occasionally had a very exciting phone conversation, our conversations often go very long, we have put it this way: 'Before and after the experience of compulsory digital learning'. It is believed that something fundamental has changed. There are even school leaders who have said that they are going to re-analyze their spatial plans so that each day there would be one class group of home schooling and this by more room for breathing at school. A few years ago, all this discovery and outdoor training was novel, then the "School inviting to move" came along, some fundamental changes were brought about by the Youth School programme, and some things have come from private schools as well. Surely there will also be some fundamental changes in this current experience, such as in connection with networking and educational materials. For me, as Minister of Education, there has been an extremely positive experience of what I have already said here today, that if, two years ago, on the basis of very many deliberate decisions, we have announced public procurement there, the taxpayer has set up EUR 2.5 million to create such a common, free core school textbook platform available to all, which is now available in Opiq's form, the risk analysis carried out by the Ministry of Education and Research was quite 50%: 50%. In other words, those countries that had made such a digital, universally accessible so-called double textbook platform, there are outspokens of digitality, differentiation opportunities, school bags remain easier, everything else. There were quite a number of arguments against it. And because of the experience we have had over these months, it has to be said that very many have only just now discovered it and the feedback has been constructive. If there are proposals, it would be more about what will be developed there. So, yes, it is definitely a paradigm shift.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U217	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U218	Thank you, President of the sitting. Minister, thank you very much. I'm gonna check to see if I've got this right. Has the Ministry of Education and Research given schools autonomy? I mean, if the school, for example, sees that certain students have failed in their distance studies, then he has the right to decide if he wants to, that he invites these children to the school so that the teacher can help them. What are the conditions for all this to happen? What are the rules, how is all this going to happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U219	Thank you. Yeah, you got it right. It's a teacher, a schoolkeeper and, of course, a schoolmaster. These target groups have been mapped over these weeks, we've been trying to be partners. For example, primary school teachers say that they are ready to come as soon as possible and certainly would like it, they are ready. They also offered to meet by tens. They'd split up their own class. And it's not like some people say do it at home, and others work double. It's meant to work in groups, others may be reading some kind of book that day. There are very different solutions, including regions. One or the other place has said that they would definitely call the whole school because it is a small school and very few contacts. But there's no obligation. So, what was the other question? Now, if you take it as if, in addition to that, you have the decision whether or not this is happening... [[A voice from the hall.]] Sorry, yes, thank you, the terms! With regard to the conditions, in the Committee on Social Affairs, you have an emergency procedure, a dangerous infectious disease and what was the third one? there was another amendment to the law. If, before the end of the emergency situation, i.e. before the beginning of May 17th, this will be approved here in the Riigikogu, we can jointly end the emergency situation. And if, following the termination of the emergency situation, the Health Board or, in certain cases, because of the emergency, the Government of the Republic is able to agree on some rules, then our approach is now such that very many of them are agreed with the school and its keeper. But the 2+2 rule in terms of keeping distance, for example, we're currently in the exam order. The tables must be set in such a way that children do not disturb each other, there is sufficient distance between the tables and the observers are far enough away. We're based on it. However, we have foreseen on 15 May that, in certain cases, it may be necessary, for example, to create a group of students of up to ten and to keep as much distance as possible. The proposal for such groups of tens has rather come from hobbies. Also in certain sports sectors, the 2+2 rule is not possible, and we do not want to exclude their actions in any way. So we usually follow the 2+2 rule, but in some cases we allow up to ten groups to be formed. That's what we came up with in the initial communication, and it's come up, yeah, rather bottom-up. As a minister, I very much support that if there is a sensible solution and a school or a hobby school needs it, that would be the case. Now for the additional measures. We've mapped out personal protective equipment with the local authorities. In the case of a state examination, they shall be guaranteed by the State, otherwise they shall be guaranteed in cooperation with the schoolmaster. But is wearing masks at school, for example, compulsory? Absolutely not. It is very cognitive and it can be a suggestion, for example, some teachers may very much need it and feel that they want it, especially for certain groups at risk. They may want the student to wear a mask, or they may be very distant. We're trying to ensure that. With regard to the availability of funds, it is clear today that procurement has succeeded, sufficient resources have come in to ensure this. With regard to disinfectants, schools also have a duty to ensure that they are available.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U220	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U221	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Madam Secretary! I would come to the smaller ones, to the smallest of them, to primary school, first class and, in fact, to early education, to those who are getting ready to go to school. These children learn very quickly and acquire much, and it may now happen that there is a lag in different places and that this lag may not be covered at all by the end of this academic year. What are we going to do about what will happen in the autumn? And I'll add that learning actually takes place through communication. Communication and communication with teachers between students are essential in primary classes. What are your thoughts on this? Do you see any particular problems there?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U222	First of all, in relation to the first classes, teachers have been rather positive, because they say that the goals of the curriculum must be achieved by the end of the third grade, that is, by the end of this first block, the end of primary school. As you quite rightly said, it is actually only a short period, children are learning very quickly. But such an adjustment period in the autumn will definitely come. There are teachers who said that they would like to see certain students, but not all, just certain students, for example, in the first classes. And the interesting thing is, which I was referring to earlier, is that I do not want to say that it is general, that a number of teachers have said that they would like to see some students precisely because the child's answers appear to be exactly as if the parent had helped him very strongly. Teachers want to see if the child himself has understood what he has learned. There have been many digital individual conversations for this purpose. I know my kid's had Zoom lessons, too, where the teacher wants to talk to the child individually. The elder, of course, could be by the side. It looks like such a nice social conversation, but as a parent, you can actually see that the teacher actually controls the understanding of certain things or the mastery of certain subjects. Is there a failure? Yes, for example, logo beets have pointed out that certain children have had insufficient speech development. The reason for all this speech failure is how much we read and how many children we develop, especially when there are several children in the family. Perhaps the attention in the family has been transferred to children already attending school. I have to admit, when I think about the kids at home, I think that's more like it, yes. That could be one reason. But again, we have a Pathfinder saying that the crisis has been short enough, and they believe they can provide support to these children either now after 15 May or, when we talk about logoped support, some of the inpatient treatment has been possible since the beginning of May. In some very complex cases, this support has also been provided digitally, as far as possible. As far as preschool education is concerned, their activities have usually stopped. Preschools in this form do not really continue to work. But the number of children who attend preschool school or in the last group of kindergartens is still very marginal. They'd rather be home. But once again, fortunately, this period has been very short and fantastic digital learning materials have been developed for early childhood education as well. Very many kindergartens regularly distribute teaching tasks such as e-school or e-studio. However, yes, it must be acknowledged that since their resolution is not an obligation but rather an aid, they are not regularly worked on. If, for example, we look at the ELIIS environment, we can see that it is not regularly logged in. So I'm sure that's the period these kids need.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U223	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U224	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. A few weeks ago, a decision was made here under the leadership of coalition parties, which should have resulted in migrant workers leaving agriculture by the middle of the summer. I think the Minister for Rural Affairs came up last week with the 'great' idea that the missing workforce could be replaced by students. Reading these statements, I understand that this is not just about summer chess work or volunteer work, but it is still about September and school time, so that students and teachers can adapt to the situation and students start going into the field. To be honest, it's a bit of a nightmare, because it's been a difficult spring for us anyway. Students have been in distance learning. There are those who have done well, and those who maybe not so well. What is your position as minister, and what is the position of the Ministry of Education and Research in order to start sending students to the field during their studies?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U225	Thank you. I have already answered that and I will say again that the work of young people is learning. We have taken these steps not only in the case of school pupils, but also in the case of students, so that everyone can still devote themselves to teaching. More broadly speaking, of course, this whole debate around how students can work more during extracurricular periods, whether during school holidays or in terms of work experience at all, is an important topic for all of us. In several successive governments and various committees, even joint sessions have been held here to ensure that regulations that protect these children, but which are extremely complicated for businesses, may be too complicated for young people to be employed, which are clearly more restrictive than the directives to be jointly reviewed. After all, we know the interest of young people, for example, in acting as small entrepreneurs or in getting some other work experience, and this is also a very active topic on social media. As you have already said in half of your question, for example, a chess super-popular job opportunity, which works in many ways in cooperation with entrepreneurs and local authorities. In five to seven minutes, all groups will be filled. Finding more people who organize chess or work camps is always a very big piece of art. This summer will certainly be particularly difficult because, as a result of the crisis, we are also experiencing unprecedented unemployment. How do you even bring young people into this competition? These issues are certainly topical, but sending young people into the field in a coercive manner during their studies is probably not something that I or the Ministry can support more broadly. 175 days of study must be provided for young people for their studies.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U226	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U227	Thank you. Good minister! It is very good to hear that the clock is still happening to us, not backwards, that no one is sent to create or develop a collective farm. Each crisis is a unique opportunity to learn. And my question is in this key: what this crisis has taught us about what could be changed in the preparation of teachers and in continuing training.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U228	Thank you. For this remark, I did not notice the colhosinostalgia in any of the statements, either in the Minister of Agriculture's own or in society at large. It was really discussed on social media. There was a proposal for work experience, and I believe that we are certainly in agreement here within certain limits. Now from the experience of teachers. In terms of content, the experience of continuing teacher training has perhaps been one that HITSA has done a great deal during the crisis, and also in Innove, say, educators and such general experience, for example, the preparation of teaching materials or the organisation of certain online seminars, how the teacher himself can perhaps explain the use of platforms. I have to say that teachers are very quick learners, and I believe that as of the end of May, most teachers have had this experience of online seminars. Now, about the formal education of teachers or, more specifically, about what universities do. I guess, in cooperation with universities, we're always supplementing it, and there's a lot of expectations that teachers are getting more and more. But should the so-called production of educational material, which has been proposed, be a compulsory part of training? Yes, it is necessary to understand the teaching material or, to a certain extent, to produce it, but I would not put too much emphasis on it, because there is already enough in the teacher's preparation to wish with all my heart that the teacher may have some time to prepare his own subject. We certainly do not want to overstate the fact that the teacher is first and foremost a teacher of the subject at school, but as an intellectual of respect, he still gets in the classroom when he masteres the subject he teaches. I'd like to give it a little time. As I said before, the use of online seminars has been incredibly popular among teachers. This can be supported in cooperation with universities. And perhaps the teacher's further training should be understood in general terms, I think it is necessary. Perhaps it should be considered that the teacher's continuing education is going to be more in partnership with universities so that individual communication does not disappear, but that it may only form one part of this training, and the rest can really be distributed as he wants. I believe that we can certainly come up with some very nice solutions together with the universities.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U229	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U230	Thank you. Dear Minister, I'll come back to the subject of the awakening. I very much hope that you will agree with me that public health and, in fact, the health of each individual school pupil and the development of their physical capacity in education are as important as the development of skills related to other subjects. The key to this is, of course, mobility and healthy lifestyles. I'm just asking if, in the current crisis situation, schools have maintained virtual mobility classes. Is it possible for the Ministry of Education and Research to assess ex post how the health of the students has survived? And what should be done to improve it if health has deteriorated?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U231	Thank you. As sport activities play a very important role in our youth's recreational education and are currently limited or, more specifically, sport schools are largely closed and in certain sports, such as swimming, opportunities have been replaced by different forms of exercise, the longing for this very favorite sport is very much. I believe that if the restrictions are gradually relaxed, the sub-mobile will have the opportunity to train outdoors and then indoors. Those kids are gonna come back, too. School-related mobility and physical education. Yes, teachers are very good at writing and instructing. Web solutions have also been developed where, for example, the results of the Cooper test can be recorded and compared. Teachers have tried to make it as attractive as possible. But I don't have any feedback on how much it is actually being filled or how much the teachers have to worry about. However, on the basis of communication with parents, this issue is unfortunately not a priority at the moment. Outdoor movement, the time a young person can be out, I must say that, despite efforts to reduce the burden, this time is less than more. But let's hope the weather gets more beautiful, and the distribution of teachers' burden has improved. The kind of assignments that go out there and film something or do some errands there, they're still coming. There are also coaches, such as my children's swimming instructors, who have very well and instructively prescribed all the exercises to be done at home with their children. I guess it's up to the child and the parent to be responsible for how many of these exercises are being done. In any case, teachers have tried to give exercises. But I can't tell you any control measures, I don't have any feedback on that. Surely teachers of physical education communicate with one another and can say better. Now the consequences. First of all, it is necessary to re-open sports opportunities as soon as possible. After all, an education of interest usually opens on May 15th. At first, he'll be more limited. Later, the odds will increase. There is a great deal of interest in sports camps, for example. Many sub-mobiles are already asking if they can make young camps just to restore the previous form. And again, I'm telling you, there's a lot of occupancy. If we can give more opportunities for the summer, maybe that's the solution. That's all I can say fast.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U232	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U233	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Very honourable Minister! Thank you very much for the very clear and concrete answers that can only be based on very serious action. As a person of this age, I know very well. The public actually thinks they know two basic disciplines...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U234	Health and education.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U235	... thinks he knows everything about them, these are education and medicine. Now I'm asking the medical side. I can see how hard these simplest hygiene habits really come, let's be honest, for people my age and a little younger and middle-aged. Where they come from, if not where we come from. The question is how and if it is planned that students of different ages can study health education. I don't mean for hours, but for how and what they should do, so that they don't go, like I see afterwards, in the outskirts, and they don't close the lid. In large establishments, dishwashers are placed next to women's toilet pots, etc. How's that in schools? How's health education really going? Maybe your parents should teach you that, but maybe I'll break in through a completely open door and you've taken very good care of it already.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U236	Thank you. Excellent question! I guess this health education in the meaning of the curriculum has been considered as subjects. Now what you are actually asking is a broader issue. We're talking in kindergarten to wash your hands, keep it clean. There's plenty of that endless recollection. Of course, the first place is home, but it is immediately followed by a kindergarten. For schools, as much social control as kindergarten... when you came from that room, did you wash your hands? It's probably not anymore. But class teachers have it on the subject of general competence. I sincerely hope that the current crisis, along with all these pictures, 'Mash your hand! 'Something's gonna change. For how long, it's a question of your own. For example, a small nuance: in many of these different countries, it is elementary that if you go to the diner and sit down, you will be presented with a hot napkin. It's an elementary rule that wherever you came from, you clean your hands first. It's what we do in some of the finest restaurants. But could it be the norm that it is? School canteens are generally so that teachers remember the washing of their hands, at least in younger classes. But I understand that this question is much, much wider. How strong is this habit? Well, it's more of a home-based thing, isn't it? And in kindergarten, maybe it's more about the subject than it is at school. But we have a much broader question here. For example, have we been able to overcome the heroic bravery that has spread in Estonian society, that I have a fever of 40 degrees during the fourth day, but see how good I am, I have come to work. It's being transferred to the kids, you tell the teacher you've been throwing up all night! This is a sick job or bringing a sick child to school or kindergarten. And it's strange, for example, the social rule that school wasn't allowed or kindergarten sent back, but I'm still going to play on the playground. Those are the basic rules. And this isn't always about a financial reason. Some of these fundamental changes, of course, I am optimistic, have perhaps now taken place. It was the feedback from kindergartens that showed this, especially in the first days when the crisis was not yet in place, but the first infections had occurred, the kindergartens had not yet made a final decision, the emergency situation had not been announced. The massive feedback from kindergartens was how to make it clear to parents that they would not bring a group of sick children or children who, for example, came from an Italian plane. Where and who's right? The debate that kindergarten is actually entitled to refuse is only now taking place. It is only in an emergency that the kindergarten has started to say specifically that we will not receive a child. So far, it has been a matter of trust. So maybe we should discuss these nuances together once more. And, of course, this is not just a matter of medicine, it is a social concept.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U237	Thank you. There are no more questions. Anybody want to make a speech? I also see the wish to speak, so the questioning is closed. Thank you very much, everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U238	But don't disperse yet, because you all have the chance to perform in a free microphone after I hit you with a hammer. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U239	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! On 3 July 2019 the Chancellor of Justice of Ülle Madise addressed the Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiige with a letter requesting the amendment of Article 3 (2) of the Law on psychiatric assistance, which did not allow the provision of psychiatric assistance to a sufficiently mature young person under 18 years of age without the consent of his legal representative or the permission of the court. The letter states: "The law does not currently allow psychiatric assistance to be provided to a minor without parental consent. Of course, parents must be involved as a rule, but there are exceptions when they do not serve the interests of a minor (a child is a victim of domestic violence for example) or is not possible (a parent has e.g. left abroad). In these cases, a young person of 17 years of age suffering from depression, eating disorder or addiction cannot be helped in a timely manner, who has turned to a psychiatrist for assistance, who is medically well-founded and who, according to a psychiatrist, is sufficiently mature to give consent. ' On 3 December 2019, the Social Democrats initiated an amendment to § 3 of the Psychiatric Assistance Act, which was also taken into Riigikogu proceedings on the same day. The bill was number 115. Already on 17 December, the Riigikogu held the first discussion in the Social Affairs Committee, where the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Ingrid Ots-Vaik, Piret Liba, the representative of the Ministry of Education and Research, Andres Aru, Head of the Children's Rights Department of the Office of the Chancellor of Justice, Kristi Rekand, adviser to the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, and Chairman of the Management Board of the Estonian Psychiatric Society, child psychiatrist Anne Kleinberg. The Commission's debate was very thorough and unanimous. All of us arrived to the truth that the psychiatric assistance law needs to be improved and that, according to the information provided by the Ministry of Social Affairs, the review of the whole psychiatric assistance law and the development of the whole concept will take several years to come, it would be wise to resolve specific vital problems immediately, for example to amend the law restricting the provision of psychiatric assistance to minors. A representative of the Ministry of Education and Research pointed out that the lack or significant delay of timely treatment will certainly hamper the child's daily life and livelihood and progress in school. Anne Kleinberg, a child psychiatrist, was pleased that such an important change had been made. He noted that three years in the life of one young adult is a very long time and, if you wait for the full concept of the law on psychiatric assistance, you will ruin the lives of a very large number of young people. Anne Kleinberg also pointed out that in the last five years, many teenagers, most of whom are upper secondary school students and apparently very active members of society, have turned to outpatient treatment with depression or anxiety disorders. A serious problem for these young people is that if the parent is suspicious of, dissuading from treatment, or there are other reasons for it, doctors will not be able to treat them and the quality of life of young people will not improve. According to him, depression is a recurring disorder, and if the first episodes are not properly treated, there is a 70% risk that it will come back and ruin the future adult life course. A meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs was held on 13 January, during which it was decided that the first reading of the draft would take place on 21 January, and it was also proposed to close the first reading. The Government of the Republic supported the amendment to the Act on the Amendment of the Law on Psychiatric Assistance initiated by the Social Democratic Party and considered it necessary to supplement the draft only with the right of adults with reduced capacity to receive psychiatric assistance on the basis of their own free and informed consent. Predictably, I would say that the amendment went in this form. The first reading was completed on 21 January. And now I might ask why I'm standing here. Why am I talking about all this? What has become of this much-needed bill, especially now, in the face of the health crisis following today's emergency and the coming economic and social crisis? Why is it not in the Chamber for reading and receiving? On four occasions, I have asked the Social Affairs Committee to include a law on psychiatric assistance on its agenda, and on four occasions coalition politicians have voted against it, led by the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. It is clear today that this draft is not included in the work programme of the Committee on Social Affairs in May. I very much hope that the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee will take this bill out of his drawer and direct the large hall. Then everyone will actually have the opportunity to show by voting how much care is given to children and their concerns, because this is not a world-view contradiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-04_U240	Thank you. There is no further request to speak, and today's session is closed. Closure of the sitting at 20:31 a.m.
