ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-29_U1	Good morning, honourable colleagues. We will begin the 3rd working week Tuesday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, there is the possibility of transferring drafts and enquiries. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-29_U2	Thank you, Mr President. Good fellows! Last Wednesday late in the evening, we discussed the draft law amending the Act on Unemployment Insurance, which was initiated by the Socialists in this Chamber. By doing so, we wanted to extend the scope of the unemployment benefit to cover workers and servants who would terminate their employment contract or employment relationship on their own initiative or in agreement with the parties, and to increase the unemployment benefit rate to 70% on the first 100 days of unemployment and to 50% on the 101st day of unemployment. Unfortunately, it did not go beyond the first reading of the bill. Tomorrow, the state budget will be handed over, and today, on behalf of the Socialists and Raimond Kaljulaid, we will return to the procedure a similar draft. Major redundancies are coming, we have all heard about this, in certain sectors, in whole sectors, people will lose their jobs. Re-training is needed. At the time, it is also important for people to have [ensure] economic security, cope, and be able to participate in training and then find a job that meets their skills and expectations. In short, that is all. I very much hope that, when this draft comes to the proceedings, next time we will have more thought through [our decision] and everyone will support the draft launched by the Socialists, and [I hope] the budget will also receive improvements from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-29_U3	Thank you. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-29_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, Every autumn and autumn we hear the same talk in the Riigikogu, at least in recent years, about how we do not understand what is written in the state budget, which means that the state budget is opaque. And then everyone's gonna promise that we're gonna make some changes. It's gonna be spring, it's gonna be forgotten. A new autumn begins and still the same concern, nothing has changed. That is why the Reform Party is proposing that we finally do this and make the state budget more transparent and understandable. We have a number of proposals here and a way to do it. Very briefly, first of all, the state budget should be a little more detailed than the breakdown: revenue, expenditure, investment and financing transactions. Secondly, members of the Riigikogu should be given electronic access to the basic data of the state budget. The role of the Riigikogu and the influence of the public should be increased by making the implementation of the state budget more visible, i.e. the data will be made public, which is currently not done, by the way, if no one has noticed. And certainly [it is also important] to improve reporting more generally. I hope that the interest of all of us is to better understand what is in the state budget and to increase the role of the Riigikogu in the budgetary process is in the interest of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-29_U5	Thank you. There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. The Bureau has therefore adopted these two drafts and will deal with them as foreseen by the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-29_U6	90 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 11.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-29_U7	We can start a review of today's agenda. We have a question on the agenda, with the draft law amending the Energy Organisation Act and the Natural Gas Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, number 202. We will start by reading this second reading, and I would like to ask Mr Rimmel, member of the Economic Commission, to be here as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-29_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, [I will introduce to you] the procedure between the first and second reading of bill 202, the draft law amending the organisation of the energy economy and the natural gas law. The draft law amending the Law on the Organisation of the Energy Economy and the Natural Gas Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic. a 1 June. The aim of the draft is to transpose the new obligations resulting from Directive 2018/2002, which will help to achieve the long-term objectives of the European Union in reducing energy use. The Directive is a step towards an Energy Union that treats energy efficiency as a separate energy source. The draft obliges the country to improve energy efficiency in such a way that, regardless of the level of economic growth, the aim must be to reduce energy consumption. The first reading of Bill 202 took place on 15 June. No amendments were tabled by the deadline of 1 July at 4 p.m., members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees. The draft procedure was notified in Parliament to the Association of Estonian Apartment Cooperatives, the Estonian Owners' Confederation, the Estonian Power Stations and District heating Association, AS Gaasivõrk and the Estonian Electric Industry Association. AS Eesti Gaas and AS Gaasivõrk issued a joint opinion on the draft. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications presented its views to the Committee on Economic Affairs. All opinions and views on the draft can be consulted on the draft map. The working group of the Economic Commission prepared the draft for the meeting of the committee at its meeting, which took place on 17 September, attended by the initiator of the draft, as well as representatives of AS Eesti Gaas and AS Gaasivõrk and the Competition Board. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the preparation for the second reading at its meeting on 22 September. The members of the committee, Ms Annely Akkermann, Mr Breivel, Mr Jaanson, Mr Kallo, Mr Korb, Mr Michal and Mr Rimmel, took part in the meeting on 22 September. There was no Kalvi Hard. Jaanus Uiga, Head of Energy Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and expert Tauno Hilimon were invited. There was only one item on the agenda: the draft Act amending the Law on the Organisation of the Energy Economy and the Natural Gas Act initiated by the Government of the Republic to send the debate to second reading. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the amendments to the draft law and Tauno Hilimon, an expert in the Energy Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, presented the amendments and answered the questions raised in connection with them. The first amendment. Directive 2018/2002 introduces the term 'final user' to refer to a wider category of consumption than the term 'final consumer' used so far. The term "end-user" used in the original draft wording needs to be clarified since the term "end-user" must also include end-users and therefore the provisions of the Directive which apply to end-users must also apply to end-users. As an important change, information on the information to be provided at the expense of the end-user or the end-user was also provided here. To this end, current prices and actual energy consumption; fuel used for the production of heating, cooling and domestic hot water by type of energy and, if the total rated thermal input of the district heating network exceeds 20 MW, it is necessary to indicate the amount of greenhouse gas emissions from production; taxes, levies and tariffs applied. And these proposals, the information that must be described on account, are also agreed with the housing associations and do not pose any problem as to their presentation. Amendment 1.6 also deletes the first point of the amendment to the Natural Gas Act, which involved the obligation for the system operator to install a gas meter in each apartment connected to the gas network after the cost-effectiveness and feasibility assessment has been carried out. This requirement will be withdrawn from this draft. The need to delete this provision was also expressed in a joint letter by AS Gaasivõrk and AS Eesti Gaas. Sven Sester asked whether this amendment was essentially a clarification of the definition of end-user, based on the Directive. Tauno Hilimon's answer was that it was. The Governing Commission's proposal was to take full account of this amendment, and this was done in a consensual manner. Amendment 2, text to be deleted: 'The procedure for assessing the cost-effectiveness and technical feasibility of installing an individual heating cost divider or meter with a remote reading function in apartment buildings or multi-purpose buildings shall be laid down by regulation of the Minister responsible for the field. ' This point is no longer practical and will be removed from this draft. Sven Sester examined whether the need for an amendment arose during the work of the working group or who pointed out this need. Mr Hilimon replied that the need for change arose during the ministry's work. The Governing Commission's proposal was to take full account of this amendment, and this was done in a consensual manner. Amendment 3 When transposing the Directive, Member States will have the option of simplifying the requirement to report the amount of greenhouse gas emissions from production in cases where heat is not consumed by more than 20 MW. If this is not the case, the relevant information must be submitted to the end-user either on the invoice or together with the invoice. This amendment will avoid an increase in administrative burdens for smaller heat sellers. The decision of the Economic Commission was to take full account of this proposal, and this was done in a consensual manner. Amendment 4 was technical and concerned the installation of meters with a remote reading function. The requirement under Article 9c of the [Directive] to install only remotely readable meters as new meters for all final consumers from 25 October 2020 and to replace all old meters by remotely readable meters by 1 January 2027 has been deleted from the original draft. The Directive takes into account the lifetime of meters when setting deadlines and assumes that by 1 January 2027 most meters installed before 25 October 2020 will have exceeded their lifetime and have been amortised. Taking into account the reasonable transitional period, it is not possible to transpose one of the Directives into force and the requirement will take effect on 25 February 2021, four months after the expected date of entry into force of the draft. Sven Sester wondered why these amendments were not immediately included in the draft, but were later tabled as amendments. Mr Hilimon replied that the need for change had been clarified during the ministry's work. The cost-effectiveness assessment study was commissioned and, together with the surveyors, the interpretation of the Directive became clearer. Jaanus Uiga added that the date of 2021 is linked to the fact that in spring the draft procedure took a long time and that it was already October. Introducing a requirement to install meters immediately is not reasonable; it is rather worth giving economic operators additional time to do so. Sven Sester asked why the date of entry into force was 25 February 2021 and not the 1st of a few months. It was answered that the Directive had introduced a requirement of 25 October 2020 and that the requirement would take effect four months after that date. The commission of directors proposed that this amendment be fully taken into account, and in a consensual manner. Amendment 5 supplements the wording of the draft. The regulation of the Natural Gas Act has now expired in some respects. At the same time, certain provisions that have become irrelevant, but which result in administrative burdens for both the state and the private sector. Both AS Gaasivõrk and AS Eesti Gaas and the Competition Board consider that the provisions aimed at regulating the price of domestic customers, which are already from the period prior to the opening of the gas market, are unreasonable. Obsolete regulation also includes the obligation for a dominant gas seller to report comprehensively to the Competition Authority on pricing. We initially had one gas supplier, but today competition has intensified and there is no need for it. [It was] proposed by AS Gaasivõrk and AS Eesti Gaas. The Governing Commission's proposal was to take full account of this amendment, and to that end, in a consensual manner. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the initiator of the draft act, supports the position, inter alia, on the basis of the views expressed by the Competition Authority, in order to make amendments to Bill 202, to repeal this point. The Competition Authority agrees with the position of the undertakings and supports the amendment of the Natural Gas Act as requested. This regulation has lost its necessity. Point 6 is purely technical. These are technical amendments which amend the numbers of the sections mentioned in the draft in accordance with the amendments. The Economic Commission's proposal was to take full account of this amendment, and to that end, in a consensual manner. Sven Sester wanted to know if any proposals were received from companies that were not taken into account. Tauno Hilimon replied that AS Eesti Gaas and AS Gaasivõrk had tabled four amendments, one of which was taken into account. Two proposals were covered by the proposals submitted by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and one was found to require more investigation and is not directly related to the transposition of this directive. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 29 September 2020 and to propose that the second reading be closed. When the second reading is closed, propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda for [third reading] and that the final vote be taken on 1 October 2020. All decisions have been taken in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-29_U9	Thank you very much, dear waitress. You have questions too. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-29_U10	Good manager! Good waitress! During your presentation, I asked the question: did the committee only deal with this matter by the chairman of the committee? Was no other member of the Commission interested in any of the questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-29_U11	No further questions were asked to the officials at this meeting. As a facilitator, I attended a working meeting earlier and was able to ask questions to Eesti Gaas, Gaasivõrk and also to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. However, no one else asked any questions at this meeting. The reasons given by the representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications were, of course, sufficiently precise.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-29_U12	Aivar Chef, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-29_U13	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I look at Amendment 4, which also raised questions in the Commission. It is said here that from 25 February next year, remote readers must be installed. I remember that when we did the gas law in the same committee during the previous term, the idea was that, from 1 January 2021, we had everything at home with remote readers: gas, water, electricity and everything else. If someone in the ministry says it has to be the 25th, does the Commission really say that, as the ministry official said, it has to be? What makes sense is that an entrepreneur is notified at least six months in advance if such a significant change is made, because a meter with a remote reading function is much more expensive than usual. Did you discuss that if the law was passed in October, the company would have six months on the basis of a good tradition before the obligations under the law would apply?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-29_U14	Indeed, the issue of the installation of remote readers was discussed in such a way that, if it had previously been foreseen in this draft that all final consumers would have to have a quadrant with a remote reading function, it would have been changed. And since this is not feasible on a cost-based basis, the volume of installation of these remote meters will be significantly reduced. The same subject has also been discussed with Eesti Gaas, Gaasivõrk and other suppliers, and in their opinion it does not raise any objections or problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-29_U15	Thank you. More questions... No, Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-29_U16	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Your answer asked me how this change now protects the consumer. I understand it must be convenient for the service provider not to have to install remotely readable meters, if I understand correctly. But once again, from the point of view of the consumer, it would be very convenient if these remotely readable meters existed. What were these considerations, why was this regulation changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-29_U17	Since it is not possible to install a reader in each apartment, firstly, and secondly, it is not feasible, then readers are installed in housing associations not at the end-user, but at the end-user, which means that they are installed at the point of entry into the house. In such cases, where an invoice is submitted to the end-user, the invoice shall indicate all the necessary information, including the type of energy it uses and the extent to which it uses, the possibilities and conditions of its competitors, and, accordingly, any subsequent decisions on the use of gas may be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-29_U18	Thank you. Now there's no more questions. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! It is possible to open negotiations. All members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to give a speech. But I don't see those wishes. So I will consider the negotiations to be concluded and we will examine the amendments which, as the rapporteur said, are six. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the opinion of the commission is to take full account of it. There are no other opinions. The second amendment is from the Committee on Economic Affairs as well as from the opinion: take full account of it. The third amendment is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the opinion of the commission: take full account of it. The fourth amendment is also from the Committee on Economic Affairs and the opinion of the commission: take full account of it. The fifth amendment is again from the Committee on Economic Affairs, and the opinion of the commission is to take full account of it. The six amendments are fully taken into account by the Committee on Economic Affairs, together with the opinion of the commission. There are no other opinions. We have examined the amendments and we have the proposal of the lead committee to conclude the second reading of draft 202. The second reading is closed and today's sitting is closed. Thank you.
