ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the 10th working week Thursday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, there is the possibility of handing over draft laws and enquiries. There is no wish to transfer draft laws and enquiries. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U2	69 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present, no 32.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U3	We can begin to address today's agenda items. There is one point on today's agenda, it is the debate on the important national issue of "Green Turn" initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, both a challenge and an opportunity for Estonia." According to § 153 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Conditions, the Management Board of the Riigikogu, on a proposal from the Estonian Central Party's political group, decided the next time to discuss the important state issue of "Green Turn" for both the challenge and the opportunity for Estonia." First, the presentation by Erki Savisaar, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, for up to 20 minutes, questions and answers for up to 30 minutes. Secondly, the presentation of the European Commissioner for Energy, Kadri Samson, for up to 20 minutes, questions and answers for up to 30 minutes. Third, the presentation of Hardi Murula, coordinator of the fair transition platform of the Association of Municipalities of Ida-Viru County, for up to 20 minutes, questions and answers for up to 30 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may submit up to two oral questions to any rapporteur. After the presentations and questions have been answered, negotiations will be opened. Speakers may be members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups. At the request of the Centre Party Group, I propose that the Riigikogu first speak with the representatives of the political groups. The Riigikogu will not take a decision to close the discussion. The Centre Party Group has proposed extending the time of the sitting until the agenda item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m., and the President will put it to the vote when the time comes. Okay. We can start with the first and only item on the agenda. I would like to ask Erki Savisaare, Chairman of the Environment Committee, for the first presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, and everyone who follows this debate over the Internet! Today, in this big hall, we are talking about an issue that concerns each and every one of us. Green turn and green management have increasingly entered public discussions and people's conversations. I believe I am not exaggerating when I say that saving the planet has never been as important a subject as today. The world is facing climate change and environmental degradation, which also affects the quality of life of Estonians, our nature and the economic environment. Climate problems have been discussed at length and in depth, and European citizens therefore take a positive view of the climate-neutrality plan. A Eurobarometer survey published last year shows that as much as 93% of respondents believe that climate change is a very serious problem, and 95% believe that this problem should be addressed. Among the Estonian population, these percentages are 80 and 85. Behind such a large support group, one can see that the green planet and the green world are at the moment a crucial issue. On the other hand, people may feel that not only the world or technology around us is changing, but that nature is also doing so. The health of the entire planet matters to people because we all want future generations to live here. The European Commission has come up with a number of initiatives. The European Green Agreement is clearly the most ambitious of them. It is a package of measures that should enable European citizens and businesses to benefit from a sustainable transition to a green economy, including measures to develop energy, the circular economy and green jobs and to implement a wave of renovations. In essence, there is a strategy for structural change in the economy and social organisation. According to analysts and scientists, this is a groundbreaking strategy that, if successful, will provide a new quality of life. It is a strategy that relieves Europe of its dependence on coal and oil. This strategy should make Europe energyally independent and environmentally sustainable. The green turn starts on a local level through local activities. The "farm to plate" strategy highlights, for example, the need to support local small and organic businesses and the importance of short supply chains. The priority is to sell local raw materials on the local market. This strategy serves two purposes: cleaner domestic food on the one hand, and food security on the other. The ability to produce food and food raw materials is extremely important because we depend on it on a daily basis. For food security, it is not enough to have some cans stored somewhere but to take care of the whole chain. Another important chapter concerns the circular economy, i.e. increasing resource recovery and reducing resource use, reducing waste, waste, pollution. This is not only the development of biodegradable packaging, but also the reduction of packaging. From the point of view of the circular economy, two main issues need to be resolved in Estonia: biodegradable waste and plastic. Estonia's prospects are pretty good when it comes to solving the plastic problem. The oil shale oil factory of Eesti Energia is already able to turn old tyres back into oil and tests with plastic. If the tests turned out to be successful, we would be able to turn into oil not only the plastic found in Estonia, but also the plastic in the whole region, which is to solve the problem for both the Baltics and Scandinavia. The production and composting of biomethane from biodegradable waste is a matter of pure capture. Technology exists, but there are difficulties in collecting. Giving the right to address the issue to those who can solve this problem would certainly turn biodegradable waste into a worthwhile commodity. In order to address the problem of packaging, it is necessary to reduce over-packaging and to encourage the use of one type of packaging for easy circulation. It is certainly not possible to give up the use of one-off packages entirely, as this entails a number of hygiene risks. However, there is a need to strike a balance between reusable packaging and disposable packaging, and one-off packaging could be as easy as possible to circulate or process. The third important pillar is energy, which must be made more sustainable and carbon neutral. Saving has long been done with light bulbs, LEDs, heat-resistant houses, etc. Energy efficiency must continue to be contributed by building new, even more energy-saving buildings and renovating existing ones. Things are more complicated when it comes to producing energy. While until now transport was dependent on oil and electricity production from oil shale, these energy cans should be replaced by sun, wind, hydrogen, methanol, biofuels and why not waste. Of course, this does not automatically mean that all plants or power plants with high carbon emissions must be shut down. You can catch carbon, too. In practice, there is no current solution for the oil shale industry, but studies are under way. I very much hope that the results will be positive, because the sustainability of both the old tyres and the plastic ringing solution will depend on it. In recent years, CO2 prices have risen so high that oil shale electricity is no longer competitive on the market, and forecasts show that CO2 prices are rising even more and faster than in the past. It is therefore essential to find new ways of generating electricity. The biggest problem with solar and wind energy is that these resources are not always available when we need energy. One might even say that we need electricity rather than the sun and the wind. Research shows that, for example, solar energy is only 20% of the time when we consume energy. Another major problem, of course, is this vast area of land that must be transformed into solar and wind fields. Solar and wind energy will certainly have its place in the future, but opportunities must be found to cross-use these areas. The conversion of valuable agricultural land into solar parks is completely unacceptable, but it is conceivable on low value agricultural land if it can also be used for example in beekeeping or grazing. But that is not enough; something else is needed, be it geothermal energy or nuclear energy. Of course, investment must also be made in energy storage, but storage alone is not enough. Energy independence requires a controlled generation capacity that would exist when this capacity is needed. Electricity seems self-evident, we'll flip the switch and he'll be there. However, in order to ensure this, many people actually work very hard. We have been on a very large and stable network so far, but this picture will change dramatically when the cables with Russia are cut. We must work together to keep the light coming when we push the switch. Finally, hydrogen. Hydrogen has many good applications. On the one hand, hydrogen is clearly the fuel of the future, but on the other hand, it is also a very good tool for storing energy. Hydrogen will also have other fuels, be it biomethane or methanol, but hydrogen will have a very important role to play in the future. In recent decades, a lot of power and energy has been devoted to the development of electric vehicles and development has been noticeable, but it takes a long time to charge batteries, the batteries are heavy and the maintenance of contact networks is very expensive and pollutes the view. Why the hydrogen? Hydrogen is the first element of the periodic table. It is also the easiest chemical element in the universe. 93% of solar system atoms are hydrogen atoms. Most of the hydrogen on Earth is in water and organic materials. As a result, there is plenty of hydrogen in Estonia, which is a substance that we ourselves can produce, separate from water and organics, and a substance that has many applications. There are many ways to produce hydrogen. One option is to use water hydrolysis, but there are other options. As hydrogen is the easiest element, of course it limits its use and transportation, but it is generally possible to do so with gas pipes, even with natural gas, as well as with cars and ships. The use of hydrogen energy has been tested quite extensively here and there. There are already many different hydrogen-powered vehicles today, starting with ships and ending with drones. Estonia has potential and Estonia could contribute to hydrogen energy by developing and testing the whole system. The budget for next year is planned at EUR 5 million for the introduction of a full hydrogen system, with at least another 25 million in the coming years. [Notes are] Fuel cell development and production, hydrogen production and storage, hydrogen logistics and refueling. The aim is to build an all-Estonian network of hydrogen filling stations and to ensure that sufficient quantities of hydrogen are produced and consumed so that this ball starts rolling. We could reach a level in the next five years where at least 2% of Estonia's transport and energy is powered by hydrogen. To sum it up. The green turn is a major challenge for Estonia, but also a unique opportunity to get rid of old addictions and achieve full energy independence. Energy is not only electricity, but also food and fuel. Let us now think a little about what one country needs for its luck: enough smart, healthy and caring people and enough energy that we can take from one form to another, deserve and use in a targeted way when we need it. The time for fine-tuning is over, the time for big and extraordinary ventures. Thanks for listening, and I'm ready to answer the questions!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U5	Thank you very much. Question time. Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U6	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable performer! That's the kind of thing I want to ask. Tallinn has invested heavily in modern public transport in recent years, which is beneficial for the environment. Would it be wise now to focus on buying hydrogen buses, hydrogen trams and hydrogen trains?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U7	Thank you. Now, if you ask for my personal opinion, I'll say of course. This plan, which Tallinn has made, to switch to gas buses is certainly environmentally sustainable, but it could have been done ten years ago. Today it is clear that with gas buses we will not achieve carbon neutrality. Gas allows us to reduce carbon emissions by 20%, but we need to reduce 100%. Other solutions must certainly be found. So I think that Tallinn should definitely think about how hydrogen energy could work in Tallinn, how Tallinn would become carbon neutral and could also play an important role in implementing the hydrogen solution. So let's wait and hope that the hydrogen will reach Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U8	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The European Commission has adopted a strategy for a farm plate. It aims to strike a balance between nature, food systems and biodiversity. How do you think the journey from the producer to the consumer could become faster so that people can consume pure Estonian food more freshly?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U10	Thank you. First of all, this shortening of supply chains may start with the simplest form of public procurement, where local authorities, public authorities and other public procurement courts order domestic food, making it a condition. We know that under the conditions of an open market in the European Union, this cannot be done by name, as a country, but it is possible to set distance limits when something comes from a distance. The other side of how it could reach people in their homes is a little more complicated. But I believe that even though the market has been conquered by large shopping centres, our clever people will soon come up with some app that will also make it possible to order farm produce very conveniently and close to home. By its very nature, this app is not complicated, it is an app like Uber or Bolt or other apps that show where there are the closest opportunities, and it is likely to offer delivery there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U11	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for explaining the Green Treaty, the Green Line! I am pleased that you have spent a long time in your speech on the hydrogen economy. This is a nice continuation of the draft that was discussed yesterday in this Chamber, with which the Riigikogu wanted to give the government the task of developing a hydrogen strategy. There were also votes for in your group, and this draft received no votes against, 38 votes for. In fact, we only lacked 13 votes. The debate was late in the evening, and I am sorry that you had to leave. But my question is, do you think that Estonia has sufficient capacity to produce hydrogen? What are the bottlenecks that are disrupting Estonia's production of green hydrogen, for which there will undoubtedly be very high demand in Europe in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U13	Thank you. First of all, the government is working on a hydrogen strategy, so in this respect it's like breaking through an open door. Of course, the long-term development and vision of hydrogen could be better rewritten. In my opinion, the right place to do so could be the development plan for the energy economy, and it could have been inside with some kind of vision five years ago. And since our energy situation has changed dramatically recently, I believe that it would make sense to take the development plan for the energy economy apart and rewrite it according to new circumstances and visions and include hydrogen. I think there is enough production capacity in Estonia to start using hydrogen energy, using hydrogen on buses, trains or ships. But in order to reach just 2%, as I was referring to here, of course, we need more power if we're just going to get green hydrogen. One way to achieve this is to use sea wind parks where hydrogen could be produced immediately and then transport this energy from that wind farm to the mainland as hydrogen, not as electricity. But in addition to the green hydrogen, there are other options. If we need large amounts of hydrogen very quickly, I think it would be worth using them too, so that we can get this economy going. And then we can also quietly deal with the fact that the hydrogen gets greener and greener.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U14	Natalia Malleus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U15	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, What are the risk factors for hydrogen fuel compared to fossil fuels?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U16	Thank you. I can't say it's more dangerous than fossil fuels. If you breathe it in large amounts, it's, yeah, dangerous, but drinking gasoline isn't healthy either. So in this respect, they kind of go into the same category. Second, if any leak occurs, it goes into the atmosphere and forms water or is bound with moisture. In this respect, it is safe for the environment, unlike oil, which causes significant pollution. Of course, because the transport and storage of hydrogen are under great pressure, it puts technology at its own challenge, but I believe that all of them can be overcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U17	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! When we move around Estonia, we see a lot of solar panel parks. How do you think it's worth building parks?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U19	Those companies that make solar parks have certainly prepared their business model and they will pay off. I can't tell you what that yield from a hectare is, but it seems to me that it's bigger than it is in agriculture at the moment, because it wouldn't be much of a temptation to put solar panels on the fields. But with regard to these sun fields, I say that it is very important to find cross-use, because there is really no reason why, for example, this same field could not be used for beekeeping or used as hay or pasture. I understand, in order to keep the sheep there, these panels have to be a little bit higher, so the sheep can get through and don't jump on it, but it's all workable. Solar panels certainly have greater potential in urban environments where it is good to put them on rooftops or façades without taking away valuable farmland from us.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U20	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U21	Thank you. The word 'greening' is perhaps the most worrying today in Ida-Virumaa. Perhaps you could open up a little bit of how we could shape our green industrial policy so that the quality of life of those people who are busy today in the oil shale sector can find work and self-realization. Moreover, so that their children can also find work and self-realization in the same home they have lived in and should not move away from there. What is green but full employment in the future of Ida-Viru County?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U22	Thank you. First of all, as in any organics, there's a little bit of hydrogen in the oil shale. Certainly, it is worthwhile to continue working on oil shale chemistry and to study that maybe we have better uses than setting that stone on fire. But on the other hand, of course, the economic environment or living environment in Ida-Viru County must be made more diverse so that there is no complete dependence on one industry. There must be many different options, one of which would certainly be energy. As I mentioned here, we actually benefit from these large factories in the green economy. We can recycle the old tires there, and hopefully we can recycle the plastic and do it instead of the oil shale. The question is simply whether it is possible to use 100% plastic for plastics, for example, or whether these stones should be tossed in a little bit. In the case of old tyres, it was found that up to 30% of the volume can be replaced by tyres. The other side is definitely a good connection. If it is possible to get there quickly or quickly to Rakverre or Tallinn, for example, it will certainly provide new prospects to live in Ida-Viru County, but to work somewhere further away.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U23	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U24	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You spoke about the circular economy and energy. I am asking you here: what do you think is the awareness of businesses when measuring and changing their CO2 content. If we look at progressive companies in the world, such as Apple, their goal is to achieve carbon neutrality by 2030. The conditions for financing will increasingly depend on the environmental footprint of the company. This issue is certainly much wider than the circular economy and energy. What is your assessment of this? And secondly, I want to ask you about transferring hydrogen to 2% in transport. What is the need for investment and the time needed to prepare for us to reach 2% in five years? In the area of sea wind parks, for example, we are several years behind the Lithuanians, they are already working on general plans and everything else.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U25	Thank you. Of course, climate neutrality begins with each of us, as a private person, then as an entrepreneur and then as a community, trying to become carbon neutral. I am delighted to see businesses increasingly advertise that they are already carbon neutral or are on their way, and try to find new ways of doing their business so that the environmental footprint is smaller. If we look at this investment plan, it is two parts: one is private investment and the other is the state's contribution to it. The State's contribution is primarily intended to address the market failure. If today we move very actively to some other technology, it is a trick more expensive than the traditional solutions that we have used so far and which equipment can possibly be obtained from the aftermarket. With the support of the State, this difference can be compensated in such a way that new technology becomes more economically attractive than old use. Now, for the amount of hydrogen, I would say that if, for example, oil shale oil refinery had come, then hydrogen energy would already be at 2% and above. This [designed] plant also provided a great deal of hydrogen production. True, it was not meant to be green hydrogen at the time, but it would still be hydrogen, and it would have covered all the needs in the transport sector. What exactly do we need to do, and how much is missing? It's hard to say. It's gonna have to be analyzed a little bit. The ministry is a little behind on these tests, so it's gonna have to pick up the pace to catch up. But the preliminary estimates say that some of the windmills we have near the West Estonian islands are capable of producing so much hydrogen that it could be used in ferry traffic, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U26	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U27	I wanted to quit.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U28	Do you want to ask or not? Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, In your report, you focused very thoroughly on hydrogen. Last night, in the late hours of the evening, we discussed hydrogen very thoroughly in this Chamber. The proposal was to give the government the task of drawing up a hydrogen strategy. Unfortunately, the mid-group had probably had to leave because of the late hours and could not support this initiative. Today, you said the Ministry was working on it. As far as I know, he is not working on drawing up a strategy, but he is really looking for ways to produce and use hydrogen in Estonia. You answered Andres Sut's question that we are lagging behind and that we need to pick up the pace. You say that 2% of energy and transport could be on hydrogen. Let me get this straight: you would support a strategy that would also help the government, the authorities, to deal with this issue more seriously, perhaps to channel more money there? Would there be any reason to re-enter this bill on Monday, discuss it and give a decent green light from this Riigikogu to make a hydrogen strategy?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U30	Thank you. This process could be the other way around: first we discuss and then we decide whether a draft is needed. I'm sure it'll work out better this way. Generally speaking, if we had a more comprehensive vision document, it would certainly give some peace of mind. Whether it would make the process go any faster, I doubt that. The government is currently dealing with this issue quite actively and for the first time. The issue of hydrogen could have been dealt with by previous governments, but at least among the priorities of this government. If there is sufficient knowledge of this technology and Estonia's possibilities, it will also be written in vision documents. However, when we look at a vision document such as "Estonia 2035," hydrogen is mentioned there, and that is something too.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U31	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress Erki, if she still tells the government of the Riigikogu, these wheels should start moving faster, we still believe in ourselves! My question now comes from this area that the government has recently decided on the fair transfer of Estonian money to the green treaty. Do you think this plan is a good one? Is it prepared with sufficient time? Does this ensure that the people of Ida-Viru and now the people of other parishes and their children will have good bread on the table in the future and sausage on the bread?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U33	Thank you. I believe that the plan that has been made is really good and thoughtful. There's a general plan for today, but the details will be revealed in the course of the work, when the time comes. The East Viru programme is also, I think, quite perspective and allows a new face to be given to this region. Of course, there could be more of these instruments. But I think with the money that has already been found, there is a great deal to be done. And indeed, the government has made a request to expand the area a little bit, within the "pre-administrative reform" borders of Ida-Virumaa. But I am not at all sure that Europe will give a positive answer to this. Rather, the money still goes within the limits that Ida-Viru County has today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U34	A procedural question. Please, Mart Võrguship!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U35	A procedural question. Let me get this straight. It's possible to ask two questions to each waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U36	Yeah, that's right. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U37	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! What, in your opinion, are the biggest obstacles or challenges currently hindering faster greening in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U38	Thank you. I think it would be most helpful if we had one particular player or leader on this green turn. Perhaps it would be worth thinking about the fact that we are going to appoint a specific minister responsible for the green turn across this whole spectrum, because if we look at this green twist, [we will see that] it covers all areas of life. There is a little responsibility for the Minister for the Environment, but there is also a great deal of responsibility for the Minister for Economic Affairs and a great deal of responsibility for the Minister for Public Administration. In fact, it is also the responsibility of all other ministers to have something to do with the green turn. So the existence of such a single liability would certainly help.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U39	Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U40	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good performer! How do you think it's possible to call hydrogen the fuel of the future? What is the probability that in the future it will be possible to give up other types of fuel so that only hydrogen will remain?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U41	Thank you. I don't think we're going to get that result, we're just going to have a hydrogen. Certainly, some fuels remain purely because they are simply generated and should be used sensibly in some way. One fuel that I'm sure will remain is biomethane. If we are dealing with agriculture or the treatment of bio-waste, this gas will be generated and this gas could somehow be used sensibly. Secondly, electricity transport will certainly remain in some parts, especially within the city or in the case of the last km of transport. But in other respects, yes, I think a very large part goes to hydrogen, and the use of hydrogen is not only in transport, so-called car or bus fuel, but can also be used in households, it can produce electricity. So these uses are considerably more.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U42	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The green turn, as it seems to me, is a very important and priority strategy for the European Union as a whole and certainly for Estonia. One of the most problematic places in this case is Ida-Virumaa and everything that has to do with it. This is understandable because [the turn of the grass] is causing real panic because people do not know what will happen tomorrow and what will happen to them. It seems to me that this money-sharing strategy will not reassure anyone because people will not know what will happen to their jobs tomorrow. What's your vision? Do you see that in the near future, the government and the European Union could give a concrete message that specific jobs will come, investments will be made, and businesses will be supported, who will bring investment and create jobs, so that people can see and believe that jobs will really come, they will not have to move, and that their children will also be able to live and work there [in the future]?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U44	Thank you. First of all, Martin, I would like to tell you that there is no reason to panic, peace, peace only. And for entrepreneurs in Ida-Virumaa, as you are, I recommend more good innovative ideas. Think about what kind of business it would be good to do in Ida-Virumaa, which brings the most new people, new jobs, and offer solutions. I believe that if the undertaking is good, it does not need any great support. But with national programs, we will make sure that people in Ida-Viru County have a decent life. As far as possible, re-training is being carried out, new applications are being sought, and the use of oil shale continues to some extent. We are clear today that, at least until 2030, these oil shale oil plants will work, or at least this one oil shale plant will work, and the old oil shale power plants will also be in standby mode. They'll be there in case there's an energy shortage. Despite the fact that we have very nice connections with Latvia, Finland, Poland and Sweden, it has happened that we have developed an energy deficit, and these oil shale plants have also started this year. So that's where life continues and jobs are preserved. We simply need to approach innovatively and look for new challenges.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U45	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U46	My foreman has already told me the introduction, so I am not going to praise Ida-Viru County or slander others here. However, the question is that we have really done a lot of work with the companies and organisations that are working on this, concerning an innovative approach to production. But there is one very big problem with manufacturing. When you propose these things to entrepreneurs, it turns out that our energy resource in Ida-Virumaa is much smaller than it was. It's the same thing you were just talking about. How are we gonna handle this? We can make industrial parks there, but if there isn't enough speed of transport and there isn't enough electricity to take as much as they need, these industrial things will generally collapse. And the second quick question is that hydrogen is a very nice thing, and with it we have a lot of...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U47	Time will be up, please, to formulate a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U48	We have an oil shale competence center. Shouldn't we make a hydrogen competence center, too?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U49	Thank you. We have a hydrogen competence center. After all, we have the Institute of Chemical Physics and Biophysics, where there is a very good competence. I don't know if there's another competence center. But in the context of Ida-Virumaa, I would think that there are some very clear people with specifics and skills. Perhaps it is worth thinking that maybe it's wise to mine some kind of earth metal, then they can continue their profession and take advantage of their knowledge. If you look at the market, earth metals are at times far more valuable than gold, so perhaps it is worth researching in this area as well. I know that the mineral resources that Estonia has in place will be remapped nationally. As far as energy generation capacity is concerned, of course, when old power plants go down, a new capacity needs to be created. I know it's being dealt with in Ida-Virumaa. The development of wind parks is booming there and solar energy can also be added. I know that there are other ways to increase this amount of energy. I told you about transport once. Of course, it is extremely important to have good connections, both ways: so that we can work very quickly from somewhere else in Ida-Virumaa, and on the other hand, so that Ida-Virumaa can also go somewhere else if necessary. What matters today is not that there is a job several miles away, but how quickly you get there. And if there's a way to use teleworking, if we get anywhere with the last mile of the Internet, it'll give us more opportunities to do more work in Ida-Virumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U50	Thank you very much. The time for questions is up. The following questions are addressed to the following rapporteurs: I now ask for the next presentation by Mr Kadri Samson, European Commissioner for Energy. Also a 20-minute report. Thank you for coming!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U51	Hi! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is indeed a pleasure to once again be here in this home, but in this historic hall. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to talk about today's European Commission's biggest initiative, the Green Agreement. This is an initiative that covers all areas of life. It concerns every region in Europe, every Member State, every person. But this is not only a pact concerning Europe, it is also a very important basis for our international dialogues. Last time I was in this Chamber a year and a half ago, I answered your questions in front of this House. But we were all in such a situation last summer that it was not yet quite clear what field the Commissioner from Estonia would cover in the European Commission, which portfolio President Ursula von der Leyen would entrust to the Estonian Commissioner. But already then, it was anticipated that the new President of the Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, would have a plan to bring higher climate goals to the table and that he would focus more specifically on the environment. This is a very logical choice of public opinion studies, suggesting that nine out of ten Europeans consider climate change to be a serious problem and believe that environmental protection is personally important for them. These issues are particularly close to the heart, as we know, for the younger generation. However, it is also important that, despite the corona crisis that is taking place throughout the world, these issues have not lost any importance this year either. So I'm sure most of you will be familiar with what the Green Treaty, which was issued last December, is all about. But since I know that we are also being watched online by people who may not be so well informed about the green turnaround, I think it is appropriate to give a brief overview of our initiative here. Climate change and environmental degradation are serious threats for both Europe and the world. Such problems cannot only be solved by picking and hoping for the best in your area. Someone has to be a direction indicator, someone whose activities attract others. Europe has been that since last December. We introduced the Green Agreement as our growth strategy, which at the same time would contribute to solving climate problems. And that's what we're trying to achieve with a green turn. Simply put, the Green Agreement aims to make Europe the first climate-neutral part of the world by 2050. At the same time, it is certainly a growth strategy that involves all areas, from transport, the environment, health and rural areas, but see that the most important aspect of the Green Contract is energy, because as much as 75% of today's CO2 emissions in the European Union come from the field of energy. As you know, in the European Commission, the Green Deal Cluster is run by First Vice-President Frans Timmermans. But, as has been mentioned, there is a team of commissioners, a team responsible for implementing the green turn, with a much broader round of Commissioners. The green contract train has been able to travel for one year today, and despite the obstacles that have been pushed to the tracks in the meantime, the locomotive is moving firmly forward. Although the COVID-19 hit the whole world unexpectedly and, of course, there were those who thought it would push us and our train off the tracks, and climate issues must remain in the background, this has not happened. The Green Agreement remains a priority for the European Commission, which was the case before the crisis and will continue to be a long-term priority, as the need to make the European economy cleaner and more competitive has not disappeared. Paradoxically, in the current situation, where the corona has made quite a change of direction in the mind, this change of direction has been very good for the green turn. At the beginning of the year, I heard a good comparison, which I still like to highlight in the light of the Green Treaty, because it concerns the history of mankind. This comparison came from history, from the time of mankind's Stone Age. As you know, mankind came out of the Stone Age, introducing newer, smarter tools, not because the stone ran out, but because there were smarter solutions. And so we also emerge from fossil times, not because the world runs out of oil or natural gas or coal, but because we have smarter and more sustainable solutions. They certainly need additional investment at this stage. Therefore, because we are in a situation where the economy needs to be revived and can be done with additional investment, the green turn has become very favourable. From the previous major crisis, Europe learned that those who are reviving their economies at the right moment will emerge from the difficulties. It is now clear that this knowledge is also based on today's exit from the crisis in Europe. We have an overall willingness to behave and to make additional investments in future solutions. There is no point in putting extra money into those activities that are no longer conducive to our global competitiveness. Research also shows that renewable energy generates more jobs and added value than putting the same money in the chains that start with fossil fuels. So this is the situation we're looking forward to today. The European Union has never been in a unique situation where there are as many financial opportunities as I hope we can say this evening. Today, the Heads of Government are meeting in Brussels to agree on the next long-term, seven-year budget. In addition, there is a EUR 750 billion recovery facility on the table, the Next Generation EU, which is intended to provide an exceptional economic recovery facility. By putting all the resources together, we have a financial package of EUR 1.8 trillion, the largest ever. The Commission's clear recommendation to the Member States is that 30% of both the long-term budget and the new recovery facility go to investments related to climate objectives. Today, we are in a situation where the European economy relies about 86% on fossil fuels: coal, oil, gas, oil shale. We use them to keep our industry going; to move from point A to point B; to a large extent also to heat our home. But to respond to the challenge of transition to a climate-neutral economy, new ideas are needed, which are the sources with which we can replace coal, oil and natural gas. Of course, this change cannot only happen in Brussels; it must be done in agreement with the Member States. And I am pleased to note that Estonia is among the Member States that support the European Commission's proposals on climate neutrality. But in pursuing climate neutrality, it is important that no region, no people, is forgotten or abandoned. In the Estonian context, Ida-Viru County has certainly remained in the most precarious situation, which depends to a large extent on the oil shale sector. The oil shale sector accounts for 75% of Estonia's energy production. The oil shale-related sectors account for about 4% of Estonia's GDP and about 45% of county's GDP and 69% of Estonian greenhouse gas emissions. For me, it is not just a matter of what we use when oil shale needs to be replaced with something. The question is also what to do for Ida-Virumaa, so that the area based on the oil shale sector does not fade in the light of the green contract. Europe's answer to this question is a new fund for a fair transition. This fund will provide support specifically for those regions that depend on the extraction of fossil fuels or industries that emit much CO2 into the air. This fund is intended for those regions facing important socio-economic challenges which are more serious than other regions in terms of achieving climate neutrality. The idea of this new facility has emerged from a very specific initiative that was originally planned only for coal mining areas, but, further on, we realised that it was not only a question of coal mines, but these fossil fuels, for example, brown coal, oil shale and security, are also in many other Member States. So there are a number of Member States in Europe whose government is in a difficult position for climate neutrality, because they have important regions that have been dependent on extraction for decades. In parallel, there are regions in Europe with large industrial companies using the same coal, natural gas or oil, and the conversion of their production units or plants to hydrogen, for example, is very costly. And in today's situation, even more complex, it is not functioning on a market-based basis today. So it is clear that Member States need additional support. They also need the help of the European Union, which we are offering with a fair transition fund. Overall, all Member States will be able to participate in the overall amount of EUR 17.5 billion of the Fair Transition Fund, because they all have a region in need of support. Estonia's share of this fund is 340 million euros, plus technical assistance. It is certainly quite appropriate to mention here that Estonia's support per capita is the largest in Europe. Thus, these funds can be used in Ida-Virumaa, preferably for retraining and further training of people of working age, so that they can find applications in another area with a smaller ecological footprint. This money can and must also be used to create new jobs. Industrial jobs are also the preferred ones. But the European Commission does not spell out where the money is to be spent. The government of each Member State must come up with a plan drawn up in cooperation with the local region. Why don't we write it down? Because the challenges vary greatly from region to region. However, in the 2020 country-specific recommendations, the European Commission has recommended that Estonia direct the support of the Fair Transition Fund to Ida-Virumaa. And in the case of Ida-Viru County, for example, improving transport connections between cities may also be part of the plan. If there are no jobs in one area, such as Ahtmes, then people need to be able to move quickly [for others] in their region. Of course, the final choice of these measures must be the result of cooperation between the municipalities and the government. Time factor is particularly important. There has not been a very long time to develop these plans, as the first nearly 200 million euros will have to be made by the end of 2023 and finally, the rest of the investments will have to be made by the end of 2026. This means a pretty strong time pressure, whatever good plans are put in place in the region and implemented in cooperation with entrepreneurs. Therefore, honourable members of the Riigikogu, just as we must act here in Estonia, the European Commission will act as well. And, as I mentioned, today, even three quarters of the total emissions from the European Union come from the energy sector, which means that my work field as Commissioner for Energy is wide. Let me also give a quick overview of developments in European energy over the last year. First of all, I am pleased to note that the energy sector was very well opposed to the unexpected crisis in spring, where many Member States closed their societies. Even in the most difficult days, in the most difficult weeks, when the situation was very difficult in many sectors, Europe's security of supply was always guaranteed. This will give us confidence for the future that this sector has thoroughly worked through various crisis scenarios for extraordinary times. But speaking of initiatives in the last six months in the field of energy, the list is quite long and covers a number of energy sources. This is usually the case: when the Commission starts work, the first year comes up with strategies that set targets, sets a general course. They will be followed by specific legislation. Finally, in order for there to be a job, negotiations with the Member States and with the European Parliament must of course take place. But just a sequel. As early as July, we came up with the integration of energy systems and the hydrogen strategy. In September, Vice-President Frans Timmermans and I presented the European Union's 2030 higher emission reduction targets. In October it became a published renovation wave strategy and a renewed methane strategy. And the most recent initiative included an offshore renewable energy strategy, from the wind we all know to the wave and rising energy. Although all the initiatives mentioned above also have considerable potential in the Estonian context, it seems from recent meetings that the most widespread speakers in Estonia have become hydrogen opportunities, but also renovations. Thinking about the climate change and greenhouse gases that lie before us, we tend first to look at oil rigs, coal mines, smoking chimneys, cars. This is all right, of course, but the fact is also that the actual circle of energy consumers and energy spenders is much wider. Studies show that 40% of the total energy produced in the European Union is consumed in buildings. It also comes with 36% of greenhouse gases issued in the European Union. For Estonians, renovation of buildings is not new and unusual. We know that this action will bring benefits; there is enormous potential for this in Europe. The European level initiative is broadly simple: we want to make renovation twice as energy efficient by 2030. This also means that 35 million buildings in Europe will have to be completely renovated by 2030. The new proposal will help simplify this process by removing the current barriers in the Member States, whether legislative or administrative, or financial. Buildings can be made more energy-efficient in many ways, starting with better insulation and changing windows, but a thorough renovation will certainly also involve renewable green energy. For example, the owner of a building may be given the opportunity to produce electricity by means of solar panels on the roof. When it comes to hydrogen, it should be stressed that at European level, of course, our focus is on pure hydrogen, which would help decarbonise those sectors where electricity is not the solution for end-use. This is either technically impossible or too expensive for today's knowledge, talking about the heavy industry, talking about a few modes of transport, especially heavy goods vehicles. Why am I emphasising pure hydrogen? Because it is no secret that today's hydrogen, which consumers can use, is largely based on natural gas, but the hydrogen of the future must be based on renewable energy. As I have already mentioned, Estonian entrepreneurs, as well as Estonian politicians, have shown a clear interest in hydrogen. We're not in a unique state here. Several Member States, such as Germany, France, the Netherlands and Spain, have already confirmed their national hydrogen strategies. Austria and Portugal are coming up with a strategy. All these plans show us one thing: in the long run, hydrogen will move across borders; it will not remain a local solution. For us, Estonia and the Baltic Sea countries in general, there is clearly a [important] potential for wind energy, which provides a major advantage for the cheap production of clean hydrogen. Hydrogen also provides a good way to save electricity. So I believe that this is an area where the first responders will certainly have a clear competitive advantage, and this must be borne in mind in future strategies. Ladies and gentlemen, A few words about the international dimension of the Green Contract. When the European Commission came up with the green turn a year ago, there were many sceptics who said that we were too ambitious, we set ourselves too ambitious targets. And since the European Union is only issuing 9% of greenhouse gases, only our actions on a global scale do not affect too much. But then it was said that Europe was not going to turn around alone, but was looking for other thinkers in other regions. It has also been said that this is not just about the climate, but about the introduction of new technologies, research and development. Over the course of the year, I have had the opportunity to hold consultations with many of the world's ministers, from the Middle East to America and from Africa to Asia on the way to the TV bridge, and I can see that our goals are urging others as well. No one wants to miss what the introduction of new technologies will do for the competitiveness of one region. So we have seen in the autumn that both Japan and China have announced the dates when they will become climate-neutral. The future President of the United States, Joe Biden, has said that his first step will be to reconnect with the Paris climate agreement. And it can certainly be assumed that his ambition does not stop there. So we're moving towards a greener world. I will try to sum up the long story. It is time to move from polluting fuels to cleaner solutions. The European Commission is ready for this. Member States and partners around the world are increasingly committed to such steps. This is demonstrated even by our debate in this Chamber today. And, of course, we have knowledge, we have a financial period ahead of us, with extraordinary financial resources for implementing this knowledge, and we certainly have a guideline that a very high percentage of these funds must be allocated to climate change spending. This is an excellent opportunity to strengthen the Estonian economy as well, and to do so in such a way that no region should feel abandoned. Thank you. I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U52	Question time. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Good Kadri! I very much welcome the European Commission's great ambition in the fight against climate change and the various parts of the various packages that have already emerged today, so that we all, together and separately, fulfil the objective of the Paris climate agreement, reduce greenhouse gases so that global warming can be maintained below two degrees. But the Paris climate agreement also has another very important objective: cash flows should be brought into line with this objective. The European Union has also done so, you talked a lot about the way the budget is going to be more focused on it. My question is how compatible the Paris Agreement and the European objectives are with action in which a Member State like Estonia adopts green money to support a fair transition, but puts its own money into expanding the production of fossil fuels. Estonia is a small country, but we imagine that Poland, for example, will receive hundreds of millions of euros for a fair transition, but from its money, coal mines and coal stations will be built. How does it feel in the European Commission's view?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U54	The fact is that most energy investment must come from the private sector, private investment. European co-financing certainly plays a major role, as well as national budgets, but the bulk of funding comes from the private sector. The private sector must carry out a so-called cost-benefit analysis in which areas the perspective is 10 and 30 years. We believe that our Member States are taking climate neutrality seriously, and by 2050 this objective has been achieved in each Member State. However, in today's situation, according to the Treaty, each Member State has the right to decide what its energy portfolio is made up of. And the fact is that there are still Member States that have not announced when they will stop using coal stations, for example. There are Member States that have increased their ambition very strongly and exited from the use of coal or lignite faster than they planned a year ago. Indeed, the latter was Poland, which announced that it had reached an agreement with the Polish coal miners' trade union and that by 2049 coal would no longer be used in Poland. With regard to the Estonian state's investments, the cost-benefit analyses must show which production there is still a market for. I think it is also very important to bear in mind that it was not the greening that put market restrictions on oil shale electricity, but that it was the price. Other power generation units simply offer Estonian consumers a more favourable price, which oil shale electricity cannot compete with in the majority of hours.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U55	Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! First of all, thank you very much for this good overview. We have been dealing with hydrogen and hydrogen strategy here for almost two days. Yesterday we discussed this issue here, and in your presentation you also focused on it by introducing a European view. You are a former Minister of Economic Affairs and I think you can appreciate this very well in the Estonian context. My question is, if there were ever a hydrogen plant in Estonia, which county would it come to? Could it be in Ida-Virumaa, for example? What suggestions or thoughts do you give to the Estonian government or the state as to whether it should be created on the basis of a private company or whether it should be the state that is carrying this project? Is there a country we can learn from?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U57	Hydrogen has two points of development ahead. Firstly, in order for the price of hydrogen to become more competitive, we need more consumers to adopt it. Europe's own funds help, for example, industry to change its equipment so that they can use hydrogen. On a market-based basis, such investments in industry are not yet worthwhile today. The second question is how we can produce more clean hydrogen, because 98% of the hydrogen consumed in Europe comes from natural gas, and natural gas is also known to be a fossil resource. However, this production produces CO2. In order to produce clean hydrogen, we need more renewable energy. I think we could look at sea wind parks here, there are hours in which the network does not need so much of this production, and hydrogen could be a good solution for these low-demand hours. I know that many private investors are about to calculate this plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U58	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You have stressed several times in your speech that the money from the Fair Transfer Fund is reserved for Ida-Virumaa. As Commissioner of the European Commission, how do you comment on the recent decision of the Government Office to open negotiations with the European Commission on the extension of the fair transition area to West-Viru and Northern-Jõgeva, in a situation where the European Union has provided for aid under the Fair Transition Fund Regulation to be limited to those regions where the adverse effects of the transition must be compensated by supporting the most affected territory and the workers concerned?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U60	Thank you for your question. As this morning, the Estonian Government has not begun this negotiation with the European Commission, I cannot comment on any of this. But I can tell you where the idea of a fair transfer fund was born. For Europe to become a climate-neutral continent by 2050, the governments of all European Member States must be behind this idea. As I mentioned, there are regions, countries where the coal mine is very important, and exiting there is likely to be more complex and challenging than those Member States that do not themselves extract fossil minerals. Therefore, in the last budgetary period, the European Parliament proposed that additional aid could be provided to the coal regions in particular. Their proposal was to give EUR 5 billion from the budget to coal mining regions. This idea was discussed, extended to other mining areas as well as to industrial areas. The amount went up to 17.5 billion. This is not a very decisive part of the budget for the next budget period, against a background of 1.8 trillion. But he's only meant for those people, the counties that will have to see major changes in the area of home in the next three decades. If there is such a sceptical opposition to the green turn, it is likely to come from experience that in all the major industrial revolutions, some regions have grown rapidly and others have perished. Our aim is that the shelves in Europe will not lead to the exclusion of some regions. The question I have seen in the public is that the borders of Ida-Virumaa have changed with the last administrative reform. Before the administrative reform, Aseri was part of Ida-Virumaa, which is now part of Viru-Nigula rural municipality. If the Government of the Republic of Estonia, or the respective Ministry, can show that this area is also affected very strongly by the grassroots revolutions, then of course there will be consultations on this issue. Reasonable arguments are always open. But what I want to say once again is that there are many regions in Europe that have already abandoned coal, for example, and it was an agreement that all good works that have been done before will not be financed ex post. The Fair Transition Fund is intended to alleviate future reforms [funding].
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U61	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for your presentation. I'm so sorry the coalition ambassadors aren't listening to you. It was a very good presentation, you have very good observations and thoughts and ideas. Yesterday, in the Riigikogu, we had a draft Reform Party proposal proposing to the Government of the Republic to develop a hydrogen strategy. This bill was voted out. I would like to know your opinion on whether Estonia should develop a hydrogen strategy and whether it is needed by Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U63	Thank you, good Kristina, for the question. But I don't think the coalition ambassadors are listening at all. I must first say that this is a truly positive special treatment, that I can be in a hall where there are other people. This is extraordinary what is happening in Estonia! I have been holding consultations with the European Parliament for a long time, so that I only see good MEPs on TV. So thank you to everyone who is in the Chamber, but even more thanks to those who are watching the debate on TV, it is quite possible! Human contact is valuable, but work can also be done using technical means. Now this question of the hydrogen strategy. I have attended meetings on hydrogen in the Ministry of the Environment, because there is a working group on hydrogen, and I know that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has also set up a renewable energy council. So ministries are working together, and this cooperation is necessary to advance on the hydrogen issue. Each strategy needs a study ahead of time, and therefore this parallel study on the deployment of hydrogen resources is certainly a good step forward. It is hydrogen that provides an opportunity to replace imported fossil fuels with locally produced solutions everywhere in the European Union. Before, Erk wondered if we needed scientific development. I would say that we have technology, but we need a strategy where clean hydrogen is produced and how clean hydrogen is produced, and additional support for those who are ready to adopt it, because there must always be demand for a functioning market.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U64	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U65	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good performer! Previously on one issue here, this old-fashioned approach to fossil resources was that they were harmful and that their use should be discontinued and should not be supported by European money. But I have a question of whether, on the contrary, more European money should support these science-based approaches to transform fossil resources so that they are clean, give clean energy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U66	Thank you for a good question. Indeed, that is what we do. R &amp; D is essential for us to achieve our goals. If we see that we are now 2020 there are many real solutions that will help us to be climate-neutral in 2050, they may not yet exist today, or at least they are not yet marketable in terms of price. So R &amp; D is essential. In the field of energy, too, we are ready to invest in solutions that will help fossil fuels to continue. One of these is carbon capture and storage, i.e. carbon capture and storage, which does not exist in Europe today as an existing solution, and the Rotterdam port project has come the most farthest. This will help oil refineries capture and store CO2 in empty gas deposits in the North Sea. This CCU or CCS technology is still expensive today, it's easier to release your CO2 into the atmosphere. But, as we know, technologically acting solutions will become cheaper over time. This may be an appropriate way not only for oil but also for oil shale. I have just visited Ida-Virumaa and I can tell you that oil shale has many uses in the chemical industry. So this technological know-how is at the cutting edge of Europe in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U67	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for your presentation and your review. At the beginning of your presentation, you said that Europe has set itself a great goal of becoming climate-neutral. Clearly, achieving this will depend on the contribution of each country. My question is, how does it feel from the European side where Estonia is located? Are we more at the forefront, somewhere in the middle or at the end? What do we do well to do better? Similarly, in the light of hydrogen technology, are we at the top, in the middle or behind, and what could be done differently? Where are we? Perhaps you will give some suggestions to the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic so that we can move to. And I'm gonna give you a point with this renovation wave. You mentioned that the focus is on energy sources and insulation, but there is at least one start-up in Estonia that is monitoring buildings, the energy class of the building will be looked at throughout its life. It's not really being analyzed today. I think that this could be Estonia's success story: we not only build the building ready, but we also have its energy class monitored and optimised on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U69	Absolutely agrees that there are many fields of study in Estonia. Renovation is perhaps the most outstanding example, because housing associations do not have to convince them that heating an apartment building that is several decades old pays off in the short or medium term, especially if some subsidies are helpful. In many countries, the European plan has not yet resolved the question of how apartment buildings with several hundred owners would be prepared to take this commitment together and thus save it. When we talk about the long term, 2050, Estonia is a supporter of climate neutrality. When we talk about 2030, all Member States had to submit their 2030 climate and energy plans for the last year. There are two main pillars. One is how much of your energy portfolio is filled by renewable energy, and the other is how much you save in final consumption and what you do to ensure energy efficiency. This is a difficult issue for a large part of the Member States of the European Union. Next summer, we will enter into negotiations to intensify our activities and raise our targets on a pan-European basis. By 2030 [target] is set to reduce greenhouse gases by 40%. The Commission's proposal is to raise it to 55%. As you remember, the energy economic development plan adopted by the Riigikogu a few years ago tells Estonia that by 2030 we will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 70%. In this context, if there is a debate about the transition from 40% to 55% and Estonia's target is 70%, there has been ambition here in the past.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U70	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you for this review, it's a pleasure to see you in Estonia! I hope that the fact that Estonia is the largest polluter per capita in the European Union was not the reason why you have just received this portfolio. But I'm sure the motivation is the greater. You talked about how private investors need to look at profitability and that it is as if it should determine whether they are investing in fossil fuels. Regrettably, the Estonian state has once again decided to invest 125 million euros in an oil factory through Eesti Energia. How do you assess the prospects for this profitability? However, Eesti Energia has itself stated that it is their renewable energy side, Enefit Green, which is the most profitable at the moment. Perhaps you would also comment on the possibility of buildings. In Estonia, wood architecture is very good and we could encourage it even more by asking us to measure the binding nature of buildings in procurement, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U72	Thank you. I cannot comment on the investments made by Eesti Energia; these data have not reached my desk in any way. But let's just say oil shale oil competes with oil on the world market and oil is at a very volatile price. We saw major falls this spring when transport stopped all over the world at once. There have certainly been higher prices, but all the feasibility studies need to look at who is competing for your market share. I sincerely hope that the business company has carried out these cost-benefit assessments. In the case of buildings, indeed, we are talking about their energy efficiency. Here too, account must be taken of what buildings are made of, how much it has cost to produce building materials for these good thermal buildings or what kind of footprint it is. The wooden architecture is certainly sympathetic. As an architect, you have certainly also noticed the proposals made by President Ursula von der Leyen to Bauhaus that the building must not only be sustainable and long lasting, but also visually pleasing to people. Therefore, at the highest level, i.e. the President of the European Commission, all these sectors, from the materials industry to architects, urban planners and energy engineers, will be summed up to say that, if ever in the future, they will look back to 2020 or 2030: this was the time when they thought in a sustainable but aesthetic way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U73	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Commissioner, I would like to thank you very much. You said in your report that the development and production of renewable energy will create more jobs than the production of fossil fuels. If we want Europe to be the first climate-neutral continent by 2050, we should already be able to choose the professions that will make us competitive in this area over the next 30 years. How do you comment on the reality of the situation for young people who are about to enter the labour market and for children who are still in school? Will this issue reach this energy package as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U75	He arrives because part of this great change is definitely also human skills and know-how. The fact that greening creates more jobs than disappears is not knowing from a newspaper, but from an international climate agency survey. Of course, one key here is that we must try to keep the whole value chain in Europe. These jobs are also linked to the production of equipment. At this point in time, the European Union is in the hands of, for example, the technology and manufacturing of sea wind parks, but, in the case of batteries or solar energy, this leadership must be re-claimed, it has gone out of Europe. So this is one very important aspect, so that people have the appropriate preparation. This is also a very important aspect of the Fair Transfer Fund, so that people with good technical skills, who are working on mineral extraction today, can apply themselves in other technical areas as a result of retraining. Sea wind parks are a good example. For example, on the North Sea a few generations ago, grandfathers were fishermen on coastal areas, then their sons were operating on oil platforms, and now their grandsons are maintaining good operating wind farms, and these old coastal villages or areas of fishing ports are high-tech industrial areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U76	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U77	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Kadri, thank you for your briefing. I'm gonna ask you a little harder today. What is the European Commission's assessment of ITER? When could ITER produce or be able to produce a controlled thermonuclear reaction so that we put less energy in than we can and that it lasts for a while? When can we see the first thermonuclear power plant operating or operating? What else could the European Commission or could possibly do to make this really happen, perhaps not in my lifetime, but at least in the lifetime of younger colleagues?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U78	Thank you for a very good and difficult question. In the next budget period, almost half of the funding in my area of responsibility will go to this project. This is because, as I said, there may be technological solutions to help us cover our energy needs in such a way that hazardous waste, such as nuclear waste, does not occur. The ITER project is a very good example of how we can work together to find new solutions with countries with which day-to-day cooperation is not so common. Everything important is involved, the world's leading economic power and the goal is that we can see the results in 2035. In parallel, the countries involved in the ITER project are conducting their own tests and, if circumstances allow, I will probably have the opportunity to be present in Japan in the spring when they are testing their first plasma. So, indeed, we have a huge role to play in funding science to find out if there are any smarter solutions than those we already have on the market today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U79	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Kadri, it's very nice to have such a brilliant and wise discussion in this hall. Of course, no one doubts your competence, which gives a special shine to this discussion, but, of course, smart questions. I got one of those too. There has been a lot of talk in Estonia recently about the use of funds from the Fair Transfer Fund. What is the European Commission's view as to whether this money should be more widely used or indeed targeted specifically at Ida-Virumaa? Of course, I would like to thank our wise advisers for this question. The fair use of fair money from fair funds is something that always gives rise to stories that are sometimes legitimate. But I have a little other interest. Where is the European Commission and where is Ida-Virumaa, have they really stuck a flag over Sillamäe on their map? Is the European Commission's interest in Ida-Virumaa justified, and with what?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U81	Thank you, Viktor! Such a wise question even makes me awkward. But the question of where the resources must be directed is actually the answer in cooperation. If today's Heads of Government reach agreement on the next seven-year budget plan and the recovery fund, then it does not mean that on 1 January there will be a transfer to the Member States on a bill of lading to spend wherever you want. This means that Member States will then present their plan and start consultations, they will come up with their plan that they would like to do in a fair transition plan, and, more broadly, the recovery fund will have to present a concrete plan as a recovery plan. There are two conditions. These plans must be in line with the climate and energy plans already submitted, the 2030 plan, and they must be in line with the recommendations of the European semester. Nobody gives ready-made solutions to put this money in, because the regions are different, but there is strong advice to create jobs in this region with a smaller ecological footprint.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U82	Thank you very much, dear waitress. Thank you very much, colleagues, for asking questions. The time for questions is up. We thank the guest once again from afar for being here. The next presentation is from Hardi Murula, coordinator of the fair transition platform of the Association of Municipalities of Ida-Virumaa. It lasts up to 20 minutes. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U83	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I am very happy to be here in this honorable hall and to give a brief overview of Ida-Virumaa, which means a round of greens for us and what opportunities we would have with it. As we all know very well, since the times of the industrial revolution, the growth of the world's population and human well-being have been directly dependent on the use of fossil fuels. Over the last hundred years, the world's population has grown about four times, our so-called wealth or production 20 times and our greenhouse gas emissions 12 times. Estonia is not an exception either. So far, our well-being has been directly dependent on the use of fossil fuels. The countries of the world together have now decided that this paradigm needs to be changed. While, until now, greenhouse gas emissions have been reduced only in times of extremely serious crises, it is a war or a very deep economic crisis, then the Paris climate agreements would like to change it in such a way that the economy, or, say, our well-being, will remain, but the greenhouse gas emissions will be reduced in order to curb climate change. We, together with our European partners, have taken a further step forward. Not only do we want to reduce emissions, but we want to reduce it so that by 2050 Europe will be the first climate-neutral continent, but at the same time, this green agreement will create new growth and not reduce the well-being of our citizens, but rather the opposite. We are introducing new technologies that we can export elsewhere and thus grow our common wealth. And the goal is to reach zero for greenhouse gases. Not to zero, but to neutrality: as much as we issue, as we bind. Economic growth would not then be linked solely to the use of resources. The third principle is that no region must stand aside from this turn of events, that it is not the case that someone wins and someone loses, but that the winners should be in all regions. And just as the previous speaker, the Commissioner for Energy, said: the core of the Green Treaty is still that our economy must change. At any cost, stop greenhouse gas emissions and go back to the Stone Age in this way, this is not the goal. The goal is still new technologies, new growth, competitiveness. Here was the question of how we have been in Estonia so far. If you look at these new tables, yes, Estonia has at least been a 'European champion' in terms of cutting, both in the field of energy and in absolute terms. As has been said, 70% of the European Union's greenhouse gas emissions come from the energy sector, and there we have been the biggest cuts. Compared to 1990, our so-called net emissions reduction has been the highest in Europe. However, if we look at the reduction that has taken place over the 2005-2019 period, this has not been so significant. That's where we're more of a center. But generally, as the previous speaker said, we do not have to be ashamed of our cutbacks or the efforts we have made so far. Rather, my message for the region would be that perhaps in the meantime we should take a breath, keep a calm plan, and not always raise our bar to a higher and higher level and thus keep ourselves under constant pressure, whether we can do it or not. There's a different side of the coin. As I said at the beginning, the population, the welfare and the greenhouse gas emission are all, like, straight up. And, unfortunately, just as greenhouse gases have decreased, our county's population has also decreased dramatically. And not only the population, but actually our relative well-being for many years. The contribution of Ida-Viru County to the wealth of all Estonia has been smaller and GDP per capita has also been falling all the time. That is why we have been, let us say, the side of the sufferer, unfortunately, when it comes to halting climate change. However, as has been said, the European Green Agreement is a goal, no one is contesting it. Of course, we must strive for this together. We have one earth, we don't have many. We must be able to organise the economy in the future so that we use less fossil fuels and less greenhouse gases. And therefore, as has been said, the Commission has proposed a fair transition mechanism for such regions with carbon intensive economies. When we started discussing what this transition is for us at the beginning of the year, we must actually first and foremost consider that we cannot continue in such a way as to reduce our population at an early pace. I do not want to state here that the population of Ida-Viru County will not decrease in the next ten years. Between 120,000 and 115000, Statistics Estonia's forecast is, and it's probably going to be like this. There's nothing to do, we're no exception. In most of Estonia's so-called peripheral regions, the population declines. But it shouldn't happen at an early pace. Our paradox is that the role of the oil shale sector in the economy of the county, when you look at absolute employment, is not the greatest. Unfortunately, the oil shale sector has the best paid jobs, with the highest added value. If we take it out of one sector, all the other sectors will suffer. The service sector and other things are also suffering. There may be a domino effect that we find very difficult to stop. Figuratively speaking, we should always try to do things with a three or four size bigger jacket or cut him down. Therefore, we really hope that our transition will be such that our residents, with whom we can make this transition, will be left, that our share of the wealth of the Estonian state will increase, that our wages will increase and that our municipalities will have enough budget to meet these challenges. Otherwise, it would be a clear failure. When we started planning this process together with the Ministry of Finance at the beginning of the year, we decided that we would not make a separate national strategic document for the implementation of fair transition activities, either national or regional, but that we would give more content and more strength to the strategic documents already in place. As we know, there are already quite a number of strategic documents in Estonia. The territorial plan for a fair transition would then consist of the development strategy of Ida-Viru County, which is a common document of local governments, and the action plan of the Government of the Republic of Ida-Virumaa, which was also being changed. I must say that we have, unfortunately, already had good cooperation with the former Minister of Public Administration in putting together this plan, both with the Ministry of Finance and, more specifically, with the Minister of Public Administration. I hope that this good cooperation will continue with the new Minister for Public Administration. This cooperation has been constructive, but there have, of course, been differences of opinion. In order to manage this transition process, local authorities have set up a fair transition platform, which is a broader form of involvement with more than 40 representative organisations, including oil shale companies as well as other companies, trade unions, the municipality of course, research institutions. We have also proposed to the political parties represented in the Riigikogu to participate in this process in order to get the widest possible involvement. For its part, the Minister of State Administration has set up a steering committee in which regional development organisations as well as business organisations and trade unions are involved. That is how we have tried to meet together on this plan. At the very first meeting at the beginning of the summer, when the first corona wave had ended, we stated that when we talk about the transition, the transition must be longer and on the basis of a specifically agreed plan, so that we do not have to deal with any kind of crisis management every year. What's important is that the decline in our county's population slows down. Otherwise, we will no longer have the people with whom to implement this fair transition plan. Unfortunately, the energy sector, which is one of the main players in our county in the economic environment, is very long. It needs to be planned for a long time, the investments are huge. It needs to be rebuilt for a long time and cannot be closed overnight, as happened in May 2019 due to the very rapid rise in the price of the CO2 quota. It is not possible to reorganize overnight or replace anything. One of the main points of the transition is that we cannot view this transition in such a way that we finish the existing thing first and then see what happens. Then there's nothing left. Then there are only big problems that need to be dealt with. A new economy, a new business, must be built alongside this sector today. And then quietly, based on regulations and also changes in the economic environment, the share of the oil shale sector in the economy in our county is decreasing. Once again, I would stress that we are still saving humanity, not narrowly into the county, with this whole green turn. Our people are also very important to us: the well-being of these people must be maintained so that they can find the motivation to stay in our county and contribute to this transition. That's the assumption that must be preserved, otherwise we might have a terrible plan and enough money, but who are we going to do all this with? And there are some other assumptions that should be maintained so that we can carry out the transition process calmly. Here the question has already been raised as to how the Republic of Estonia wishes to invest in fossil fuels. The production of oil from oil shale and the production of electricity, which are actually completely different things, have somehow been put together in Estonia. Today's main focus, when we talk specifically about the so-called coal regions and also the region of Ida-Viru, is still that fossil fuels have been used in these regions or are used to produce electricity. But everything about the production of liquid fuels must also change. This sector must also change, but it is not yet in focus today. This will also require significantly more time. There is no point in stigmatising our domestic liquid fuel production as long as we all go to gas stations every day to refuel our cars with fossil fuel. And we use it as long as we need all the goods used by oil shale oil in containers and other ships. Of course, with regard to oil shale oil production, if we still want to achieve climate neutrality, the use of fossil fuels in shipping must also decrease. But today, to act at an early pace, to say that tomorrow it also needs to be shut down, in my opinion, it is not fair. We cannot claim today that liquid fuels produced elsewhere, whether in Saudi Arabia, Nigeria or Russia, are somehow more environmentally friendly than our own oil shale oil. At the same time, I do not want to argue that oil shale oil production is some sort of green economy. No, no, it is still a heavy industry that has a significant environmental impact and, of course, every mineral extraction has an irreversible effect. Electricity production has already been discussed. In fact, one part of the Green Contract is that electricity should in future replace fossil fuels and natural gas wherever they are used. Actually, we're kind of in front of a paradox here. One way or another, we really need it. We also have a completely brand-new Auvere power plant, but, as we know, it is largely out of the market because of the same price. I am glad that, just this morning, when I was driving here, I heard the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure in radio news saying that the importance of Auvere Station in ensuring Estonia's energy security will last at least until 2030. This is awfully important, because electricity is like a physical thing, as the head of the Environment Committee said, you're pressing the switch, and electricity is there. And if it doesn't exist, it just doesn't. It is very difficult for us to switch to other businesses in our region. Above all, it would be logical for the oil shale sector to be transferred to another industrial sector, but they all actually need electricity to operate. But the future should be reserved for renewable production resources. Yes, in Estonia wind energy has not developed as quickly as it could have, and if our geographical position were to be expected. Hopefully this will continue and there will also be solar energy, but we do not have a sufficient power generation unit based on renewable energy in Estonia today. So still, probably in the next few decades, the Auvere station will be very important, whether we are using carbon capture technology with its own problems or whether we are using more biomass. But, unfortunately, without this yes, we can't make that round of greens either. What is more, not interesting, but one nuance is that, in fact, all the greens need immense amounts of mineral resources, especially metals. And assume that all this mining and the enrichment of these metals will take place somewhere else and we'll already have finished production, nicely packaged, and we'll just put it all up, is naive. Well, we're gonna have to do our part, too. These quantities are really immeasurable. For example, it has been claimed that in order to make the green turn a reality, mankind will have to use more copper over the next 30 years than has been the case in history. These are very large quantities. Fortunately, or unfortunately, all the resources known in Estonia are located in Viru County. Unfortunately, their systematic investigation has not been underway for decades. Now it has started in recent years on the initiative of the Estonian Geological Service, but it all takes time. So in 20 years' time, if we had both knowledge and a social agreement for the introduction of one or another mineral resource, but we do not have on-site competence for this, which means not only miners, but also the university, the engineering department, we should start buying in this competence, which no one obviously wants. A green turn cannot take place without mineral resources and mining competence should be maintained. It is already unique elsewhere in Europe; very few countries still have it. A little money, too. I have a slide here about the beginning of the summer when this fair transfer fund was the biggest. The final agreement wasn't that rosy for us. But perhaps more important than this fair transfer support fund, whose money can be provided as direct grants, is actually for us this average pillar, or possible loans to private investors. Of course, there is also an innovation fund open to all businesses and a modernisation fund. I understand I only have 30 seconds left. The difficulty of the problem in the oil shale sector is, in fact, that we have there not only the wages of the Ida-Viru region, but also very high-paid jobs, taking into account Estonia's average wage. At present, we have no other jobs like this in the region. This means that people who have a well-established standard of living are simply forced to look elsewhere for work with such a salary. This is a factor in which we must necessarily intervene, because otherwise emigration will result. Our vision, which is slightly different from the view of the Government of the Republic, is that most or 90% of the resources of the Fair Transition Support Fund should be directed specifically to the development of entrepreneurship, including research and development. And for the sake of the living environment, maybe we could use 10%. So we wouldn't disperse that money very much in general. In addition, we should be able to secure a regional loan in Ida-Virumaa to help develop entrepreneurship. Support is one thing, regional credit capacity is another. Right now, it's not really very good. Our pillars on which this transition should be based would be subsidies. But we realise that these subsidies are quite small and we cannot compete with large countries by making some very large investments, à la Tesla, for example, the factory that is currently being built on Germany. We need to be smart and flexible when using subsidies. Credit opportunities are also important, but we should not forget the regulations, many of which start in this hall. While we can say that okay, CO2 regulations are largely agreed at European level, we still have the right in our own country, even with labour taxes for example, to allow certain regional differences that would contribute to the development of entrepreneurship and ensure that, together with the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, our prosperity and economic growth do not decrease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U84	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U85	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for a thorough review and for introducing local circumstances. You mostly focused on keeping the current sectors working and on a proposal that should be continued. Obviously, in a time shortage, we did not mention the vision of the future, which you have probably discussed. My question is, what is your vision, what kind of companies should you have, or what is the future of Ida-Viru, which way you would like to go? What are the activities that are going to replace the oil shale industry at one point? And the other thing we could talk about a little bit more about is regulation. Are there any specific proposals for the Riigikogu and the Government? An example is given of Ragn-Sells oil shale ash processing plant, which deprives the municipality of the pollution charge. It's like it's pulling a brake. Are there any ideas that we should discuss more seriously and perhaps change direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U86	Thank you. First of all, what is the future of Ida-Viru? There is no silver bullet to replace the oil shale sector. We must be very flexible and also very open to all companies, both from Estonia and outside Estonia, who wish to start their activities either in Ida-Viru County or extend their activities to Ida-Virumaa. Today, however, we are seeing the greatest opportunity, particularly in the manufacturing sector, because we have enough workforce in the region that has experience in the industry. These people are used to working in industry and they also want to work in industry. There is certainly one possibility for our region. But I absolutely do not rule out any action. We must be flexible and resourceful. We do not have the kind of vision that we now want, as I mentioned earlier, to send Tesla's factory to help us all out of trouble. Many regions that have made this transition, such as England, have finished with coal. They got a big Motorola factory, they went on for seven years, then they shut the doors and they were back in the same place. We wouldn't want to do Ida-Viru 2.0 that there's another big industry on which we all depend. The future, however, is that entrepreneurship is diverse, and it takes action in different areas. Now, as far as regulations are concerned, this was the following question, right? just, yes, in the same way, these CO2 regulations have still been agreed with our European partners, and they will do as they have been agreed. However, as far as the oil shale industry is concerned, there is a concern that we are in a completely unique situation in the European Union: there are no domestic liquid fuels produced anywhere else. That's why it's just our problem, and it just can't get out. At the same time, I think that the European Union will not be able to replace 100 percent of liquid fuels over the next 20 years, but will be pursued. But the same thing that I pointed out earlier: there is no point in being ashamed of this production. It should still be possible to make this sector greener and keep it in operation for as long as it remains competitive on the global market. Oil prices are, of course, very volatile and it is not easy. In the case of regulations, I see that they concern, above all, domestic taxes, are favourable taxes on labour or some other advantages. Because the main objective that we have is that we need to create high-wage jobs. It is not good if we give small support with one hand and with the other hand we start taxing businesses from the next day. Maybe we could give them a little breather, so for three to five years there would be some kind of social tax ceiling for a certain amount, but jobs will be created at a slightly higher wage level. This would not be a cost to the state budget, as income tax would still be collected both in the state budget and in local governments. This is perhaps, above all, a measure that could be used. We really cannot trump Poland or Germany with our subsidies and other money. In the next 20 years, Germany plans to allocate EUR 45 billion from its own public resources for the changeover. We do not have such opportunities, so we need to be smart and find solutions that depend on us.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U87	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U88	Thank you. Honourable waitress! It is undoubtedly that this transition is fair, extremely important, and the socio-economic issues that the transition entails certainly deserve very thorough consideration. Your report somehow gave the impression, unwittingly, that there is someone who thinks that from tomorrow all existing oil shale industries should be shut down. I mean, no one really asked for that. At the same time, it is very questionable whether, in a situation where the oil shale industry still needs to be abandoned in the next decades, it is reasonable to make new investments for public money. That question's been up. But my question to you is this. I know that, however, people in the oil shale sector also think mostly that it would be reasonable to agree, in cooperation with the state and industry and the region, on the year in which the oil shale is actually abandoned. This would allow everyone to make reasonable plans, not to think every year again that they do not know what will happen now. All parties would then have clarity on how and by what time the so-called exit will take place. How do you assess this and why Estonia, as one of the few countries, has not reached this agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U89	Thank you. Of course, it is very important that we have clarity. So far, the public sector has given such signals that this will not happen immediately. At the same time, as I saw on one slide, the message is that there will be no rapid exit from the oil shale industry, but in reality more than 1,000 jobs in the sector, or almost one quarter of jobs, have disappeared. Such uncertainty is a very serious problem. Even the current health crisis in our county is linked to the uncertainty that you do not know what will happen tomorrow, what will happen in a year's time. People have developed mild apathy. Of course, a specific date with a specific plan would be significantly better than the suspicion that maybe this will happen tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U90	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U91	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Thanks for the report. Undoubtedly, in order not to fail, we need to talk, as one slide says nicely, about the transition and about the fact that there are a number of important things going on. I'm asking about the population, and I'm asking you for clarification or clarification. You are talking about the decline of the population, but also about the age structure of the remaining population. It is, in fact, crucial from the investor's point of view how many younger people, people of working age, exist in the county. This is, in fact, the key question: what is the value of Ida-Viru County in the eyes of the investor: if he wanted to bring his capital there, create jobs there, what is the competence that is being offered? And in this key, I ask why the government has not supported what you said: that most of this money actually goes to support entrepreneurship and research and development?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U92	Thank you. Yes, we cannot be very satisfied with the structure of our population. There is currently a migration survey at the University of Tartu, which also analysed how our county has been experiencing both external and immigration in recent years. Yes, we can say that in the main, the decline in population is expected by Statistics Estonia to be due to natural growth, but we also continue to have a negative balance on migration. At the same time, the decline has actually stopped, and rather slowly the minus begins to decrease. We will see that, in the future, it is thanks to these new and competitive companies that we will also have positive immigration. But what we are offering today to investors is, above all, the employee who is used to working from eight to five in an industrial business and who really values this job. It is already a disappearing phenomenon in the modern world and it is not easy to find such workers. The bigger problem is perhaps it is already a little over the re-training of middle-aged workers. Here we should also do more work together with the public sector to explain what the grassroots for which it is needed and why retraining is needed, why it is not possible for me to stretch to retirement in my already comfortable workplace. Efforts must certainly be directed there. At the same time, we have two colleges in the county, vocational training centres. There's a resource that can help us. In the spring we formed the Research Council of Ida-Viru County, which must help us with the science-based problem-solving process and with our advice at all. I'm sure there's a lot of challenge here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U93	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for this presentation. I would like to remind both the rapporteur and the hall that in 2018 the need for an oil shale energy exit strategy was discussed under the popular initiative. In the same year, the Reform Party launched an initiative to set up a fund for the future where money could be channelled so that this reorientation could be carried out through pollution charges and also through RMK's dividends. And I very much agree that if we had put this plan in place two years ago, it would be much easier for us today to move forward with this very fair transition fund. But let me give you an example of my question. You said you were expecting investment. Of course, but regrettably today, these regulations, which, through pollution charges, generate income for the local government, for example, for the same Ragn-Sells ash treatment plant, show that there is a bottleneck here. As a result of this EUR 80000, a very, very large foreign investment is not coming. Have you discussed this and what solution do you see here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U95	Thank you. Yes, there are no good solutions in this particular Ragn-Sells case. As we know, planning activities in Estonia are the exclusive competence of municipalities. Neither the Association of Municipalities nor any neighbouring municipality can go and tell one municipality that you must plan or issue building permits in this way. But there's probably something you can do about the regulations. The same idea that I made before referring to taxes: it has been said a lot that the reason why local authorities do not particularly want the development of entrepreneurship is that, above all, with industrial companies, they are facing all kinds of problems. Noise disturbances and other disturbances may occur due to transport flows. Perhaps it would still help if some part of the VAT or income tax were linked to the location of a particular company. Then local governments would have to deny it, our local authorities would still be quite poor, with a financial incentive to allow new businesses to be set up and tolerated. I remembered that I did not answer the previous question, why is it that 90% of this fair transfer fund has not gone there? It's unfortunate to me, too. Businesses and trade unions also say that we could still try to do something with this little money. In fact, this 340 million or 350 million is not some very large amount of money, given the current volume of this sector. We should focus it more. But unfortunately right now, I have a feeling that in Estonia, perhaps with this little specific purpose, the money allocated is intended to solve all the other problems that exist in the county. For God's sake, we need hospitals and roads and transport everything. But by the end of the day, if there's no business with high-paid workers, what good are these empty buildings? At the same time, we see and I welcome the fact that the local government leaders really support it. They also see that this money should go first and foremost into business and that all other structural instruments should also contribute to the transition and the green turn in the implementation of this whole green turn-around concept, not the other way around, as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U96	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U97	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good performer! First of all, you have been dragging these debates on the future of Ida-Viru by the Association of Municipalities of Ida-Virumaa for a year. Thank you so much for this. It has been a great job that you have done in a very balanced and reasonable way. But my question consists of two sides. Today we are talking about 340 million as some kind of miracle money that should save all of Ida-Viru County. You just said it wasn't like that. It has certainly been discussed which other instruments could be involved in the development of Ida-Viru, especially then the European Union. That's one half of the question. And the other side: the big question is not only that the funds for a fair transition fund are distributed between three counties, not one county, but also what proportions should be: how much of 340 million should go to create jobs, how much to improve the living environment. What is your view about the proportions of sharing this money: for example, 90% for industry or 30% for the living environment?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U98	Thank you. As I said earlier, the opinion of municipalities, business organisations and trade unions is that 90% of the fund's money should go to business activities and 10% to be used in the interests of the living environment. But really, that's not enough. In our view, perhaps the most important thing in putting together a transitional plan is that we can guarantee the possibility of a regional loan. Often, our attempt to enter the new business area ends when they take their business plan and then walk through the bank's door. They will be denied: yes, everything is very nice, but be good, make your own production or company anywhere near Tallinn or Tartu where land and real estate costs. Unfortunately, we have a failure in the real estate market and we must be able to solve it with various means of intervention. Then we can succeed. We have set ourselves the goal of 340 or a little plus a million with this, we would be able to mobilise nearly EUR 1 billion in investment over the next ten years, not only in industry, but also in other businesses. But industry is certainly what we see that this transition can be the smoothest and easiest, especially with regard to the oil shale sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U99	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Dear coordinator Hardi Murula! From your presentation I concluded that your most important role is to manage changes in Ida-Virumaa due to the imminent end of oil shale production. One thing made me squeak my ears or two things. One was that local government leaders did not favour entrepreneurship. This is a completely changing position, and very easy to change. As former head of government, I can say that. But I want to know the answer to that question. You have mentioned tax distinctions on several occasions. How has the present coalition responded to this statement, and do you have examples from other parts of the world that it has worked? Generally speaking, tax distinctions in such a small country are not a magic wand, it is my position. But, yeah, is there a government position?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U101	Thank you. I'm not taking on this great role as a changer. It is still my role to coordinate the cooperation of this platform and to try to find some medium that suits everyone. Let's hope it works. However, as far as tax differences are concerned, we currently have a regional business plan, or plan B, in the context of the development strategy of the county, which kind of enterprise could be developed in the county in addition to the oil shale sector. In the course of this work, this proposal for possible tax differentiation has actually come up. We have not formally addressed the government with this proposal. But are there any examples in other parts of the world? In Poland, there is such a great city as Łódz, where there was once, already at the beginning of the 20th century, a very large manufactory. This, too, basically ended up in the 1990s, just like Kreenholm in Narva one day just shut himself down. There is a highly impressive service and leisure centre developed from the manufacturer. But this is only part of the reboot of the city. There they have basically the same industrial areas as we are developing them in our region. And they have 18 different tax schemes in three industrial areas. Average labour taxes are 15%. When you hear this and look at their location on the map of Europe, you wonder why one or the other entrepreneur should choose Estonia or even more narrowly Ida-Virumaa. There are certainly regional tax distinctions and success stories. Of course, any distinctions, any subsidies may cause such dark activities and exploitation, but it would not be reasonable for us to assume immediately that if we make some tax distinction, a company in Tallinn will write itself to Ida-Virumaa and then move on. It still needs to be seen as a regional policy measure. As for managing changes from my own point of view, a few weeks ago the Riigikogu Trade Union Support Group made a small conference, and there I pointed out that the implementation of a fair transition is both for Ida-Viru and, more generally, for Estonia, such as the regional political exam. We can say that promoting regional life only by developing social objects will one day fail. It doesn't help if we build a new schoolhouse or a light traffic road if the store and the post office disappear. In fact, regional policy should be primarily the development of competitive entrepreneurship. If we can do this, everything else will come with us in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U102	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U103	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Being a little familiar with the work that has been done in Ida-Virumaa over a year or a little less than a year, and with the enthusiasm that entrepreneurs have proposed ideas and tried to think through, namely, future solutions, it must be said that it is well-liked, very impressive. I am thinking of the enthusiasm and enthusiasm that entrepreneurs have approached. My question concerns what was decided by the government last Thursday. How much did you have to say about it and how much was taken into account in the proposals made by Ida-Virumaa? The Fair Transition Fund is designed to support Ida-Virumaa in exiting oil shale energy, creating new jobs. The measures approved by the government include EUR 35 million for the Narva Hospital. The Narva Hospital certainly needs support, but the question is whether a fair transfer fund designed to give up oil shale is the right place to take the money. Did this proposal come from you or was it negotiated with you?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U104	Thank you. No, this proposal has not come from the county, but no doubt the Narva Hospital needs support. And so did the City of Narva's proposals for a fair transfer fund. There were also 400 million, which involved various investment objects. Of course, our social infrastructure also needs a lot of money, but if we do so at the expense of this money, we will fail in the transition process. Similarly, today I have explained to our good neighbours both in West Viru and in Jõgeva that I am not against you, or Ida-Viru County is not against you, but we are on our side. We can't take it the way there's money to be used up. If we take it this way and blur the focus, it's very likely, unfortunately, it's not going to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U105	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U106	Thank you. I'm sure I'll have a different opinion with the questioner. Miners have ruined their health while doing their jobs, and I think it is fair that they receive high-quality medical care in modern conditions. So it could be part of a fair transition. But my question continues with the previous question and concerns the agreement on a specific transitional period. As you well know, in the course of these discussions in most of the countries where this type of agreement has been made, it is generally the case that, once the dispute has finally been agreed on this deadline, things will start to move at a different pace and with a different system. Because then, in terms of funding, all parties have a time perspective ahead of the private sector and everyone else. How possible do you think that in Estonia, however, the parties will be able to agree in the course of this process that we have one clear deadline that is equally understandable to everyone?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U107	Thank you. I think it's entirely possible. It just has to be realistic. It must be realistic in the same sense that it is not a question of closing down one production plant or another, but that we can build something along with it in advance. And the other thing is that so far businesses have made their investments on the basis of existing regulations. If this agreement is amended in any way, there may be a legitimate claim for compensation. And then the question arises as to whether it makes sense for us to contribute public money in the interests of the potential future revenues of one or another company instead of finding a solution for how that company would continue to function. And just as KPMG came out of the analysis here at the beginning of the week, it would make a very significant contribution to gross domestic product and tax revenue. So this compromise is certainly possible, but it must be realistic. In some of the smaller rounds of discussions, we have already reached the point of making it suitable for everyone, for businesses, trade unions and environmental associations. They all realize that if this goal remains that we are climate-neutral, oil production of oil shale will not last forever. We can make the same deal as Poland, can't we? I don't know... But I'm sure it's possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U108	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U109	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You spoke very well about the need for processing industry and competitive entrepreneurship in the region, so that this region can gain more vitality, but while some entrepreneurs do such a timid experiment, the municipality tells them that this is not the place of this company. Have you discussed this Narva-Jõesuu case in the local government association and what suggestions did the local government association offer both this local government and the entrepreneurs how to proceed? In fact, if we look at the wider picture, for example, what is happening around Tallinn, the municipalities have been very smooth in solving all the issues with the social charges paid by entrepreneurs in order to develop infrastructure in a particular municipality. This EUR 80000 in addition to a multimillion investment does not seem to be a burden.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U110	Thank you. No, we have not discussed this in the municipal union. And neither the entrepreneur nor the city of Narva-Jõesuu brought it to the table. Indeed, I think this is also a regrettable case, but the municipality takes decisions under the planning and construction law in its own interests and with exclusive competence. However, I very much hope that there will be a possible solution to this particular case, in which all the parties will be satisfied by the end of the day and yet this investment will come. We have been waiting for such investments for a very long time. Oil shale ash was known to be dangerous ice for a very long time, and it was enough that oil shale ash turned into conventional waste when potential investors were already in place to use it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U111	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U112	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Honourable waitress! It would also be clarified that, at least in my view, the oil shale exit strategy certainly does not have a list of closures and does not mean that they will then come from the waves of compensation. On the contrary, this plan is to prevent it. It is certainly important to note why this is needed: precisely because it is to prevent these things. But I now ask you that you mentioned the market failure in the case of loans, the problem of access to capital. Has state support, for example, been under discussion through the guarantee of KredEx loans? KredEx has played a very large role during the crisis and has also provided a number of questionable subsidies. Has KredEx been through your discussions since you discussed the longer term?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U113	Thank you. Yes, in drawing up this fair transition plan, regional loans through KredEx have been identified as one of the possible interventions. Of course, the amount originally proposed by the Ministry of Finance is significantly smaller than what we think could be. There are no specific agreements yet, but we can see that there is a significant need for public intervention in order to ensure access to credit for certain companies. Otherwise, we will all play in one big playroom in the European Union, where capital is actually cheap and accessible, that is not a question. At the same time, we would like to do something specifically in Ida-Virus, but it would appear that capital not only is at a good price, but it is simply unattainable. That would be very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U114	Thank you. Unfortunately, we are out of time to answer the questions. I thank the honourable waitress very much. Now we're opening negotiations. Members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups may speak. At the request of the Centre Party Group, I propose to the Riigikogu that representatives of the political groups speak first. I have a small question: will Imre Sooäär speak on behalf of the Centre Party Group or Dmitri Dmitriev? Mr Dmitri Dmitriev, on behalf of the Group of the Centre Party, I would like to ask you to speak in the speech chair. But right, the line's a little different, but at least that's the question I learned. I would like to ask Mr Kisler to speak first on behalf of the Isamaa Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U115	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Thank you very much, Dmitri, for the opportunity for the Fatherland Group to speak first. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! As Commissioner Simson said at the beginning of his speech, the Green Agreement concerns all areas, including the whole economy, in order to make it cleaner and more competitive. Now, if you're trying to divide it up a little bit, I'd like to bring out three major areas to talk about. One is climate policy, the other is a circular economy and the third is a greener, less polluting, cleaner production, a cleaner economy at all. These areas, of course, are intertwined. To give an example here of biomethane production in Estonia, this is certainly a very good contribution to the circular economy, domestic production. In conclusion, however, it is more environmentally friendly and pursues climate policy objectives. There are many examples of embedding. If we go through these three areas lightly, I will start with the circular economy and, above all, address good colleagues. The Riigikogu now plays a major role here. Friends, we have amendments to the Waste Act behind us, changes to the packaging sector. They are in the Committee on the Environment. I have a serious request to the members of the Committee on the Environment: bring these drafts to this Chamber, we will discuss them! We need to take a lot of decisions to make it clear that businesses can invest there. This requires the adoption of these laws first. There is a need to transpose European Union directives, for example on the one-off use of plastics, for which agreements have been made in the European Union under the leadership of Estonia. So such a big request. Here is the matter behind the Riigikogu and let us move forward here, please! This is a great request from the Isamaa Group. We're waiting for clarity. More broadly, when it comes to less polluting production, resource efficiency, energy efficiency, this is certainly where the decisions concerning euro money play a major role. Here, the government also has the opportunity to direct private investment. The right-wing greening requires, above all, the creation of opportunities for entrepreneurs, not banning anything, orders. Entrepreneurship, including private initiative and private investment, is still developing the economy. We can really support knowledge-intensive investments here, we have these opportunities, we have these amounts, let us take them quickly and let us give our businesses opportunities. All the more so as Estonia has a very advanced start-up culture, a very good environment for start-up companies. This is demonstrated by all studies, confirmed by all experts. This is Estonia's new big opportunity: to come and make better use of all resources in the field of energy efficiency, to get a picture of new companies, new technologies and thus grow our economy and become international thanks to our solutions. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U116	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U117	Speaking of innovative technology, today there was an example of Ragn-Sells. Narva City Government simply refused to initiate the plan. [[There's something going on in the hall.]] Narva-Jõesuu, I'm sorry, Narva-Jõesuu City Government was simply refusing to initiate a plan to invest in Ragn-Sells. But when it comes to the interests of the municipality, the interest of the municipality is the livelihood of its inhabitants. I ask you this way: is it better to spend EUR 80,000 on the livelihood and livelihood of the unemployed, people with no income, and thus miss the opportunity to develop entrepreneurship in their own region? This is not only a matter of government, only of state institutions, but certainly also of local governments. Climate policy is one major issue. There are, of course, major areas: energy, where Estonia has great progress, transport, where we do not actually have any progress, let us be honest, and other, smaller areas, especially land use. We also have good opportunities in the area of land use. For example, greening abandoned peat fields, with which we can meet our climate policy objectives very well. There is not much investment, but we can use the euro money again. Let's do it! Let's put them to use! On the other hand, transport, as I mentioned. I do not see the good solutions that have been proposed here at the moment, this is serious work. Transport is a sector where our CO2 emissions are growing, especially in the case of private transport vehicles. Private cars are our biggest source of carbon emissions. And what is needed here is very coordinated action, because there is no one good magic wand to solve this problem. The third major area, of course, is energy, which is the largest source of carbon emissions in the European Union. Here we really, as Hardi Murula pointed out, are the largest carbon emission reduction agents. We have not explicitly banned anything for this, but CO2 quotas are working well. Last year, carbon emissions in our electricity industry decreased by more than 50% compared to the year before last. And this has been possible by means of completely economic measures. So don't spit on the old well until it's ready to build a new one. Let us take advantage of this opportunity in the field of energy security and Estonia's exports, as long as it is possible. But I agree that we should agree on a deadline and say it out loud. In Poland this year is 2049; in Germany it has been said that the last coal plant will be closed in 2038 if I am not mistaken. There must be a deadline ahead of us, then we will also give confidence to the private sector to invest, for example, in the oil industry. We know what's gonna happen. That should really be said. I agree that we need a minister, not a separate minister, but a minister, a member of the government to look at, to ask, who is responsible for climate policy in Estonia as a whole. And when we talk about energy security and security of supply, we will probably not be able to get into the creation of opportunities for nuclear energy in Estonia either if we want to produce electricity in Estonia. We like to talk about renewable energy. Estonia is very good, it fulfils the objectives of the European Union, it is one of the best in comparison with other Member States, but, my friends, I recall that more than 90% of our renewable energy comes from wood, not from wind farms or solar parks that are loved to talk about, but from wood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U118	Next, I would like to ask for the floor on behalf of the Group of the Dmitri Dmitriyev Centre Party. Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U119	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I thank all the speakers today, including Siimu, for the good ideas. I will also try to make a brief summary for myself. We are increasingly facing the issue of the European Green Agreement, according to which the entire European economy should be climate-neutral by 2050. In general, the grass is a very big challenge for Europe and for the world as a whole. Countries that are globally party to the Paris climate agreement plan to invest heavily in technologies that help to combat climate change. The EU budget and the re-launch plan will also help to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, of which about one third, or a little less than 30%, are targeted at injecting the funds needed to achieve climate objectives. It is no coincidence that we are discussing the possibilities of introducing hydrogen technology in Estonia in this large Chamber of the Riigikogu for the second day in a row. This is one way to save energy from renewable sources. The reduction of greenhouse gases must be ensured in many sectors of the economy, as Mr Kiisler said: industry, in addition to transport, buildings, agriculture and so on. Of course, the energy sector and industry, especially the oil shale industry, present the biggest challenge in Estonia, with different views and prospects for the future and with a very large regional role. We all know that the number of electricity generation capacities managed in Europe will decrease in the near future. In parallel, the aim is to reduce dependence on fossil fuels, which, in the case of growing consumption, poses a major question of how to ensure future security of electricity supply in the European Union's common market. We are asking how to ensure strategic electricity supply in Estonia in the future, while at the same time avoiding a sharp rise in the price of electricity and a decline in the competitiveness of our industry, as well as a decrease in energy security. In order to achieve the European Union's objective of climate neutrality in an efficient and fair manner, the European Commission has proposed the creation of a transitional mechanism including a fair transition fund. As Ambassador of Ida-Viru County, I must stop here for every transitional fund, because they have been tried to interpret differently. The European Parliament approved on 17 September an amendment to the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a Fair Transition Fund. It is stipulated that the objective of the Fair Transition Fund is to mitigate and compensate the adverse effects of the climate change transition by supporting the most affected territories and the workers concerned, and to promote a balanced socio-economic transition. This will combat social insecurity and an unstable business environment. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I would like to pay particular tribute to all the organisations in Ida-Virumaa, including the trade unions, who are very active in the future of this region, in developing entrepreneurship, in improving people's well-being and quality of life. I know that many of them would like to be in this Chamber to participate in our debate. I know that many were planning to come today to strengthen their message in front of the Riigikogu, but solidarity during the corona crisis requires a limitation of the large gatherings of people, and this led them to give us their message mainly in writing. I want to confirm from this Riigikogu remote that we hear your concerns. The most important issue in the region is jobs, namely high value-added and well-paid jobs, a competitive industry with export potential. I would also like to stress that I too support the view that 90% of the fair transition fund, which is intended to support the oil shale sector in the new European green policy, must go to diversify the economic structure of Ida-Viru County, including to modernise the industrial sector, create new jobs and develop entrepreneurship. Fortunately, I am not alone, there are ambassadors in the Centre Party Group who share this idea, and I hope that we will also be able to reach a broader consensus on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U120	Thank you. Honourable Riigikogu! Looking at the clock, I must say that our sitting is running out of time. We shall put the decision and vote on the extension of the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to extend the sitting until the item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U121	There were 17 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, no respondents and no abstentions. The session has been extended. Next, I would like to ask Mrs Raiki to speak on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U122	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, As Vice-Chairman of the Ida-Virumaa Support Group, I will also focus more on Ida-Viru issues and leave the green turn more in peace. As we all know, Ida-Viru County is now a large corona monster and certainly not for three weeks, but for several months. We have seen that Ida-Viru County's greatest concerns are information fields and hospital care issues. The hospital issues have been covered today as well. The biggest panic in Ida-Virumaa, however, is that of Ida-Virumaa next to its Nokia oil shale: it is a tourism sector. This is the very signicant green economy that is suffering the most today. Ida-Viru County demands our attention. And I very much support my colleague, Mr Kisler, who stressed that we are going to agree on the year in which Estonian oil shale mining will cease in 2030, 2040 or 31 December 2049, as many people in Ida-Virumaa hope, but we will agree on this. Recently, on 18 November, we organised a joint seminar with representatives of all political parties for the trade unions in Ida-Viru, where we discussed just these issues relating to the green turn. And we agreed there as representatives of all political parties: let's say this date out, let's stick to it and go in that direction. I believe that we are all very much in agreement on this, when we see the head nods of our fellow Members here too. If we don't, it's what happens to the corona monsters in Ida-Virumaa. We talked long and hard, didn't really want to decide the unpleasant issue of this county closure. Of course, the Russian-speaking region and God knows what they think. But now we've got the worst thing that could've happened. I will continue with what has been said by my good colleague, Dima Dmitriev. Very many organisations, not only trade unions, but also various industrial associations, such as the chemical industry, have said: give this money only to Ida-Viru County. Let's not fool Ida-Virumaa again and let's not say we take some money away. True, Aseri and Jõgeva are small, and maybe that proportion isn't that high. But not only are we talking about 340 million, we are talking about loans, which could extend to other regions, so the amount is much higher. And let us consider this general desire that most of the money, however, should go to job creation. It's a general wish. I have rarely seen so much consensus in East Viru matters as in the hail of letters that came from different organisations last afternoon. As for the future of Ida-Viru County, we also have good signs. Yesterday, when the Estonian architectural achievements were decided, two Narva buildings received the highest recognition of the school building and Narva Museum. This suggests that Narva could be the European Capital of Culture in 2036 or 2037. A programming school will be opened in Jõhvi. Who would have believed it a few years ago that a completely new kind of educational establishment would be opened in Jõhvi! We believe in the future of Ida-Viru County. My request is that we think green about East Viru, but let's think big. Let's retable Narva for the establishment of an international IT academy! It seems like a crazy idea to build it somewhere in Kreenholm, put it there, I don't know, 50 or 70 million euros. But we are taking advantage of Estonia's reputation as an IT state and we are taking advantage of this institution of higher education! We are going this way to prepare Narva as the largest city in Ida-Virumaa to become the European Capital of Culture! As we deal with Ida-Viru, the image of Ida-Viru County will also improve. True, he'll always be too close to our eastern neighbor's border, but that's the way it is. And we're fighting the market failure Hardi Murula called! Really, real estate is cheap in Ida-Virumaa, but let's make sure that Ida-Virumaa is well and attractive to invest. 80000 people have left Ida-Virumaa during the restored Estonian era. It's too much. Let's make Ida-Virumaa with good green ideas again! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U123	Next, please speak on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party in Yoko Alender's speech chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U124	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, who have stayed here! In a way, it looks like there's going to be an opositing assembly here. To those members of the Central Party who could not agree with government policy here, I say that if you want Jüri Ratas' phone number, we can transmit it. But now to the substance. I really liked Katri's idea: let's think green, let's think big. It seems to me that we really need to strengthen our conviction that we can do this. Firstly, if the convener of a debate on a matter of national importance is represented in a two-member Chamber, it seems that there really is little of this belief. So let's try to strengthen it! The greatest value in the eyes of the Estonian population is nature, according to value surveys, and that means that voters support us in this. The planet is on fire on the other side, and the ice is melting on our side. Estonia remains among the 10 largest carbon footprint countries in the world. We are proud to be abandoning the Soviet legacy, but yet we are not able to agree with certainty when, how, what we are doing instead, but to deal with a little bit of detail. Edgar Savisaar recently said that for some reason no one is dealing with the future of the Estonian state. In the European Union, we have the highest per capita CO2 emissions. What were the odds? Indeed, in 2018 the development of a strategy for the exit of oil shale energy was already discussed as part of the public initiative. This strategy would be precisely what would determine how to proceed. Not what to close, but how to continue, which guarantees these high-paid jobs, to provide security for the private sector, the population, businesses, workers and, of course, to put the country's direction in place. One option that concerns the state budget and was missed, which was not supported, is the green bonds that could have been used. However, we do not yet have the conviction today that this is an economy that is competitive, the green economy. We've gone this way, as if we're still alive for a while, still putting wood in boilers, asking for renewable energy support for burning wood in boilers. This isn't a round of grass. Unfortunately, we also have a Minister for the Environment who is not yet convinced of the human role in climate change. Maybe he'll soon be convinced, we hope indeed. Now, about some of the things that have really been on the board of the Committee on the Environment. The Packaging and Waste Act. Studies show that people do not really have confidence in this too. The volume of sorting has decreased over the last few years, because indeed, we know that all the garbage will eventually collapse into a large part of the furnace. This is something that needs to be changed. There is certainly a need to increase recycling. Personally, I believe that if at least four different types of purely sorted waste are removed from your home, we can make products from these wastes again, actually recycle them, that they will become raw material. We agreed in the Committee on the Environment already in the first working days that we need to find a solution to this problem, which we are now seeing in connection with this attempt to introduce 600 million tonnes of oil shale waste. I mean Narva-Jõesuu and Ragn-Sells. We need to find a way to motivate local authorities. It is not enough that we say from this remote control that these jobs, these investments, are your interest, dear local government. We also need to show our interest in some way. Indeed, we are lagging behind Lithuania, for example, when it comes to the development of sea wind parks. One reason here is also that there are no agreements between the local government and the initiators of these large, necessary and innovative projects. We need to take greater steps and show from this house that we actually believe, we are convinced that the grass is the right thing and that Estonia can do it. The last thing we can do is not mention the forest and biodiversity...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U125	Would the waitress like an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U126	Yeah, thanks! Sorry, I forgot to ask! What is RMK's role? This is certainly a question that has been a matter for many Estonian people lately, when they have been disturbed by cuttings in areas of elevated public interest in the state forest. If we continue at the same rate, then indeed, in ten years' time, all harvested trees, including areas of elevated public interest, have been cut from our common property, the Estonian forest. I think it is high time to raise the question of what is the point of RMK's dividends, which have been taken on an increasing scale in recent years. In recent times, perhaps even 60 million have gone from there to simply cover the fixed costs of the state budget. Perhaps these dividends could go to a fund of the future that would help us to implement this green teat, both in Ida-Virumaa and elsewhere. But, of course, Ida-Viru County is the most important thing in this area. These solutions must be found, it is high time. This really concerns young people most personally, it is their future, their future home, for which we have been entrusted here today. But I think we can do it and we can do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U127	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U128	Good manager! Honourable Riigikogu! In recent months, we have organised round tables of opinion leaders and business associations in the Office of Business Diplomacy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, discussing what business diplomacy steps Estonia should take in the coming years so that Estonia's exports and the volume of foreign investment in Estonia will increase. In these collections of ideas, it has been said that Estonia has to focus on its priorities. By doing a little bit of everything, we're finally not doing much at least meaningfully. There's not enough resources to deal with everything. Fragmentation will eventually become a waste in time. There's a need for cores around which to regroup. That's the mind that's been questioned by almost everyone. We should concentrate our activities both in developing the country's image and in planning support measures so that we can create synergies and pool common resources in some areas and then develop them speedily. And these areas, in turn, would attract the rest of the economic sectors. All sectors need to find smart links to the cores in order to boost the collective image. What could Estonia be the cores around which society could be concentrated and all efforts to focus on it? Traditionally, of course, this has been the image of our digital state, but what you can deny is that the image of the digital state is beginning to fade quietly. We have rested on our laurels, and many other countries have come ahead of us. If we don't make an effort here, we're gonna lose in competition. According to the European Union's DESI index, The Digital Economy and Society Index, we have already fallen to seventh place. Many countries outside the European Union have also gone ahead with e-solutions. According to business associations, the image of Estonia in the future could be a green digital state. This would be a new vision that would help bring together the efforts of both the state and the entrepreneurs to create more rapid development opportunities for Estonia, which would increase competitiveness. Since half of Estonia is covered with forest anyway, we already own this green display, both visually and organicly, among the countries of the world. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has just had a virtual visit to Iceland with a business delegation, where Iceland introduced a mobile driving licence in addition to other solutions, which also works as an identity document. There is no need to carry a driving licence in Estonia, but if we go to Omniva to get the package, for example, or we have to prove our age at the store, we cannot do so on a mobile phone. We can identify ourselves in a bank with a mobile ID and transfer millions, but it is not possible to identify a person on the street with a mobile phone in Estonia, as Iceland now has. This is just one example where we are already behind competitors. We lose thousands of IDs a year. Cell phones are lost significantly less. We could use a mobile ID, too. The ID-card comes with a handbag of cards, anyways, full of cards, the solution of the past century is actually. Thousands of lost cards also carry a lot of plastic, which is also not compatible with the green view. Just an example. The green economy may also appear surprisingly where we do not expect it, for example in the chemical industry. Who'd think the chemical industry could be green? But one year of entrepreneur laureates, Krimelte, who deals with construction foam, have been heating houses around the world. According to the owner of the company Jaan Puurai, they recently discovered to themselves that they have been on the green road for years because their solutions help to increase the insulation class of buildings, which is nothing more than a green solution. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U129	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U130	In fact, all industries have something to do with green, if they are to decipher and map it and implement it in the common market for Estonia's success. There are many examples. The biggest brake on the green economy has so far been high prices. Green management is much more expensive for businesses and therefore not profitable. Who pays the difference? When we look at energy production, the difference is that we all pay off together in the form of green energy charges. It should be considered what initiatives should also be proposed to the European Union to make those countries in Europe that react more slowly to the green turn and get something back from it. Cooperation with the Euro Commissioner, with whom a common vision could be drawn up, would certainly be helpful here. I suggest that the green digital state could become Estonia's new cores, as well as a slogan, which would help to strengthen Estonia's image on foreign markets, increase exports and competitiveness, bring tourists here and provide Estonia with new growth opportunities. If we make a hero with love, not for a bird or by order, our chances of success will be greater. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U131	Thank you. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U132	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, We're talking about a green turn. At all, we abuse words such as 'turn' and'revolution'. Last I heard, the revolution is about processing hamburgers or something. Revolutions, real revolutions start in people's heads. And when we talk about the green revolution, first of all we need to understand that I really like the word 'ecological' thinking much more than compliance with directives. We usually think about meters, indicators, rankings, etc. when we talk about the green turn. It may not be ecologically beneficial, but, on the contrary, harmful, to achieve any single reading in itself. One random example. Maybe in the details I'm not quite precise, but that's definitely the principle. In order for Estonia to be able to recover certain waste, we must import part of the waste from Ireland. You understand that this is anything but an ecological solution. It's just this transport, the costs, and so on, it's bad for nature, but we're gonna get a little bit of a letter. Another example is that of Siim Kisler. We get a great result in fulfilling the task of renewable energy, but for that we cut down our forests. And so on. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to dream a little. I have a vision or if you want, a dream. I have a dream. And the dream name is a smart country or if you want to, a smart country. We have different problems, different challenges in energy, water supply, waste treatment, etc. But these aren't different problems. They're all one big problem. And in this respect, my speech relates to what was just said here by Imre Sooäär: that we have an e-state and we are terribly proud of it. But the next step would be a smart country where all needs, all waste, all resources and so on, all this information is concentrated in a single centre. Of course, there's a danger here, so let's call it the threat of a deep state that some kind of artificial intelligence will decide instead of us. But there are all kinds of regulations and opportunities how, on the contrary, not to create monopolies, but to decentralize, because this wise state, a smart economy is a decentralised and competitive economy. All of this requires bold thoughts, bold steps, and a decision not to slow down the process with any individual metrics. Today, not only in the European Union, but all this green revolution is entangled in CO2. In general, greenhouse gases are the biggest problem and, among them, CO2 is a particular problem. Some particularly sensitive people even see CO2 in the air. CO2 in itself is not harmful, without it life is not possible. Without CO2, forests can't... Can I have a few more minutes just in case?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U133	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U134	The problem is not just CO2. If, for example, we are damaging our water resources to reduce CO2, this is not a solution to the problem, but a problem that is aggravating. We know that water resources in the world today are at least as acute a problem as greenhouse gases. This is not an Estonian problem, but if we think globally, we must also stop wasting water in Estonia. And here, any solutions that can be offered by a wise country would be very useful. Energy, water supply, waste industry, transport and many other areas are not independent. Similarly, Estonia's regions are not independent. We understand there are problems in Northeast Estonia. But there are no separate problems in North-East Estonia; these are Estonia's problems. We cannot leave these regions alone to deal with our problems and concerns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U135	Thank you. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U136	Good manager! Colleagues! This has been a good debate today: meaningful, peaceful. I mean, I don't think there are many issues in an increasingly toxic political environment or atmosphere over the last year and a half where the opposition and the current power union, or at least two thirds of the power union, do not doubt the impact of human activity on climate change. These two sides are quite similarly minded. Today's debate on green tea, or the fight against climate change and the use of cleaner new technologies in the economy, is now one of the policies where a common understanding is quite certain. I think it's pretty good, I don't know, the starting point or the platform to go on. Of course, we have differences of opinion in the details or in the pace of convergence. For example, there are those with whom we agree that Estonia's current attitude of a well-preserved official is that if we have to do so, we could be replaced by a much more ambitious attitude that would link our technological skills, the readiness of entrepreneurs and the knowledge of researchers to one. This way, we would not simply fulfil the common purpose of the European Union or do things simply because it is the wish of the European Union, but it would actually be our own next great goal. Like the two previous speakers, as well as a few earlier speakers, I would like to see much more passion and enthusiasm from the representatives of the country when we are talking about a green turn or a green jump or a new leap of technology. I do not agree at all with those who are saying that, since the impact of small Estonia on global processes is so small or so scarce, we should, for the time being, withdraw and find ways to wait at a distance and see how much bigger of us can do. See how big this turning ship is huge and therefore slow, our small and agile Estonia with its much smaller scale is ideally suited to make the jump. I am absolutely convinced that our small size is precisely an advantage in making this leap, not the other way around, in any way an obstacle. There are three things in the green turn or in the green jump, or by borrowing from the previous speaker three cores or core themes that most critically need solutions. The first one, whether we want or not, is energy. We can get very far in all other areas, but if we do not solve our energy production, then unfortunately, all of this will not have such an impact in Estonia. The absolute lion's share of Estonian pollution still comes from energy production. And I don't think you should be afraid to say it. It also gives certainty and conviction to the companies that carry out activities in this sector. Secondly, energy saving and storage. 71% of Estonian people live in apartment buildings, which is a pretty high percentage. And we have about 22,000 of these apartment buildings. I'm asking for up to three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U137	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U138	This means, first of all, that we have the opportunity in our country, the potential for energy savings. Secondly, our researchers, for example, have developed very good integrated solutions to achieve energy savings at the Technical University. This is certainly one area where once again the bar we have set could be much, much higher. We heard from Commissioner Kadri Simson how many buildings in Europe are waiting for comprehensive energy saving solutions. Estonia has a solution to propose; our scientists have a solution to propose. I think we need to go to their aid so that they can introduce this solution and that there is an opportunity to implement it much more widely in Europe. The third area is certainly transport, which has also been mentioned by several previous speakers. I'm sure you've noticed how Estonia also presents the fact that we electrify railways as a major change. Firstly, our electricity is still coming from oil shale, and secondly, there are already many more environmentally friendly new technologies that are not the first to be introduced in Estonia. This is certainly a subject that needs to be considered. Two observations, quite a conclusion. First of all, next year the direction of local governments will be set in Estonia for four years. In the European Union, but in fact in the wider world, it is very common for municipalities to set more ambitious targets than the countries as a whole. In the United States, some states and some capitals and other cities in Europe set themselves the goal of becoming climate - neutral or carbon - neutral. In fact, I would like to ask where we have these cities in Estonia. Perhaps this expected boost could also come from many of our municipalities. This is certainly something on which we should all, as citizens of some local governments, ask very demandingly and offer solutions as politicians. Last but not least, I think we must say a great deal of thanks to the business sector in Estonia, which I think is more ambitious at times and has taken on the carrier role from politicians. The Green Tiger initiative is an ideal example of how entrepreneurs are not looking forward to what is being done to them, I do not know, any precepts or guidelines by the state, but are thinking about how to become greener, how to achieve a new level in this area not only within Estonia, but also internationally. And I'm sure it's very much appreciated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U139	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U140	Good Chairman! The good guardians of the Republic and all those people who are watching us through ETV2! "Greens die in autumn the greens die in autumn / Who cares who cares about it / I'm not, for example, green anymore. "The band Velikije Luki's song "Pudi" and Pudi were the person who created these lyrics. I don't know what he really meant. We all assumed they were actually green beer bottles. We called them frogs. But even more striking was the phrase that nature is green, I'm not, I've been able to change colors before autumn. Please note: next year we will have local government elections and then we will see this color change! We see most parties grafting something green into their programmes because it sells. Green love has come with us in our senses from the traditional great-grandfathers and the great-grandfathers. It is a thrifty, sustainable and perhaps clear and equally understandable peasant wisdom. But perhaps we want to be even greener than the green one. Nine times measured, once cut was such an old teaching for us. But as I say that every medal has seven sides, I am actually calling that we no longer need to measure nine times, because our measuring instruments have become quite accurate. Seven measurements are sufficient. Quite a lot of good initiatives are behind us being measured seven times, but it is as if we still need to measure twice. You'd better get on with it. Yeah, is it man-made that pollution? I dare say so. It's called being born in an office. It is in the office that people have competence, but those who do not have experience come up with very strange initiatives. One of the most interesting ones was in the previous composition of the Committee on European Union Affairs, where it came up with such an extremely agile idea that we should ban cocktail straws. When I asked how much of man-made garbage was made up of cocktail straws, no one could say anything specific about it. But there was a debate and a discussion about whether a cocktail straw is what would save the world right now. I think it's the wrong way, a dead end, if we take into account how much of our daily household waste actually contains this plastic. One very simple example that I have given here in the Riigikogu several times is traditional tobacco products versus alternative tobacco products. My good groupmate Heiki said that, of course, alternative tobacco products or e-cigarettes are a better option, because they do not throw cigarette butts into the wild. Or a simpler example. If it was possible to obtain all kinds of e-liquids from normal bottles before, then it is now possible to obtain them from such smaller ones, ten milliliters being the limit. So one bottle versus ten of these little ones. Because somebody's made that decision somewhere. However, I come back to the very sitting of the Committee on European Union Affairs where we did not fully understand the problem of why cocktail straws should be banned. I remember a lot of artists and musicians starting to say that a person who orders a cocktail with a cocktail straw in a bar is short-sighted and hostile to the environment. But our debate has come to an extremely strange situation. And if there is a major garbage problem in the Mediterranean, why should we do such a thing here in Estonia? We could rather teach them environmental awareness, just as it has risen in Estonia. Tiina Kangro made a point. He asked: "You young people, have you ever had a real life? Today, the cocktail straw is the only food for many people because of the circumstances. Yeah, that's right, it's the only diet for them. You're going after the weakest because you had nothing to do in your office. " When you do something, you do it with passion. Make it understandable to everyone so that we can be convincing, not so that before autumn we could switch colors again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-10_U141	Thank you. There's no further call request. I thank the organisers of this debate, thank all the rapporteurs, thank the questioners and speakers. Therefore, the issue of national importance today is no longer being discussed. Have a nice day, everybody!
