ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on the 7th working week on Thursday. As usual, first of all, there is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Colleagues! In a situation where we have reached a critical point and where action must be taken quickly and decisively, the Socialists have a draft law amending the Health Insurance Act, which aims to enable people to remain calmly quarantined at home. This allows workers who are staying at home with suspected infectious disease in accordance with the procedures prescribed by the family doctor to receive sickness benefit from the first day. The current Health Insurance Act, as you know, does not allow the sickness benefit to be paid for staying at home in case of suspicion of an infectious disease. The law provides that no sickness benefit is paid for the first three days of sickness, from the fourth to the eighth day, the employer pays the benefit 70% of the average salary of the employee, and from the ninth day, the sickness benefit is paid by 70% of the average daily income of the staff member of the sickness fund for the preceding calendar year. This places a huge burden on both the employer and the employee. The Health Board and the Government of the Republic have asked for 14 days to stay at home with people who have signs of the virus, who have close contacts with the infected person or who have returned from the risk area. Being isolated is essential to control the spread of infection. But yesterday, on March 11, a study of Brandem's running behaviour revealed that 65% of people have been working sick. Of these, 55% worked sick and 10% worked at home. In particular, it is the lower-income workers who are under particular pressure. For viruses like SARS-CoV-2, it is essential to create conditions to ensure that people stay at home when this becomes necessary to prevent the spread of the virus. The Social Democratic Party Group's proposal is, of course, to deal with this bill in an urgent and urgent manner. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U3	Of course, let's avoid all the risks! The Bureau will adopt this draft and it will be dealt with in accordance with the procedure provided for in the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. Now, the presence check, please! There are 87 members of the Riigikogu, no 14. We can start our work. I will begin by proposing to add to today's agenda. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas has expressed his wish to make a political statement at today's Riigikogu meeting regarding the situation in Estonia. Under subsections 56 (1) (9) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act, the President of the Riigikogu has added to the agenda of today's sitting and added a political statement by Jüri Ratas as the first item on the agenda. One important comment to this point: On the Riigikogu website, the Prime Minister's political statement is transferred together with a sign language translation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U4	Before we go to the first point, there are some explanations on how this application will be handled. First of all, the Prime Minister's political statement is up to 20 minutes. It is then possible to ask questions; each member of the Riigikogu may ask the Prime Minister an oral question. After the application has been submitted, negotiations will be opened during which representatives of political groups may speak. Such an explanation to this point. Let us begin the processing of this item. Please, Prime Minister, the chair is yours!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U5	Thank you. We come to this major decision: the announcement of an emergency situation. Yes, today at 10.52, it can be said that the government is not yet ready to declare an emergency situation, but that does not mean that it will not come at one point in the nearest future. I think that here in the Riigikogu speech chair, it is also honest and quite appropriate to say what it would mean if the special situation were to come, what it would add. The most important measures likely to be taken in the event of an emergency situation for the corona virus are the following: First of all, point 1: introduces a ban on certain places of stay and other restrictions on movement. Persons can be obliged to leave the emergency area or part of the emergency area and may be prohibited from staying in or part of the emergency area. Section 2: Restrictions on holding public meetings and other public events. It is possible to limit the holding of public meetings and other public events in the emergency area. Section 3: If the change of the state budget or the introduction of an additional budget is due to a special situation, the time limits set out in the State Budget Act do not apply to the amendment of the State Budget Act and the initiation of the additional budget bill. Item 4: Resources for the stabilisation reserve can also be used to cover expenditure. In addition, there is an emergency right to issue orders. The law states that the Head of Emergency has the right to give instructions for the resolution of an epidemic emergency to the head of emergency work, authorities and persons performing public administration tasks, taking into account the competences and powers of those authorities and persons. The relevant officials may only oblige a natural person to work in an emergency situation if the competent authorities or the volunteers involved by them cannot do so or cannot do so in due time. The expropriation and forced use of movable property, as well as the execution of emergency work in the possession of someone, are possible. An injunction and the application of the administrative sanction to critical service providers and communication operators are permitted, as are the use of the Defence Forces and the Defence League. I think I have already said to you, Mr Sester, that this has been discussed in depth several times. When a state of emergency is declared, the conditions prescribed by law must be fulfilled. What are they? For example, this is an emergency caused by the spread of an infectious disease. This is what we discussed this morning with the Minister of Social Affairs, the Secretary of State and the Head of the Health Board and found that today is no longer an emergency threat, but an emergency. The second condition is that an emergency cannot be resolved without an emergency management arrangement. And third condition: emergency measures are needed to deal with an emergency. This is the so-called legal basis. As far as 100+ events are concerned, as I said yesterday, I am also saying today that I do not think it is reasonable to hold these events. Unfortunately, they contribute to the spread of the virus, to the increase in its risk. Today, we see hindsight as wisdom in some cases, too, hindsight is good wisdom, that it can be safely said that it was not reasonable to organise sports events in Saaremaa. Very likely that's where the spread of the virus began in Saaremaa. I believe that if we move to the next phase, this recommendation will already become an obligation, and not only an obligation for the public sector, but also, of course, for the private sector. Yes, one must consider separately whether private gatherings should also be banned. In some countries, private parties and other private gatherings are also prohibited. They are still happening in Estonia. In my opinion, as we approach the legal side, we also need to think about how it can be implemented. In any case, if these steps are needed, I am and it seems to me that the whole government is also fully prepared.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U6	Thank you. One of the problems that I also said in the speech, which has led to some entanglement, is the movement of medical supplies across borders. It concerns the European Union, but it also concerns other countries where obstacles have arisen at borders. I think it is very important to emphasise this. And I also ask for your help, members of the Riigikogu. If you are communicating with your co-workers in a situation of moments by e-mail or telephone, you should always indicate this as well. This could cause very serious problems at some point when borders are being shut down in the transportation of these supplies and the country that needs them most cannot have them. If you are asking whether Estonia has made these assessments, then yes, of course Estonia has made these assessments. Today we know that under normal circumstances we can, when we talk about the complete quarantine of people in the hospital and hospitalization at all, guarantee these places a little less than a hundred. But as I said, if necessary, special solutions can also be adopted, which of course means that daily care can suffer from it. Of course, the treatment needed to save people's lives must not suffer. The Estonian medical system is, of course, ready to take such steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U7	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U8	Thank you. When we talk about the requirements that I read out when Mr Sester asked, there is certainly a very common position in this regard. When we talk about this moment, whether to do it on the day of the x-week, and what exactly has to have happened, these views may be different. But I don't know any member of the government who says that if this outbreak continues and things change, like I said, in hours, there's no way you need to come back to it. As I said, today's government decision was very clear and concrete. It was decided to set up this government committee, and it actually shows that we are working in the same rhythm. That is, even if at one point it is necessary to declare the special situation you asked about.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U9	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U10	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good Estonian people! As of this morning, 464 COVID-19 virus tests have been carried out in Estonia and we are now known to have 16 virus infected. The health department is in close contact with them and the condition of the infected is good given the circumstances. The current cases of infection have mainly been related to travel in risk areas, and only yesterday we heard about the infected because of contact on the surface of Estonia. The Health Board assesses the risk of introducing single cases of corona virus into Estonia very high, the likelihood of a limited spread of the disease on the ground is medium to high and the likelihood of widespread spread of the disease on the ground remains low. At the same time, we must be prepared for a rapid change in the situation and for a wider spread of the virus. Yesterday, the World Health Organization, or WHO, estimated that corona virus COVID-19 is a pandemic, or global epidemic. In making this assessment, they expressed concerns about the severity and rapid spread of the disease. To stop it, the organisation considers that decisive international cooperation is needed. Our Health Board has already raised health system preparedness to level 1 in order to prepare for negative developments. Raising the level of preparedness means that ambulances and hospitals have started to build up supplies and expand their ability to test the corona virus. In addition to the health system and the preparedness of the authorities, the personal contribution of each individual is still very important. In order to prevent infection, normal hygiene rules should be observed, hands washed and people affected by respiratory disease should be avoided. In particular, we should keep our elderly loved ones and avoid visiting them when suffering from respiratory diseases. After returning from the area of risk for spreading the disease, your health should be monitored within 14 days and, if you experience fever, cough or breathing difficulties, contact your doctor immediately, seek advice from your family doctor's counselling line and, if necessary, call an ambulance. Suspicion of infection with the Corona virus may be justified if a person has recently been present in the area where the disease has spread and also has symptoms specific to the disease. I would like to point out, honourable Riigikogu, that these and other recommendations from the Health Board are carefully implemented. Indeed, 14 days must be spent at home, avoiding shopping, cinemas, theatres, and meetings with friends. This should also be remembered, if necessary, for your children and parents, colleagues, neighbors, and friends. There is no place for Estonian modesty. Experience in other countries shows that temporary separation helps to prevent viral spread most effectively. According to the Agency's risk assessment, the risk areas of the Coronavirus are currently the People's Republic of China, Italy, Iran and South Korea. In addition, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has recommended avoiding travel to Japan, Singapore, France, Germany, Spain, Egypt and Israel. There is a risk of becoming subject to quarantine or movement bans in other countries as well. All hospitals have been instructed to deal with patients suspected of being infected with COVID-19. The Health Board has mapped the supplies of personal protective equipment for hospitals and ambulances, contracts have been concluded to supplement the supply of respirators from Estonian producers, and we also participate in joint procurement of personal protective equipment from 20 EU Member States. We have assessed the number of beds, including intensive care beds, in hospitals at the moment, and I would stress: at the moment, it is too high to cope with the possible wider spread of the corona virus among the population. As the number of patients increases, it is possible to apply the next level of preparedness to limit the availability of scheduled treatment and thereby increase the capacity of hospitals. In addition, the Agency has received the task of mapping the needs of critical medicines in cooperation with the Health Board and the Estonian Health Insurance Fund and proposing additional supplies. In February and March, the government has been intensively monitoring and responding to the situation caused by the spread of the coronavirus. However, the situation can change in hours, not in days. For us, the primary and most important task has been to protect the health and well-being of our people. To this end, the Government of the Republic has set six objectives. First, prevent further spread of the virus in Estonia. Secondly, to prevent the spread of the virus on the ground in Estonia. Thirdly, to ensure that the health system is able to control the virus and treat the disease caused by it. Fourthly, to raise people's awareness of how to prevent the spread of the virus and how to treat the disease caused by it. Fifth, to ensure that the population copes with the indirect effects of the virus. And sixthly, ensure that the Estonian economy functions as normal as possible. A few weeks ago, we were talking about an emergency situation. Very Honourable Riigikogu! Given the current epidemiological situation in the world and the spread of the corona virus in Europe, the growing threats to the Estonian economy, the difficulties in the supply chains of the business sector, the internal and external challenges and the need for a more operational governance structure for the various public authorities, I think it is clear that we have actually reached an emergency situation, but we can overcome it as a society and with the help of everyone. This morning, the Government of the Republic decided to set up a government committee to lead the handling of the situation caused by the COVID-19 virus and to seek solutions to the resulting public health and economic problems. The Commission's task is to ensure that situations related to the spread of the virus are resolved, that cooperation between the state and local authorities in this field is organised and that our resources and capabilities are used in a coordinated manner, taking into account the objectives set out above. The Commission shall consist of the Minister for Education and Science, the Minister for Justice, the Minister for Defence, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, the Minister for Finance, the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in addition to the Secretary of State, and shall be headed by the Prime Minister. The organisation of the work of the Commission shall be ensured by the State Chancellery. Following the meeting of the government, there was also a meeting in which we decided, as additional measures, which are certainly not final, to postpone the reception of cruise ships until 1 May, to base the organisation of the staff of public authorities, local authorities, as well as private and non-profit sector missions and incoming visits on the recommendation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to recommend the postponement of public events with more than 100 participants, to give the Health Board the responsibility of coordinating the public event with more than 100 participants in an event and the task of assessing compliance with the instructions for permits already issued, to postpone from today all excursions planned in public institutions, I know that this has also been done by the Riigikogu, and to open the emergency telephone number of the Coronavirus with 1247 at the latest on 16 March. We are certainly ready to continue to react constantly, in line with the changes in the situation and the threat assessments, and to introduce new measures if necessary. We have agreed that the first meeting of the Government of the Republic Commission will be held today at 2 p.m. In all of this, it is certainly very important to ensure that there is a balance between the freedoms of our people, the general functioning of society and the steps needed to contain the virus. The health crisis is at risk of expanding into a wider crisis affecting our economy, affecting our well-being and people's jobs. There will also be close coordination and exchange of information between the Member States and the institutions of the European Union to deal with these issues. I made a special proposal this morning to my Latvian, Lithuanian, Finnish and Swedish counterparts to set up a coordination mechanism between our offices to exchange information on national measures to prevent the spread of the virus. On Tuesday, I took part in the discussion of the Heads of State or Government of the European Union, chaired by Charles Michel, President of the Council, in the format of the videoconferencing conference. Risk assessments and measures to limit the spread of the virus may vary from one Member State to another, but there are many things that we can learn from one another and do together. It is certainly very important to focus more resources on health and research in order to accelerate the development of the necessary medicines and vaccines. The European Commission has already put its shoulder on this. Nor must we forget the solidarity between the European Union and other countries. We have to go on to emphasise this in terms of restrictions on the export of medical devices, which could cause damage to the countries that are currently in the most difficult situation. Members of the Riigikogu! Good listeners! The spread of the COVID-19 virus and the simultaneous fall in oil prices have seriously affected the economic situation in Europe and the world. Therefore, there are several warning signs for Estonia. The current economic forecasts are no longer valid, but making new and firm predictions is extremely difficult in the current situation. We therefore need to be prepared for a possible significant deterioration of the economic environment and even for the recession. The government, together with the institutions of the other Member States of the European Union, will do its utmost to prevent a greater deterioration in the economic situation. We can see that many sectors of the economy, mainly related to tourism, have already suffered losses, such as transport and travel and event management, as a result of the spread of the Corona virus. The effects of a reduction in private consumption and external demand may also occur. We therefore need to consider the situation and address ways of mitigating the damage already suffered and supporting economic growth. Both Estonia and the European Union have several tools that we can use. Whether it is to support the sectors affected by fiscal measures or to increase potential public investment. Above all, we need urgent and well-targeted steps which, of course, need to be carefully thought out. In financial terms, the Estonian state will not fail, because we have sufficient financial resources and the ability to borrow much more than necessary from other countries. In the event of a deterioration in the situation, I consider it essential to focus primarily on supporting and reviving the Estonian economy, not on cutting it down. The President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, has said that they are also prepared to use all means to successfully survive the setbacks of the European economy. The European Union will provide Member States with more structural funds in advance in the event of an outbreak, so that Member States can speed up their support for health assistance, as well as contribute to supporting small and medium-sized enterprises and the labour market. During the discussion on Tuesday's videoconference, it was also clear that decisive action is needed to provide certainty for businesses. This can be done, for example, through state aid measures and through the flexibility allowed by the Stability and Growth Pact, to ensure the competitiveness and security of businesses in the labour market and to avoid long-term negative impacts on our economies. Such steps and decisions are certainly in Estonia's interest. Honourable Estonians! The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, through our foreign missions, monitors the measures imposed in other countries, renews travel warnings and ensures the continuity of missions in crisis areas. In addition, we will explore ways to raise the issue of the spread of the corona virus in the United Nations Security Council as well. The travel recommendations of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are not given by light hands, but are based on two principles. Citizens will be informed of high-risk areas where the risk of infection with the virus is high, as well as of possible travel barriers related to the introduction of curfews in the infected areas. We must all view these travel suggestions with attention and responsibility. This applies not only to holidays but also to work visits. We have also decided in the State Chancellery to postpone or cancel all planned foreign missions of the Prime Minister in the near future. The only meeting of the European Council to be held at the end of March is planned, which will certainly also discuss measures to combat the corona virus. In the case of urgent journeys, it is important to register them through the channels of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so that the state can provide effective consular assistance, if necessary, and provide its assistance and support in the event of unforeseen events. Since the beginning of the outbreak, there has been the evacuation of an Estonian citizen when a person from the original outbreak of the infection from China was helped home. Our embassies are in constant readiness to provide the necessary assistance. Honourable ambassadors! I would like to remind you here of the words of my good fellow Member, former Minister of Health and Labour Riina Sikkut yesterday in Riigikogu Question Time: we are now moving away from normal functioning, both in health care and in the economy, to situations where emergency measures are applied. And in such a situation, information, best knowledge and the involvement of experts have an even more important role to play in order to mitigate risks, provide assistance and prevent panic that actually amplifies damage. This is certainly not a time for political battles, but for cooperation, common priorities and knowledge-based decision-making. That is why I also appeal to all of you, the highly respected members of the Riigikogu. Diseases still pass by people, not along rocks and stumps, as the old people knew. Therefore, combating them in society does not depend on the political party's worldview either. I thank you for providing thoughtful and balanced messages in your communication and for supporting the country and authorities in the steps that have been taken so far. I am convinced that all of you have considered these same issues and considered rather similar solutions that have been on the agenda in the government's discussions and have analysed their relevance. I call on all of you, in the current situation, to think along and propose solutions, and I am thinking of Parliament as a whole as well as the committees, political groups and individual members. It is certainly possible for the Riigikogu to formulate its proposals and conceivable solutions, which could be important in mitigating the situation that has developed. I thank you for your thoughts, as was the call of Kaja Kallas yesterday. Finally, I am very grateful to all the people and authorities of Estonia who have so far been following the spread of the corona virus and responding to it in the necessary ways. Of course, I am very grateful to all health professionals and the Police and Border Guard Board, who have been on the front line in this fight. I urge all of us to maintain our own health and the health of our loved ones and to reflect on our behaviour, also considering the people around us, especially older people at risk and other people with weaker health. I assure you from this honourable Riigikogu speech chair that if we act together and each and every one of us, working together, calmly thinking and thinking soberly, with respect for each other and contributing as a society, we will overcome the current difficult situation. I sincerely wish the people of Estonia and Estonia both strength and health! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U11	Short answer: yes. In an emergency situation, certain requirements need to be met. As I said, the emergency situation really provides an opportunity to impose a ban on stays and other restrictions on movement. But I also want to say here to the people who are watching and listening to this broadcast today that the emergency does not mean that the Estonian state will bring the army and the great mechanisms to the streets at the next minute. I don't think that's necessary right now. But yes, if you specifically ask the private sector about imposing mandatory restrictions, it is true that, in an emergency situation, a ban on stay and other restrictions on movement can really be imposed by law, it is possible to oblige persons to leave the emergency area or part of the emergency area and to prohibit them from staying in the emergency area or part of it. So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U12	Thank you. I also sincerely wish to say, Mr Valdo, that this is my wish and request, and I thank the Riigikogu Board for agreeing to this, which I said yesterday in Question Time. I think I'm not wrong, but I think I said either Kaja Kallas or Keit Pentus-Rosimethus on the question that I am doing everything I can to make communication between the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu even closer. I really think that there is now a situation in which the political parties represented in the Riigikogu, their representatives, their chairmen, the leaders of the political groups should meet in the near future. After all, this debate today on this subject, and your speeches in the round of negotiations, will give a new input or sense of what steps must be taken and what steps must be taken, how the Riigikogu will see everything further. Now a clearer message in communication. If we form the Government of the Republic commission, it will be served by the State Chancellery. The Head of Communication Working Group or Working Group is Urmas Seaver, Head of Communication at the State Chancellery. You referred to the various messages that have come from politicians and specifically mentioned the Minister of the Interior. In a sense, in any case, I support the statement of the Minister of the Interior in principle. I also said yesterday in Question Time that any strengthening of immunity, no matter how we do it or how we are used to doing it, is very right not only for this corona virus, but generally. Of course, it doesn't solve the whole infection problem, but I believe it was his idea to strengthen his own immunity. I think this too is very important. I, too, try to keep immunity as strong as possible through my daily conduct. But it is clear that, when we speak more broadly, of course, we must give concrete, clear messages on how to implement the measures. This was also my wish today to say specifically in the Riigikogu that today we are no longer talking about the emergency threat, but we have clearly moved to the next phase: we have an emergency situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U13	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U14	Thank you. If you're asking if it's been decided that, I don't know, universities and institutes should be put to home school, then the answer is that there isn't. We haven't reported it yet. Point one. Have we discussed this? Last time I discussed it, for example, yesterday. I asked the rector of Tallinn University, Mr. Landi, how they plan to react to what happened at the university. He said that a committee had been set up at the university to monitor and evaluate the development of things. I understand that this example, which you have given about Lisbon, is very correct, a respected nationalist. However, we must take into account that there are also very different countries within Europe, within the European Union. I mean, the degree of infection, how many people have already been infected. But I don't think your idea is wrong at all. Now the question of the concert, which Kristen Michal asked about. If the question is why we have not announced this exclusion, the specific answer is that, if there were an emergency situation, we could really say that there are specific restrictions on holding public meetings and other public events. It will then be possible to limit public meetings and other public events in the emergency area. If there is an emergency situation in Estonia, it can be said that this or another concert will not take place. Today, I say out of this honourable chair that I do not think it is right to give this concert in today's state. I think it's wrong. If you are now asking what its legal basis is, this legal basis is in many ways what we have discussed here in the last hour: whether or not Estonia should declare an emergency situation. As I said, we are most likely to come back to this topic today after two o'clock when we meet this afternoon.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U15	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U16	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Members of the Riigikogu have questions. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U17	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U18	Thank you, good Chairman! Good Prime Minister! Would the closure of educational establishments be a proportionate preventive measure?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U19	Thank you for this question. I think it was about 20 hours or a little more ago than the report of the first infected person at the Kristiine Gymnasium in Tallinn. We were also discussing at government level what to do with educational institutions if such a message were to come. At that point, that information wasn't there yet. As I said in my speech, the situation changes not in days, but in hours. And there was a very clear common sense in this regard in the office. The Health Board said that it would take approximately 48 hours, two days to clean up such an authority completely, and that the incubation period of the infection could be up to 14 days in close contact. It came to the view that if such a thing were to happen in kindergarten, primary school or upper secondary school, this institution would have to be closed for at least two weeks, of course in cooperation with the Health Board and the schoolkeeper. At the moment, we are only talking specifically about this time of day. We do not know what will happen next minute and whether closing school is a proportionate measure. I know that parents at this school have said that they really want to see negative tests and other samples taken when the school opens. Then we can open the school. My sense is that now, if you take a bit more broadly, and I would stress that this is now only my sense, because we have not made such a decision at the level of the government, and if these cases are to come more, then it is entirely proportionate to go to full closure of educational establishments, be it kindergarten, primary school or upper secondary school. I can bring another parallel here. It's new information from yesterday. Last night I had a conversation with the parish elder of Saaremaa, who today has made a decision if I am mistaken, 14 schools and two kindergartens to close for the next two days, so it's for today and tomorrow. Yes, we can say that our beautiful and greatest island is, in some ways, isolated because of the sea, and the risk of infection and panic is certainly quite high. According to the parish elder, there was a danger of panic yesterday. I think his remedy is very correct. So the answer to you is: I certainly support the fact that, if these cases come more, it is entirely reasonable and proportionate to consider the closure of all educational establishments as well. And I think if you do that, not for less than 14 days.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U20	First of all, thank you for setting this very important issue. The answer is, of course, that it is constantly being monitored. The Minister of the Interior has always been involved when we talk about the Police and Border Guard Board or the Rescue Board. But not just that. We must also talk about the ambulance, the medical field, which is also important services. So the answer is: yes, it is important, and it is actually a very high risk point, because these people are very often at the forefront, they are in contact with a lot of people, be it the medical sector or some other vital service. Of course, it's important to keep an eye on it. But I want to point out that we have learned serious lessons from both Saaremaa and Võrumaa. At the same time, we may have an additional problem alongside the current one, for example, in connection with a blackout. We all know that in the case of communications, this means the loss of communication in Estonia for hours, and when we talk about filling stations, there are too few filling stations that are autonomously able to deliver. About a week ago, it was decided at government level that the situation would have to improve in a year to two. We are talking about support masts: 1000 cell towers out of 450 have to develop a so-called generator capacity, which should provide telephone and SMS communications for six hours across Estonia, in addition to automatic filling stations in all counties. Like I said, things can happen in minutes. At the beginning of my speech, I told you that we have 16 infected with the virus, but if I understand correctly, it doesn't work out anymore. The new number is 17.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U21	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U22	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! It is clear that in the case of such outbreaks, it is not possible to state whether the measures are proportionate or not proportionate. It is evident that the disease has captured the whole world. This means that it must be taken very seriously. I have a question: why has it been decided that up to a hundred people can go together? I think it's a fairly large number, and it could be affecting the spread of the disease.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U23	Thank you. I understand the question is this limit of 100 people. The justification is as follows: A very large number of European countries have today taken a decision on two criteria. One concerns external events and the other concerns internal events. Looking at the examples of European countries, different boundaries have been established for external and internal events. In Austria, for example, foreign events with up to 500 people and internal events with up to 100 people are allowed. According to current information, private parties are also prohibited. France has banned the gathering of more than 1000 people on 9 March, but we must consider that the population of France is over 65 million. Slovenia has said that more than 100 participants will be banned, with a population of just over 2 million. The Czech Republic has also banned gatherings with over 100 people, with a population of over 10 million. Yes, indeed, there were more cases in Slovenia and the Czech Republic last night than there were in Estonia, 34 and 64 respectively. So I guess somewhere you're gonna have to draw that reasonable line. You can always ask whether this limit should be two people, for example, because there is also a risk of infection. But this morning, I consulted with the Head of the Health Board, and his senses are that events with more than 100 people should not be held in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U24	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U25	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! My question concerns the impact of restrictions on national defence. Does the government or, more specifically, the Minister of Defence have a vision today of how these restrictions will be applied, for example, in the exercises of the Defence Forces and the Defence League, or what effect will the Spring Storm have on the major exercise taking place in May?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U26	Thank you. The very short answer is that this morning, too, there was a discussion of this and there was an agreement that we would come back to it today at two o'clock when the government committee meets. Yes, of course it is a legitimate question, it is very clearly a matter of defence, including exercises. We will try to provide appropriate instructions and other information as soon as possible. So the subject is certainly topical, and I think we'll be discussing it this afternoon. This is also one of the reasons why the government felt that the Minister of Defence should definitely be a member of this government committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U27	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, thank you very much for sharing today's statement and information, which is also provided by sign language translation. I hope that most of the people of Estonia will be aware of the developments. But this is about older people, especially old people living alone, who sometimes lack the resources of medicines and food. What support does the government provide to local governments so that they can provide information and help to people?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U29	Thank you very much for this question. Yes, you are very right to say, the most dangerous is the virus, at least according to the information to date, for the elderly and also for those suffering from severe diseases. The right question is, what is the state's support for local authorities? Very generally speaking, support is certainly comprehensive. We have sent out e-mails, as well as direct mail, about which Helmen Kütt asked several times yesterday in Question Time, the information should reach people immediately. Local authorities must, of course, guarantee social welfare and social assistance. After all, they also have the most accurate knowledge of their municipality, the needy of their municipality. However, if you ask about financial support, the government has decided that, certainly, when implementing these measures, we cannot count on the government not to have to allocate funds from the reserve fund at some point in time. The Minister of Administration of the State has been asked to keep the municipalities informed and to pass on government decisions to them. So the support is definitely comprehensive. It's just yesterday's case. This does not directly concern the elderly, which you asked about, but I would say that in such an unexpected situation it was very reasonable that there was coordinated cooperation between the parish elder and the Minister of Education and Research and me yesterday. I think that's the way it should be.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U30	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U31	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! I also want to wish the government strength and rational thinking. It is certainly reasonable to tolerate and survive these inconveniences and limitations and minor losses in order to prevent much greater damage. But I am specifically asking about the measures that you discussed in the government this morning. I understand that there are some limitations to even the restrictions on visits, well, the facility will be shut down, no one will be allowed to pass through, or the fact that cruise ships will not receive a port pass. Got it! But what are these measures and instruments to ensure compliance with other recommendations or restrictions? Let's take missions. I am not talking about missions to the State Chancellery, I am talking about private-sector missions. Or even those events with more than a hundred participants and travel recommendations, planes also fly to endangered countries. What are these instruments and instruments to ensure that these recommendations and measures are respected?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U32	Thank you. Thanks for the good word, but I'm going to answer the questions right now. It is very right that there is a specific question that, if there is a measure, how to ensure that it is implemented. And there are certainly some issues in which the answers are constantly evolving. One question was how to check whether, for example, the call for external visits in the private sector is being followed. As you yourself said, when we talk about ministries or the public sector at all, it is quite easy to meet the requirements when it comes to government instructions. However, when we are talking about the private sector, I must admit that I myself have wondered how the calls from the Health Board, which have been largely recommended so far, will be met. Take, for example, the call to please push international major events into the second half of the year. I, too, thought about the question of how its implementation in the private sector is still taking place. But let's take one big event with international and tradition, Tallinn Music Week or Tallinn Music Week. The organisers made a decision pretty soon to postpone it. I also know that in the energy sector, the big international conference that was due to come at the beginning of the summer has been postponed in the second half of the year. At least that's what they're planning to do. So I would like to say that I think the private sector has taken these suggestions quite seriously. Now that there is a question of whether the government can talk about an emergency, as I said in my speech, I think we are no longer talking about an emergency threat, but we are clearly on a new level: it is an emergency. But specific orders or regulations can't be made at the moment. It would be possible to do so in an emergency if we were to follow the law, the law. However, this has been discussed several times by the government and it cannot be said that we will not get there at one point. Now, your question also concerned restrictions on public events, such as banning events with more than 100 people or those with fewer than 100 people. One thing is clear: we ask that everyone who comes to apply for a public event permit must also receive coordination from the Health Board. At present, in many cases, the Police and Border Guard Board or the Rescue Board must coordinate. As I said yesterday in the Riigikogu, I continue to believe that when we talk about events where there are 100 or more people, it is not recommended to organise them now in Estonia. You should think about that very seriously. Some countries have drawn up a very specific guide setting out how far people have to sit between themselves. These are today's messages. When it comes to cruise ships, as I said, no cruise ships may come to Estonia before 1 May. This requirement is primarily applied by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Of course, the main cooperation is in this regard with the Port of Tallinn. These restrictions must also be communicated as soon as possible to shipowners and companies who are planning to make cruises to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U33	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U34	Thank you very much. Prime Minister! It is possible that we are on the verge of entering the major crisis, and all possible preventive actions are, of course, important, including crisis communication. It is very important that your messages and government messages really reach everyone. A good example was that your report was also transmitted by sign - language translation. I'm sure the text of your speech will be translated into other languages, but we also have a group of hearing impaired people, non-signal people with hearing loss, to whom information must necessarily reach. I have not so much a question to ask you about this, but a request to your office that the texts of your speeches and further messages of the crisis be sent to the Estonian Association of Hearers and the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, who can quickly share official crisis messages on their internal network.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U35	Thank you, Mr. Jaanson. I can assure you that last night, the topic discussed with the Minister of Social Affairs related to the sharing of information to hearing people. Now you have made a specific proposal for all decisions and documents to be sent to the Association of Deprived Hearers. Yeah, I'm sure we will. I promise that I will also raise this issue in the Committee on Government today at two o'clock. The Minister of Social Affairs is also a member of this committee. Of course, any such proposals are very welcome and require immediate implementation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U36	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Here's the question. This morning we heard that the United States closed its borders on people coming from Europe. Do we have the assurance that all the people who enter Estonia have somehow checked that the thermal cameras are working and that this will help? What do you say to that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U38	Thank you for this question. I'm worried about borders, too. When we're talking about thermal cameras, we're not talking about this day, but they were installed seven to ten days ago. They fix the temperature of the body, and they have the same personalities. At the same time, thermal cameras are obviously not a miracle drug, that's understandable. After all, there are only four of these thermal cameras: Tallinn Port Terminals A and D and two at the airport. But I would like to say that we have now taken the next step to better control people on the land border. As I said in my speech and repeat again: the Police and Border Guard Board, as well as the Ministry of Social Affairs, will make every effort to provide people with a) information and b) control their body temperature. I think that the Government of the Republic commission brings much more clarity at the level of management, takes responsibility and adds concreteness. I think that the next steps must also be taken when we are talking about our borders. You're asking if everything possible has been done. It is clear that not everything is done. The options that the country can still make are much wider. What do I mean by that? By this I mean that I believe that there should also be a debate on what options are for the temporary implementation of border controls, if that is necessary. We know that there are very many people in Sweden who are infected. However, we have a shipping service in Tallinn-Stockholm-Tallinn. I think that these issues need to be seriously put on the table today after lunch and discuss how to limit potential hotspots as much as possible. And at some point, when we see that the situation needs such resolute intervention, we can take much more forceful action. So I will answer you: certainly not all the measures that could be implemented have been implemented. It requires, I think, certain legal steps. Apart from restricting maritime tourism, much has been discussed as to whether certain flights can be banned. That's what the state's lawyers have been seriously wondering about. At the moment, I can say that Estonian air traffic functions as part of European air traffic. We are the 'last destination', and without coordinating the limitation of flights without other Member States, there would certainly be a situation where people flying to Estonia would also be trapped, figuratively speaking, in, for example, Frankfurt or Copenhagen or other airports. Citizens who want to return to Estonia from Italy should start choosing alternative ways, this is a flight to Riga airport and then on land to Estonia or something else. And so have the infected people come to Estonia. I really think that additional measures at borders also need to be considered very seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U39	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U40	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! It is very important for people who need to be at home for 14 days to know how they feel about their pay conditions. For many, giving up half a month's salary can be very difficult. If I remember correctly, I think yesterday you wrote on your Facebook, and I just looked up and didn't find out that the government has provided guidance to family doctors that it is possible to prescribe a sick list for those who should be at home for 14 days. Please, confirm it!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U41	Thank you. First of all, the sick list. I think it was Mr Aivar Sõerd who said that the question is whether we are trying to take all possible measures. I agree with that. After all, all these measures are painful in some areas of life. These measures are certainly painful in the economy. But in the end, as I said yesterday in Riigikogu Question Time, the main thing is to ensure the health and life of Estonian people. That's point 1, that's the most important, most important. Now, as I said yesterday, I can also say today that all the sick and those in close contact with them have the right to apply for a sick list from their family doctor and receive compensation. For those who come from risk areas, the family physician shall refer to specific cases: whether there are symptoms and possible exposure to the infected person. That's what I said yesterday, and I'm sure I'll stick to those words. I understand that you proposed to amend the law in the implementation of the Riigikogu sitting today. This must be discussed by the Riigikogu. But yes, the Health Board has also been asked to send a message to primary health care providers that if people need a sick list, they want to stay home, it would make sense in the current situation. As I told you, these prayers and instructions have been passed on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U42	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U43	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! I wish you strength, too, and that the government should keep pace. The sooner the necessary decisions are made, the more successful we will probably be as a country and a nation in this crisis. That's clear. I wanted to ask you about the economic sector, which measures are there, but unfortunately I have to ask you a little more specifically about one event. I agree with you that the big events with over 100 people should be canceled. But what about such a big event? In Tallinn's Tondiraba Ice Hall, where there are 7500 seats, and I stress that it is not a question of my taste in music, whether or not I like Philip Kirkorov's songs, his concert is coming tomorrow and there are other big events coming. Can the state give a message that events such as those where foreign visitors come from anywhere else in the world can also be disrupted as specifically as possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U44	Thank you. When we talk in general, all events that are international and when foreign guests come, they are not international, although, yes, you can always ask what borders internationality begins, whether from one foreign guest or from 10 or 25, must be pushed to the second semester of this year at least. You are asking very specifically for one concert, this single case, but a very large one. I believe that we are also trying to open the debate after lunch on this case. It is clear that this event will not help to prevent this virus. On the contrary, it certainly promotes its circulation, after all, in indoors, which is dangerous. But it is certainly premature to tell the Riigikogu today whether or not this event is cancelled. It's a little premature. But you really have to take this seriously. We'll make our decisions this afternoon.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U45	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister, I also thank you for this review and for the government taking positions. I do not have a case-by-case question, I would rather ask about the mapping of the situation. I understand the risk of introduction of infection is high, the limited spread on the ground is medium to high and the widespread spread on the ground is still low at the moment. I understand that, in fact, we are in a situation where decisions that may seem irrational in the morning may already be late at night. I have two questions. One is more specific and linked to 100+ events. You say it's recommended, and at the same time you say you need to submit an application for authorisation, the Health Board will assess this risk. But what's he supposed to judge by? How do these unfortunate people even value it? Here's my second question. Shouldn't we still think of a step forward? In my opinion, the announcement of an emergency situation is by nature nothing; the state of emergency itself does not really mean anything, but it does provide certain levers for possible rapid changes. I understand that you have discussed this, but would it be too disproportionate to take such a decision now? Two questions: 100+ events and emergency.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U47	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U48	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good Prime Minister! In this situation, it is certainly vital to try to give very clear messages. As for the 100+ events, most of our schools have 100+ students. Families travel in Sweden. I hope, and I wish, that this committee will send clear messages in the future. But my question. We have to be able to look forward. A number of countries have estimated with the help of scientists how quickly the virus spreads, what are the forecast numbers in these countries, what is the need, for example, for breathing devices which need to be used in more difficult cases. It's not to scare people, it's to be prepared to help in the worst circumstances. Has Estonia made these assessments? Do we know how many necessary devices we have? And if we don't have enough, can we get more?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U49	Thank you. Prime Minister! Is there a consensus between the government on the specific conditions to be met by this outbreak in order to make it necessary to declare an emergency situation? Is it sick or something?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U50	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U51	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! As a cultural composer, I know that these epidemics are two aspects. One is medical, epidemiological, the other is socio-political. There's always panic and violence and stuff like that. We know that there have already been several riots in Italy. And the worst way to prevent this panic is to warn you not to panic. It only increases the fear that the government is hiding something. If we now compare countries that have successfully fought coronavir with countries that have had very bad arrangements, such as Israel, Italy, France and some other European countries, we will see the same pattern as Estonia. They say don't panic, don't burden the doctors, we'll do the tests when we have to. But in South Korea alone, about 10,000 tests are done every day and there is no panic, because everyone knows who is infected, who isn't. Another concern is that it has become clear that there are not enough reanimation sites in Europe. In Italy, it was only yesterday that it was decided to establish a new centre with 400 reanimation sites. Is it meant in Estonia to see how new reanimation sites are created?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U52	Thank you. I'm trying to answer now. First of all, the tests. The tests have expanded, this capacity has grown. I went to the Health Board on my own weekend, and they have about 60 tests in four and a half hours a day. In addition, the places where these tests are carried out have been greatly increased, and also outside Tallinn. I'm not a doctor, I'm not a scientist, I'm not in medical education, but with this virus, I've been studying these questions. They say that if a person comes into contact with a corona virus carrier and tests the next day, it could be negative. The answer can also be the second day negative and the third day negative. It gives the person a completely wrong signal. That's why there's been a suggestion that everyone in the affected area stays at home for 14 days. Such instructions have also been issued by the Health Board. When a person finds out that he doesn't have a problem, he comes out of his home, but the problem may turn out, I don't know, on the sixth, seventh or eighth day. Now, this issue of unrest that you raised. I think we should thank the people of Estonia. I think that people have taken the whole situation from a very understanding point of view and acted very sympatheticly. I have not seen much panic in Estonian society, neither in food shops nor anywhere else. I'm sure our people should be thanked very much. But, of course, there is always a need to improve threat assessments, including in terms of internal security. And certainly the Police and Border Guard Board, in particular, is making these assessments.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U53	Thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! It is clear that the situation is extremely serious. We know that 22000 cases of viruses have now been proven in Europe. We know that the United States is shutting down airports, that Italy has closed shops, with the exception of groceries. I am extremely pleased that the government takes matters very seriously and prudently and has also given the public the signal that, as a matter of priority, more attention will certainly be paid to private entrepreneurship and people's ability to manage this situation. That's very good. And I am also pleased that the Prime Minister read out a moment ago, what if we had to declare an emergency situation. We understand everything. But I'm still asking for a clarification. If the situation really escalates to the fact that we have to go out on more draconian measures and the recommendations made today can be made mandatory, will there be mandatory restrictions in private business rather than indicatively? Does the emergency provide a basis for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U54	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U55	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U56	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister George! I really want to congratulate you on your performance today. It was serious, clear, even could be said to be sympathetic. But here's my question. I think that one part of the current lack of clarity or problem in Estonia has been that the government has sometimes come with very confusing and different signals. One minister has been talking about goose fat, the other has been talking about basically the last day. I would be very pleased if you were to say here on the remote now that from now on, government communication will take place either through one person, such as you or someone else's particular person, or that at least you will always coordinate what you say. Then maybe there won't be any different signals. Unfortunately, this is part of the problem of people becoming insecure.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U57	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U58	Thank you. Yeah, I can open it. There was a discussion about this during this video conference. The Commission comes up with proposals to make State aid rules more flexible, on the one hand, and the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact, on the other. In my opinion, the President of the Commission promised to do so as soon as possible, i.e. at the beginning of next week. What I know is that Ecofin will meet on Monday, and that is where the Commission is going to come up with concrete steps. But let us look at the positions or thoughts of European leaders published in the media yesterday. For example, the German Chancellor, Mrs Angela Merkel, also said that when we are talking about the fight against coronavir and the rules of balance, more flexibility is needed here. It actually sounded like this whole video conference. So, specifically, when it comes to some new levels of state aid, that is very correct. I think the Commission's gonna come up with this next week.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U59	Thank you. Good Prime Minister, thank you so much for coming here to tell us. It was necessary. There are a lot of questions, I'm going to go a little further on the previous issue, and I'm going to give you an idea. I understand that you can't commit anyone to anything right now, but maybe we're talking about an urgent recommendation, not such a vague recommendation. But my question concerns what is being done at European level. I understand that it has been a good idea to change the state aid rules in a way. Can you open the background that it means and how it will work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U60	Thank you, Mr. Ligi. Yeah, you're right, that's right. I said that before. Indeed, certain conditions are also needed. One is that this is an emergency caused by the spread of an infectious disease only then we go to the next phase, which is an emergency situation. It must also be said that an emergency cannot be resolved without an emergency situation. Emergency response cannot be provided without emergency management arrangements, so emergency response measures need to be implemented. These are the bases. You ask what the opinions of the members of the government have been. I would say that such a very coherent and clear opinion is today that everything must be done to prevent the spread of the corona virus from elsewhere in Estonia. The next wall, if it has not succeeded, and today we know that we already have 16 infected viruses, is to make sure that the virus does not spread on Estonian soil. However, as I said, yesterday brought reports of infection due to contact on Estonian soil. The emergency situation that has been discussed would provide additional opportunities to make every effort to ensure that this disease reaches as little as possible and to prevent its spread here in Estonia. These have been the main considerations. If you ask about the discussions, of course, the economic dimension is also on the agenda at all times, i.e. what this would mean for the Estonian economy. Once again, I say that in the short term, the situation has already had a negative impact on certain sectors of the economy, that is clear: tourism, transport, organisation of events. But in the long run, I think an emergency would save worse. These have been key issues in discussions on the announcement of an emergency situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U61	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! A lot of people will be angry, but I'd dare to shake your hand on the text you read. I'd sign it. Politicians always want to go to the extreme first thing. However, what I said does not mean that I would agree with all the texts that have come from the government. Please tell me, what kind of discussions have you had? We have learned from various sources that some ministers have wanted to start with an emergency situation. Please describe the attitude of the government and the legal options available. I think there's an emergency format before the emergency.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U62	Thank you. Dear George Ratas! Your statement was understandable and intelligent. However, I do not understand how the organisation of Kirkorov's concert contributes to the health of the Estonian people. Fans from Latvia and Russia arrive there. How can you not deny it unambiguously? But I also have a specific question. You have given many examples of other countries whose actions you follow in shaping government decisions. At the same time, institutions of higher education in many countries have reported that they are switching to home education, including the Institute in Lisbon, where my daughter works. That's my question. Have you decided to transfer institutes and universities to home education or e-learning? Indeed, it is a very international company and a relatively high risk point.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U63	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I, too, thank you for this meaningful and necessary speech, but in recent days you have repeatedly praised the Minister of Finance for acting actively, and now the Minister of the Interior for worrying about people's immune systems. But I, for my part, thank Minister for Social Affairs Tanel Kiike, who has actually done very well, in my opinion, with his clear messages and operational action. But my question as former head of government to you is this. Obviously, local government leaders are currently watching this broadcast and are also reading the news. What are the specific government guidelines or recommendations for local government leaders in particular? How are they supposed to behave? How could they act? They're the closest to people.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U64	Thank you. I'm sure I'll join in with those good words. I think we might have to come out of our Estonian closet a little bit and look at the wider picture. This was also the reason why I thanked the Riigikogu for your different thoughts and suggestions. I specifically mentioned two members of the Riigikogu, Riina Sikkuti and Kaja Kallas. I think everyone has actually made an effort to achieve a common goal. The whole world doesn't really know the virus very well. For example, let us compare this with a flu that has been studied for decades. What exactly is the consequences of this virus is very difficult to say today. We don't know what its spread is. Yesterday, for example, we read Germany's forecast that 60 to 70% of the population could be infected, which means tens of millions in Germany. The recommendations to local authorities are exactly the same as we are giving at national level. Let's start with the fact that local governments, be they municipal or municipal, don't do foreign missions. When we talk about organising international events, they should be postponed. When we are talking about schools, kindergartens and other educational institutions, where really local authorities are the closest, local authorities have already taken concrete steps in this regard. I mentioned Saaremaa, and Tallinn has also taken concrete steps. And, of course, working together on all this information exchange is very important and important. A lot of people here have been asking about a particular concert. One might ask further that next week is the big day of municipalities, rural municipalities and cities, where hundreds of people will take part. Yesterday morning, when there was a discussion with Tiit Terik, Chairman of the Board of Municipalities and Cities, I said that I do not think it would be wise to do so in the current situation. As far as I know, the decision has been made that this event will not take place. I think it shows a pretty good exchange of information and cooperation. Of course, what was asked about is how local authorities provide support to people who have to stay at home completely. We can't tell all people to order a package home from Selver or some other grocery store, and then the food will come. Many do not have these technical possibilities and do not want to do so. Of course, the main difficulties for social workers fall, but I believe that they will certainly do well. And, of course, the country here is also prepared to provide its own assistance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U65	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! In a sense, colleagues who think that overreacting can cause panic and pointless action can be accepted, but there is certainly a need to take this issue seriously. But has there been such a question in your discussions? When we are talking about closing schools, on the one hand, it can be said to be understandable. But at least in the public debate, I have not noticed the question that although there are messages that the school is closed, the students are very active in different groups of interest and sports circles. Then what's the point of closing schools? Have you discussed this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U66	The answer is yes, we have discussed. Of course, part of education is recreational education. Different circles operate, whether they are ceramic circles, sports circles, music circles, or other circles. Of course, we have discussed this, and I fully agree with you that once one school is closed, we also need to look at what is happening in the circles where these students go. Yesterday, I spoke to a journalist who specifically pointed out a sports circle, some of which had been turned off during training. They said they couldn't come because they were in a risk area. There are quite a number of these examples. Of course, recreational education should not be, but is a very specific part of it. I totally agree with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U67	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, I also thank you for this political statement. It's definitely in place. On the one hand, we need to talk about how to prevent the spread of the virus, but on the other hand, about how to ensure vital services. My question comes from this area that we have vital services: police, rescue and ambulance brigades. What is the situation in this regard? Have any measures been taken in this regard? Has the government discussed how to ensure the functioning of the commandos when, in fact, these people are often in the same room for a long time in shifts? Can we not at one point be in a situation where we are no longer able to provide vital services?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U69	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U70	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good Prime Minister! A number of cases have been reported where people with severe symptoms come home from areas not yet mentioned as a risk zone and ask to be tested, but their testing has been refused because they have not come from a "risk zone'. How good is our medical system's ability to test? You may think that after your performance today, there will be a great deal of appeal to the various medical centers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U71	Thank you. When we talk about test ability, you can say that this capacity is very high today. In Estonia, the test capacity actually exists. If you ask me at the moment if there's anything behind us not being able to do these tests, I'm sure you won't. As I said, there is nothing to prevent hundreds of samples from being taken a day across Estonia, this is not a question at the moment. If you're saying that some people don't get tested, they're individual cases, aren't they? This reason to dissect the Riigikogu from this speech chair is certainly premature. But as far as I know, anyone who says they have symptoms that indicate this infection will be tested. Once again, I say that attention must be paid to the people who come from the danger zone. There are four countries, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is very clearly expanding this circle. And it's not natural for the state to write everything down, for people to have their own sense of responsibility and balance. This example of school best shows that if we take the wrong step, not only will the penguin of an infected student suffer, but in a particular case at least 1000 people, if not 3,000, if they are joined by their family members. What do I mean by that? That if you did this test the first day or the second day after you came home, as I said, the answer could be negative. In any case, the rule of 14 days should automatically be taken as a basis: I will not move among the people, I will stay at home. If these symptoms are not present at that time, it is possible to return to everyday life. But there should be nothing behind the ability to perform the tests right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U72	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You very nicely mentioned the sense of responsibility here. But, you know, I've realized that people still need very specific instructions. It's just that the suggestions go by. As my colleague, Urmas Kruuse, said: the school will be shut down, but people will go to the circles of interest. I would like you to have a lot of strength and strength for the two o'clock special committee sitting, so that you can take very specific decisions. It's good for us now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U74	I thank you for wishing for this strength! For strength! I agree that, of course, it is quite characteristic of society that at one point it is said that very specific rules are needed. Once again, before the honourable Riigikogu, I stress that these very specific rules can be established by the state, but that means going to the next phase. And now the question is whether this moment is today, I don't know, at 11:32 a.m. or not yet. The current level is. I would certainly like to share it with the Riigikogu in an emergency. Estonia is in an emergency. It is possible to go one more step forward from here. But the question is, if we take this step, on the one hand, it should not be done too soon, but on the other hand, there is no point in taking that step any more when the breaking point has been gone. We certainly want to consult experts in all areas as far as possible with the remaining hours. We want to hear from representatives from the social, medical and also internal security sectors. It is a question of taking very concrete steps. And we need to consider in the block of all these issues what this means for the Estonian economy. I know that last night, news came from the fourth power, the media, the press, that a lot of people are switching to home office work today in connection with an event where there was an infected person. In fact, we already have a lot of responsibility. But I agree that very concrete steps need to be taken at some point. The government is certainly ready for this, and that was also one of the reasons why I proposed that the government set up this government committee today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U75	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U76	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! In the current situation, a quick, concrete and adequate response is certainly necessary to save and save lives. But specificity is also necessary in order to control the level of stress in society and in no way to create more stress. You spoke here today about the emergency situation and these recommendations, the recommendations that the government has decided to make. For many, the recommendation still seems to be such a vague situation. My question is that in a situation where very clear recommendations have been made to avoid large gatherings, not to organise them and not to participate in them, and to monitor very closely the health of themselves and their loved ones, which will happen if these recommendations are not met. What happens to people who do not take such suggestions with due care and diligence?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U77	After all, what has happened to some examples in particular? After all, in recent weeks over a month, it has been said that certain regions are at risk, and if they come from there, they must stay at home. If the recommendations are not followed, for example, if I do not follow these recommendations and have come from a risk area or, worse, I am the carrier of this infection, then there is a risk that my friend, my co-worker, my schoolmate, too, might be caught in this infection. I do not know, perhaps this question had more to do with whether legal sanctions were foreseen in the event that these recommendations were not complied with. Yes, we in the government last week decided on this letter or, let's say, the instructions that the Health Board gives to those who are infected or close to them, that if they do not follow these instructions, then there is also what I said yesterday in the Riigikogu Question Time, clear legal sanctions, financial sanctions and, as the toughest option, imprisonment. So the dissemination of infectious disease in society can be sanctioned. These are legal options today. This passage was also written in these letters, and people have to take that into account. Of course, you do realise that this does not mean that the state is about to put someone in prison, but if people do not comply with these requirements, then the state has a strong arm and that must be taken into account. So, yes, in that sense, that is the right question. I remember when we were discussing at government level about ten days or two weeks ago, the question also arose as to what the sanctions are, if the requirements are not met, for example, I am not at home, I am going to the mall, I am going to take out the trash can, I am going to the movies. It is very clear today that if these requirements are not met, there will be a legal power lever. It has been informed today to everyone who is infected and close to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U78	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U79	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! I'm coming back to that Milan and Saaremaa volleyball game. I'm not touching the athletic side. Of course, Saaremaa resisted. But today, everyone will probably understand that the organization of this game was a mistake, especially in the light of the latest news, that the virus has already reached Võru through one of the volleyball players. So, Italy. Saaremaa. Võru. But my question is that so far it has been said that the virus carrier is only a person who is sick with fever, but there were no people on the Italian volleyball team who, as far as I know, would have been sick with fever. Should we not now expand this understanding and say that the virus can be transmitted simply by an infected person, not just by someone who is sick with fever? This is, in my opinion, a significantly different approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U80	Yes, thank you! These are medical questions, but yes, I've also asked if a close relative with no symptoms could be a carrier of the virus. How much chance that is, I'm certainly not gonna assume that today. But, yeah, no one's saying that a neighborhood with no symptoms can't be a carrier of the virus. Such a sentence is not in Estonian medicine as much as I have communicated with people in this corona virus has said. So, yeah, the answer is, we don't know who was infected with this team of athletes in this case, if anyone was infected at home, if someone's friend was infected, if he was exposed to anyone in a public room. So, yeah, he's free to transmit the virus.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U81	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U82	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! The measures decided by the government must be concrete, precise and timely. I very much agree with this rather reassuring message, but at the same time I would point out that the authorities must already be in the greatest readiness. I think a little too much attention has been paid today to what exactly should be the name of one situation or another. We know that none of the announcements themselves will solve the crisis; however, attention must be paid to the concrete steps we are taking to limit the spread of the virus. Support for sectors in difficulty is certainly necessary, but there is a little more time to support it, and we are also prepared to discuss the issue of additional money for the health sector together, also from the opposition side. But I would suggest five things that I think need a very quick answer and should be as specific as possible. First of all, what exactly does this ban on organising events with 100 people mean? Is a concert with 7,000 people allowed or not allowed? We need a clear message here. Secondly, if people are told to stay at home even if people are healthy, do I apologize, I'm a little over time, but I think these questions are important, so I ask you to excuse me, is the message that a family doctor should also give a medical certificate to a healthy person in a preventive fashion? We need clarity here. Thirdly, how can local authorities increase their capacity to support the elderly at risk when they need to order home supplies? Fourthly, what are the precise rules of conduct for schools and kindergartens, as their attitude has so far been very different? And fifth, wouldn't it be wise to limit flights to high-risk areas? Today, too, there is a flight from Bergamo to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U83	Thank you. First of all, about these hundred-person events: I am sticking to the words I said yesterday that no event involving a hundred or more people is wise to organise today. If you ask whether a specific order can be given to the private sector here, the answer is yes, it can. But that requires a second level, a second level, or an emergency situation. If you say it doesn't matter what the law does, it's not right, because we are the rule of law and every party affected asks what it is based on today. There is no such thing today, but as I have said, there is no question that the situation may develop in hours to this point. This is also one of the reasons why I very much wish to hear your opinion today, the honourable Riigikogu. At the moment, it seems to me that the majority, at least those who have asked for and expressed their ideas, will certainly be serious and interesting in the round of negotiations have rather expressed the opinion that one more step should be taken. I think it is very important here to hold a consultation or a dialogue between the government and the Riigikogu. After all, this debate between us today is also fulfilling this task. You asked if healthy people would get a medical certificate. I answered it yesterday, I think it was Keit Pentus-Rosimannus who asked for it in Question Time and I stick to my view that, when it comes to the closeness of the virus carrier and he is healthy, I think that this sick page must be given to him in any case and it will be done today. The question is a little more complicated when a person comes from a risk area. Do they all get a sick list? Like I said, it's going according to the symptoms, and it needs to be looked at by a family doctor. You also asked about schools and kindergartens. I have replied several times that yes, here the government has given very clear and specific regulation: if there is even one infected, this educational establishment will go to jail. I certainly support the issue raised here by Mr Kruus that not only should schools or kindergartens be restricted, but also interest groups should be involved. In any case, they must all be viewed in the set. I think it's a very clear signal. Now that this issue is being further developed, should we introduce general regulation and a full ban? We have a case in the schools today. I know that with this example of Saaremaa, there is now a debate on the aspect of proximity and kindergarten. So, in my opinion, at one point, I also said this, as regards the readiness to close educational establishments throughout Estonia, the government is certainly not afraid to make this decision. But if you do, I think it can be a minimum of two weeks, no less.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U84	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U85	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! I, too, thank you for this report and for your answers. It is certainly the right decision to establish a crisis committee in the current situation. Since the clarity, accuracy and timeliness of the message are crucial for each crisis, I would ask you perhaps to clarify and speak out a little more so as to make it clear to everyone whether there is an agreement on some sort of frequency of communication. There is certainly a need for emergency communications, but there is some general clarity. Perhaps you will also repeat the official sources of information from which people-entrepreneurs can obtain information, because there are a lot of other stories and things spreading in the information room. I want the Commission to have determination, wisdom and judgment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U86	Thanks, you're gonna need all this! If you ask about the frequency of meetings of the Commission, it has been agreed that the Commission will meet every Monday at 11.12.00 p.m. every Wednesday at 8.15 to 9.00 p.m. and every Thursday immediately after the meeting of the Government of the Republic at the enlarged Commission meeting with the Cabinet. I think it would be very reasonable to consider here the proposal made by the chairman of your party, so that we should not have such a joint discussion of political parties at the level of the Riigikogu. I very much support this idea of Kaja Kallas. We have also been in contact on this subject today and found that this should be done as soon as possible and as soon as possible between the parties represented in the Riigikogu. I think it's very right. Now, about getting information. As usual, as I said, the Government's Communications Office, which is attached to the State Chancellery of the Council of the Republic's Government, is being served in this respect by Urmas Seaver, the head of which is the State Chancellery. Through this, messages must come, of course, in cooperation with our partners, and I am thinking of other agencies-ministeries. I would specifically like to mention here what Mr Jaanson put on my heart to get to the hearing people. This is an important observation. I know that the Minister for Social Affairs has already taken concrete steps, but we will discuss it again today. And I want to say to this honorable press balcony up there that I think the Estonian press has communicated this picture very adequately, well and in a balanced way. I think it's very good and sensible. But, as the law requires, we always have the possibility to use national broadcasting as a direct channel, so here too, I think, cooperation can be made even more intense.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U87	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U88	Prime Minister! Let me start with a positive example. Today at 12 o'clock, a speech meeting was to be held here in front of the Riigikogu in the entire People of the Foundation. This event was planned for a long time, but it was cancelled for security reasons. Now to the Troubles, still the example of this Saaremaa volleyball. It seems that our officials have been running under the bar, because in the media, the volleyball people in Saaremaa confirm that they turned to the Health Board for consultation and the agency ran this thing through. Now it's a screw-up in Võru. I think that over-reacting is worse than sub-reacting, because over-reacting is forgiven us. I also worry about the members of the Riigikogu. Hanno Pevkur said that he would watch the fifth-sixth day after he met the Italian volleyball coach, that if there were no symptoms, everything would be fine. But others are advised to have a 14-day rule. I think that members of the Riigikogu should also follow this discipline.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U89	Time's up!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U90	Thank you. Unfortunately, but maybe fortunately, no one has a chance to rewind time. I agree with you that if we could rewind the whole volleyball game case five minutes earlier in time before this team came across the Estonian border, we would do everything so that this did not happen, this step would not have been taken. I'm sure it's a lesson. Who's to blame? Who was lobbying? Who contributed? Unfortunately, this is not going to work right now, but it is a very serious and painful lesson. Those people who cancel some sort of act, as you mentioned as an example, are thanking these organisations, the people of the event that had taken place in front of this Riigikogu building! I don't know exactly who they were, but I think it makes a lot of sense to make those decisions today. Now the Riigikogu. After all, this was my humble request in the speech that, if possible, the Riigikogu should discuss this issue. Understandably, when the affected come to one or another's work group or profession, the question arises as to how we will proceed. I, too, have been thinking, " If the sick come to the government, for example, how to behave. ' The government does not work exactly as the Riigikogu does. We all work with our authorities in our ministries, with the density of meetings with different ministers different. But when we talk about a government meeting, it happens once a week, which, by the way, can also be held by electronic means. What the President of the Riigikogu explained yesterday at the beginning of Question Time is a point of entirely thought or, let's say, such a lesson, but it is unlikely that the Riigikogu will solve this issue today and tomorrow. Let us think for a moment about the following situation: if there is one infected person and the school goes to jail, there is an immediate legitimate question that would, in a similar case, become part of the Riigikogu. It must be considered whether, in such emergencies, the work of the Riigikogu could also be organised through digital solutions, electronic solutions. In my opinion, this certainly must not become the rule, but we are not talking about the normal situation today. So I think that is a very legitimate question. But in the end, these decisions must still be taken by the Riigikogu, and I think that the Council of Elders will certainly make good decisions here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U91	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I think there is no dispute about the fact that a pandemic has been declared, the meaning of which you certainly know. I also think that there is no dispute about Italy being quarantined, where even funerals and weddings are prohibited. And the third thing that we have no dispute about is that the competition in Saaremaa was not the best idea and, in essence, we are currently facing Italian syndrome. Since you have said that you care very much about public health, which I absolutely do not doubt, I am not asking you a question, but I am asking you a great request. Pick up and announce the emergency situation because I do not see a second chance to protect a small, small Estonian country.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U93	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U94	Large decisions, bold decisions made by Heads of State in difficult situations, make them great.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U95	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank you for your statement on the pandemic. Given that today, I think the public interest in this sitting and the viewing capacity are a little higher, yes, what does this mean? What did the WHO say? The pandemic is a transnational and intercontinental outbreak, the direction of which cannot be predicted and which is usually associated with a number of harming factors, such as damage to people, which Mr Metsoja has now dealt with in relation to police, rescue and medical personnel, how these areas are managed, including damage to the health and life of medical workers, damage to the economies of countries, lack of treatment and vaccines, and much more. It's a pandemic. What can I tell you? I'm taking this statement from this hall today, and when we gather at 2:00, your position will also be on the table. But one thing I agree with you a hundred percent. What's the priority number one supposed to be today? This is an Estonian person, as you said. Estonia, whether small or large, is the most adorable for us, and our people are the most important to us, the lives of our people, the health of our people. Yes, these decisions mean certain negative effects, certainly for the economy. But, as I have said many times, be it short-term negative effects and for us to see long-term human health, strong health, and that people's lives are protected or that at least everything is done for them. Then the economy will be able to recover much faster in the future and move forward. So I take your statement very seriously and take it from here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U96	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U97	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! I am here sending the prayer of one of Pärnu's men, Argo Linnamäe, to heaven: come, heaven, help! Namely, he traveled through several airports, coughed, had a cold, and had a fever. And what, as citizens, would we suspect if we went on a long journey and discovered such symptoms? He's done exactly as instructed, but still he hasn't been tested. The E.R. has told him on the phone that this is a common respiratory illness. If you meet at the crisis committee meeting today at 14:00, please note that people who have been on a trip and are ill with symptoms will be tested to make sure that their loved ones, their families, their circle of acquaintances are relaxed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U98	Thank you. I'll take that note from here. This is an important remark and I believe that this proposal needs to be met. So I'm taking it with me.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U99	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U100	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister, thank you very much. I wanted to clarify the question that Mikhail Lotman put forward about our reanimation capability. You didn't give a very clear answer to what our ability is today. Since this committee was only set up in the morning, you probably have not discussed it yet, but when will it be planned to discuss our capabilities or whether and where anything can be built? You once referred to the fact that Estonia is a company that manufactures personal protective equipment, as far as I know, in Estonia it is also a producer of container hospitals. Have they been contacted yet? What is our ability in this area with your current knowledge?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U101	Thank you. Yeah, of course we didn't have time to discuss it in half an hour or an hour. I will certainly take what Mr. Lotman said and what you said, Mr. Onion, on the table at 14:00. What's our ability in the medical field? As I have already said, yes, if necessary, certain health establishments can be reorganised very quickly. This, of course, automatically means that some medical cases, some form of medical care, will be hurt, will be incomplete. But the important thing is that there must be no gaps or power gaps when we talk about a real threat to a person's life. Thank you also for the information that Estonia produces these so-called container hospitals, as you said. I will also take this information with me here and we will try with you, perhaps by contacting you, to find out who is offering them and how. But, of course, we will also discuss this at 14:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U102	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U103	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! Really, the situation changes in hours, as you said. We now know that several people in Võru have been hospitalized with corona virus signs, including volleyball trainers who have been exposed to children. We look forward to the news with heartache. I hope that's good news. During your speech, I have also been told by a number of people who have come from a journey, but not from the countries mentioned as a risk area, who are quarantined at home, but who have not been tested, even though they have symptoms. Maybe we should expand the list of risk areas. Because we know now that the news has come that Denmark has also locked itself. What do you think about extending the list of regions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U104	Yes, I think it's a good idea, it's a necessary idea, it's an important idea to give people a clear signal whether or not they're carrying this virus. I'll come back to what the doctors and medical staff say. Well, let's play this game by coming from Italy, getting to Estonia today, wanting to take a test, it's negative, which doesn't necessarily mean I'm not actually carrying this virus. This infection may manifest, it is said, most likely about 7.1 to 9. on day 14 and in some cases on day 14. It's just, I think it's wrong to say go to work the other day if today my test is negative. I think here you should think that yes, the test will be done, but if it is negative, they say it doesn't mean that it can't be positive tomorrow. Right now, it gives me peace of mind, but actually, you still have to be home for 14 days. But, Mrs Kersna, I certainly agree with what you said and said by Annely Akkermann. As I promised him, I promise you that, in my opinion, if we do this test in the first few days, we must continue to tell the person that this does not mean that in an hour or three days it cannot be positive. Yeah, you can be calm today, but you still have to follow that 14-day rule. So let's try to improve that ability.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U105	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U106	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! I certainly do not want to teach you how to regulate the crisis. There's no one in this hall, and I don't think there's anyone anywhere who knows exactly what's right. But we have been arguing with each other and in this Chamber and in many other places about whether it is right now to declare a special situation or when to do so. It's supposed to be a matter of government knowledge, right? I understand that the main problem why major events cannot be banned is precisely a legal obstacle. The Chancellor of Justice has said that, in fact, there is a possibility of precepting cases. Can you tell me who can do these precepts and exactly what this vessel is? Secondly, has anything happened in the current situation where the legal framework should be changed? Our job should then be to fix it. IS THERE ANYTHING THAT IF WE AFTER DO A RESONS LEARNED AS A STOP IN YOUR WORK? Or do you think the government can do whatever it takes right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U107	Thank you for that question. In general, yes, you can do it. However, the lessons of this crisis, already some principles or things that could be asked by the Riigikogu to amend the law, exist. Are they practically blocking something right now? I don't think that's gonna stop you. But in this, as I said in my performance, we need the help, support and effort of every Estonian, and that we can overcome it together, I am absolutely convinced. Once this crisis is over at one point, surely we should come back to these lessons. One is the same as the President of the Riigikogu has said here, and there was a debate today that, for example, how this work is in the Riigikogu and that, at certain levels of governance, we could make it a little more flexible and operational. All in all, you're right, we don't have the final recipe to do this, or some manual to do this in the morning, at lunch, and then at night, both together. Well, in the end, he is, as you said, that whether we go forward from this emergency to the next phase is very cognitive. And it seems to me today, and I am absolutely convinced that the members of the government are taking it with a great deal of responsibility. It is not the case that we are being carried out superficially, that we do so quickly, or that we do so quickly, or that we do nothing. Indeed, they want to accept the best inputs and then decide. If you ask the Chancellor of Justice for a statement that there is something that can be banned under today's regulation, then I think that if we go into society with this very specific message, regulating these specific cases one by one will not result. This isn't right. Then it must be said that at least the first step must be defined as to how long this situation lasts, that today the situation is such that we do not do these events. This is indeed an opportunity from an emergency situation. What else do I want to say? I think it is also very important to issue such indicative messages. I know that today, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has asked all citizens of Corona-dangerous countries not to come to Estonia. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also already recommended that the residents of Estonia should not plan holiday trips in these areas for the coming months. It's extremely important. But yes, in the case of the level of governance, I think we could really bring the thoughts we have learned from this coronavirus crisis here as soon as possible before the Riigikogu and discuss them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U108	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U109	Thank you, Prime Minister. My question is about the capacity of local authorities and precisely how to increase the capacity of local authorities to support older people, who are just like an endangered group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U110	Thank you. If you don't mind, I'll just jump back to the last question. I'm just touching the local government level. For example, this communication with Saaremaa last night. There is one such once and for all unsolved question of how to make this decision when the municipality, the schoolkeeper, wants to do it very quickly and it is late. Well, there it is regulated very clearly today by the specific regulation of the Health Board and the schoolmaster. But in my opinion, this operationality should in any case be increased, so right now, in relation to these local governments, I remembered this, this place should be re-examined. At the moment, I believe that this did not mean any power gap, because, as I said, the mayor was in contact with both the Minister of Education and Research and the Prime Minister. But this is, for example, a place that should be dealt with. Now, about increasing the capacity of local governments. As I said, the state here is a comprehensive partner for local governments, and without local governments we certainly cannot solve this issue. For the elderly people who are home today and who need help, and certainly, by the way, I think there is a huge part here in this great sense of responsibility that I am not going out, I am now here for 14 days, when I feel badly, I think it is also important for them that we do not do these big events at all. We will also cancel the events planned for the next week at the day centres. There's no point in bringing that danger to our, I don't know, knitting club or any circle. If the elderly need help, local authorities must also provide comprehensive assistance. If the state is in need of help, the state can provide financial support to them today, and the state will certainly be ready for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U111	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U112	Thank you. Prime Minister! Since our transmissions are also viewed from our homes, people will write to us. I am simply reading a question from a person who is in quarantine at home: 'Has the Government of the Republic made any kind of emergency plan in cooperation with private operators or plans to do so, including commercial companies? At the moment, Estonian e-shops, food stores have completely closed down, no orders can be made or, if so, no goods can be retrieved at normal times. Coop was told straight this morning that they were panicking. Where do people in quarantine get their groceries, basic milk bread? '
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U113	Thank you. Well, the first answer would be, to which this writer referred, saying where he would not get the goods today. Indeed, many shops offer electronic solutions and bring home. I understand these systems aren't working right now, or they're jammed. I believe that the next step we have all taken in life at one point is that our loved ones will provide us with help, if that is possible. If that is not possible, we will address our neighbours. If this is not possible, it is best to contact the local government. Now, these systems. I think that this is where the state must definitely come to the aid of the private sector to do everything possible to ensure that these systems are operational again, as far as the state can. I will take with me your remark and that of this citizen to see if any part of the infrastructure of the state is involved in bringing this problem to light.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U114	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U115	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! We are discussing a very important issue here. Live broadcasts are beautifully monitored in several web media channels, but this means that, above all, very many older people are not getting any part of this subject and are not getting the information we are talking about here. We have national broadcasting in the country, for which we naturally expect the debate on such issues to be broadcast to people live. Unfortunately, ETV is currently transferring the 'Hello' replay and ETV2 ENSV programme'. I have a question for you: can you tell us, or do you have information on why national broadcasting does not reflect the current issue by live television?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U116	Dear Member of the Riigikogu, Kert Kingo! The honest answer is that there isn't. I actually thought ERR would do it. But I guess the Prime Minister himself shouldn't call the national broadcasters, because then there would be another matter of interference, whether or not to intervene, etc. If that's the case, as you say, no sad, if that's the case. Here are the very important questions of the members of the Riigikogu, your observations-notes, the speeches of the political groups are about to begin. I hope the private media has filled that gap a little bit. I don't know what Rain Radio's doing right now, maybe transferring what's going on here, maybe not. But your point is quite pertinent and the short answer is sad, if that is the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U117	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U118	Thank you. Prime Minister! I believe that the current broadcast may be the most viewed transmission in the history of the Riigikogu. We also need to think very seriously about people waiting for advice, suggestions when sharing information here. Two quick questions. One concerns action at European Union level. Italy has asked its partners for support. We are now seeing that not only the European Union but even China is sending medical assistance. Right now, there's 31 tons of medical aid on its way to Rome. If the situation gets more serious, and this is probably unfortunately the case, what assistance could we receive from our partners? That's one. The second question is that probably many people who are currently in risk areas or outside Estonia want to return home. If the situation is to get more complicated, even because of air connections, is the government committee also planning to take action here to bring our citizen back home?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U119	Thank you. If the return of the Estonian people to their homes is hit because no connections are working, the unique answer is that, of course, without hesitation, the Estonian people who wish to return to their home country, to their home and, of course, to receive all the services that their health needs here. Now that you are asking what kind of aid Estonia is able to provide, for example, with regard to Italy, we can provide assistance primarily within the European Union. As I have said many times, this aid is actually allowed at the European Council video conference. What exactly is the aid? As Maris Lauri asked, it is on the one hand, I do not yet know exactly, but making the rules on State aid more flexible. There is certainly the possibility of aid linked to the Stability and Growth Pact. Above all, we need to talk about introducing more flexible rules on budgetary balances. It was also mentioned at this video conference that the European Union is directing a significant amount to the development of a vaccine, but yes, it is not tomorrow's aid, it is focused on the future, and that is what we must think about. I know that we have given assistance to the Red Cross; Estonia will certainly be ready to continue to do so if asked to do so. But, of course, we must now also be guided by our own need and how this virus spreads here. Estonia is willing to offer any assistance if asked for. Well, one thing that is not now related to coronavir, but the same migration issue in Estonia was one of the first. The idea of Frontex. Estonia will certainly come to the aid of its partners, allies. The biggest help I ask of the members of the Riigikogu is that if you are in contact with your colleagues from the parliaments of other countries and other people, please pay attention to ensuring that there are no obstacles to borders. I have received this signal today from the Ministry of Social Affairs, too, that barriers to borders exist both within the European Union and in the wider world. We have quite close countries here, beyond the borders of the European Union, from which we expect certain personal protective equipment today. This is where I believe that all diplomatic channels must be used so that these borders are not closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U120	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U121	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! I have a question about individual responsibility. We have learned from you now that if an individual who is a carrier of the virus violates the rules or puts other people at risk and does not follow instructions, it is possible to give him an injunction and, if necessary, punish him. Now the other side is when the local government or an event organiser, the company is doing a big event ♪ in this case, in today's situation, it is not possible to directly prohibit it, we can only give strong and urgent recommendations. Here's the question. Of course, every person's behavior is important and we can help ourselves first, but when we consider the risk of big events, would it not be reasonable to impose a special situation? I'm sorry I'm running out of time, but I also have to say no to the fact that the individual who stays home on sick leave is three days without pay. From there he is paid by the entrepreneur and then by the health insurance fund. Can we be sure that entrepreneurs allow people to work at home and that people can really act responsibly, given their economic needs and childcare opportunities?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U122	Thank you. In my opinion, this is a very important issue of individual responsibility, but also, more generally, private sector responsibility, which, in fact, also at one point, comes back to the individual who is the head of the company or the owner of the company. I really ask from this honourable Riigikogu speech chair all the leaders of the various levels of the private sector and the owners of companies to apply homework as much as possible today, because if anything can be done in the form of teleworking at home, I think it is better to repeat it to this company itself. Perhaps the entrepreneur sees that one or two hours of work or something is not done in a given day, but perhaps in a week it is already a very big victory that the outbreak has not come into the company. So I am very much asking private companies to contribute here. Now, the other side of your question, or one part of it, is the very special situation you mentioned. I will also tell you that I will take this idea from here to the two o'clock sitting. All in all, yes, it's a government decision, but on the other hand, I can't imagine that if we're in such a difficult situation... I do not know whether, in the past, I am indebted to the answer, for example, in the last decade of the last century, the possibility of introducing an emergency situation has been weighed at all. As far as I know, this has never really been established. I think it is only reasonable to hear the opinion of the Riigikogu today. Perhaps a few questions ago I answered that I understand that the vast majority of members of the Riigikogu, at least by reading emotions, are of the opinion that the next stage should be changed. But I'm gonna tell you again, we can't do this all over the place. What matters here is what inputs are provided by specialists from different fields, and I really want to hear them too. But I'll take your thought with me, and I'll sign off on the responsibility of the individual with two hands. If this idea were to be extended to the area of education, there would certainly be a question that if we were to close school now, would it mean two extra weeks in June for this family, for the child? At this point, I would like to say a great deal of thanks to schoolteachers, local authorities and the Ministry of Education and Research that today it has been decided that the school year will not be extended, at least not in this Kristiine gymnasium. Within two weeks, home-schooling takes place. If this is a little less effective, then it is, but I think that it is important that we try to keep Estonia's way of life in the most reasonable and normal rhythm possible during the summer. The pursuit of such flexible solutions is, in my opinion, justified today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U123	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U124	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Thank you very much for today's address and also for answering questions. Partly good fellow Kert Kingo has already asked me a question. I, too, was surprised to go to my office to bring the computer, opened the Estonian National Broadcasting Channel ETV and there came a "Hellovision" rerun, although there could have been a transmission of the current sitting with a sign language translation that would have reached a very, very large number of people, especially the elderly. It seems to me that many things don't have to be assumed. If you assumed, as Prime Minister, that the ERR would make this transfer, then perhaps it would have been reasonable if the communication team that works for you with the Government of the Republic had contacted the ERR. My question, however, is that yesterday, in Question Time, you gave the answer that yes, the factsheets will be sent to people by direct mail in the mailbox, I very much hope that this will be done. But if you are discussing this with the crisis committee this afternoon and you are discussing the issue of local governments, please recommend that local governments also send specific telephone numbers where older people can call, for example, when they get food or something else, because they are definitely different in Tallinn, Viljandi, Tartu and Pärnu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U125	Thank you. First of all, I come to the subject of national broadcasting. I don't have headphones in my ear, I don't know exactly what's been going on here, but as far as I know, Rain Radio is carrying or carrying over some part of today's discussion. How much it was, I can't tell. And as far as television is concerned, yes, your criticism or suggestion or comment is relevant here in any case, I also said so to Mr Kingo regarding national broadcasting. Sharing information with local authorities that they, too, use their information channels to pass on these specific telephone numbers, places, I don't know, e-mail addresses, data on specific persons, in any case, I will pass on this proposal and consider it very important. It is clear that local governments have more information channels, and in smaller places people also communicate face-to-face, during which information leaflets or ordinary A4 pages can be delivered to people with these numbers. In any case, I also wrote down that remark.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U126	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U127	Good President! Good Prime Minister! I understand that there is an ambiguity as it is at the moment, but there is not yet a situation. I have two completely specific questions. One touches schools. How many more cases should it take to establish quarantine for even two weeks? And the second question concerns my own child personally. Tomorrow, international competitions will begin with 378 participants, Elegance Cup in beauty gymnastics. We have still not received an answer as to whether or not this can happen. There's a lot of confusion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U128	Thank you. You understand that no matter what number I say out of this speech chair, there is now another case, two or three, and then all educational establishments are shut down, it would not be very reasonable or balanced. I'm saying that maybe there's no need for any more cases, maybe we need to start with the situation today when there are people who are ill, I hope I'm not wrong with this information. Perhaps there is a need to seriously assess the spread of the virus, especially in relation to recent cases, and to consider that perhaps we are already in a position to close down educational establishments if we wait for the number x of the infected or their immediate vicinity. It is clear that in Estonian society, there is a very large number of people who can carry the virus to any infected person, and from there it will certainly spread out in the direction of educational institutions. Now this next question of yours, which relates to a sports competition where, as I understand it, there are several hundred participants, including a lot of foreign athletes and coaches. That is a very legitimate question. In this discussion that is here today in the Riigikogu, it seems to me more and more that the organisers of the events need to be given a specific, clear message. That would make sense, that would be necessary, and that emotion would be transferred from here to the government commission. Today, when I say whether or not this children's competition is taking place, I would simply be whacking in this Riigikogu speech chair and legally my words would not be based on anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U129	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U130	Prime Minister! I'm asking about the dissemination of information. The Russian-speaking community is a significant part of Estonia's population. It is understandable that, in a crisis situation, it is important to communicate information in an understandable language. This depends not only on the well-being of this community, but primarily on the well-being of the entire Estonian society. It is also known that next week the commercial channel PBK will stop broadcasting Russian-language news about Estonia. Are you still planning on passing on some Russian-language information? And if you are planning to, who have you decided to cooperate with, either Radio 4, ETV+ or anyone else?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U131	Yes, thank you very much. I think it's a very important question to give this information, complete information in three languages. I think it is important to provide information in Estonian, Russian and English. Speaking specifically of Russian, I do not want to say that this is a paradoxical situation, but yes, you mentioned a private channel that has been very much talked about in this Chamber. The fact is, of course, that a lot of Russian-speaking people living in Estonia are watching this channel, we cannot get over it or around it. When asked whether we are planning to intensify communication with the channels that exist in Estonia, the answer is, of course, that it needs to be focused. Not only Radio 4 and ETV+, which are important, but there must also be a request for help from private media, especially online publications, because we know that we can wait seven days for paper pages before the next page appears. The information just changes so fast. I also want to say once again that I think that the online media has behaved and given help very quickly. What you said to keep it on the table all the time, yes, I agree with that one hundred percent.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U132	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U133	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! President Trump locked up America, and I think that, or in our opinion, Estonia should also use much more forceful methods. We should also lock Estonia. But I'm asking you what's stopping it now and how those moods were inside the government this morning. How many people are in favour of locking Estonia, at least for a while, and, for example, the transfer of teaching to e-learning, such as Kristiine's school or universities? After all, we are an e-governance. How many people think that maybe this problem will go away and not have to use such powerful methods?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U134	Thank you. I think those who think we're going home tonight, and tomorrow morning everything's gone, there's not one in the government. Everyone understands that this situation will not ease in the next few days or weeks, but will become more serious and, unfortunately, deepen. Now, in order to lock Estonia, I answered this question from the very beginning. This would mean establishing border controls, setting a temporary border. That, in my opinion, would also mean the exclusion of certain international associations, I am not even saying that there is a restriction. Those signals, you could hear them in the morning. We will come back, as I have said in answering many questions, to this issue definitely after lunch at 14 p.m. I understand from your point of view that you specifically have a desire to strengthen border controls. It seems that very many members of the Riigikogu have the same sense of feeling as far as this debate has been today. Of course, we should be balanced, not over-decided, so that we have more powerful mechanisms and levers of power. I cannot say that no one would categorically oppose what you asked for, but we did not discuss locking Estonia directly this morning. However, the topic was the limitation of certain connections, the limitation of international connections, which concerns the direct connection to Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U135	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U136	Thank you! Prime Minister! Power to you and strength to the government and determination to make decisions and a clear word! I have a question about the crisis committee you set up. I am surprised that there is no Minister of Culture in this crisis committee. I would like to remind you that there have been several questions about all communication in this Chamber. As regards media issues, especially national broadcasting, they are in the hands of the Minister of Culture. But let us also think that cultural events are taking place in Estonia this evening, tomorrow evening and the weekend, with a large number of people, tens of thousands of people meeting in different halls at concert halls, cinemas, museums, theatres, sports halls in the same way, people doing recreational sports, meeting in tournaments, playing ball and going to the choir. Perhaps the presence of the Minister of Culture in this committee would be very necessary to give a clear message on how to deal with these situations.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U137	Thank you. No minister has been cut off from the government's work. It is simply, at one point, when such a Commission is done, that it can always be said to be a whole government. But today, the government's deliberate decision was that we make the Commission exactly in the composition that I read to you. I fully agree that the Ministry of Culture has very important subjects in its administration. Today's contact with Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas is very good. I'm sure his bet will be there. I agree with you that if we now take this very concrete step forward from here, you are quite right to say that it concerns all the concerts, all the theatres, all the cinemas, etc. Yeah, that's right. And, of course, if we now consider whether this committee could make decisions in such a way that the Minister of Culture would not be involved or would not be welcome in this debate, of course he is welcome. This committee does not set any strict limits so that we cannot invite anyone else. Of course we can. And when we talk specifically about these issues, what you said is the only thing that makes sense. But the creation of this committee needed some kind of concrete approach, and it was the Government's wish today to do just that. No member of the government needs to feel excluded here. And it seems to me that as of this morning, those who were didn't feel that way either.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U138	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U139	Good chairman of the sitting! Good George! I also wish you strength in this difficult situation, where you, as Prime Minister, must make the final decision and wear the buck you have. I don't really have a question, I only have a brief comment. Now that the spread of the virus has entered a new phase, the national phase, we are in a situation where voluntary or recommended measures no longer help. We have clearly reached the stage of mandatory or compulsory measures. That's all I got.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U140	Dear Leo Kunnas! Thank you for this statement, as I have thanked so many here for this very concrete input. I'll take it with me. What am I saying? Yes, I understand that, in the end, it can always be said that in such a situation, the responsibility for decision-making lies with the government and the Prime Minister. There is no way to escape or to flee from this responsibility, and these decisions must be made. But it has been extremely important to me that I have had the opportunity to work in this Chamber, to hold this debate and to listen to your opinions before the government goes to make any decisions. I think with all my heart and with all my heart that we are crossing it, but it can only take place in very close cooperation. When I think about that Question Time yesterday, when we were discussing this subject, somehow it's a completely different state. It seems to me that we all want to do our best and that everyone is doing their best to get out of this situation as quickly as possible and with as little losses as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U141	Thank you, Prime Minister. No more questions for you. However, the members of the Riigikogu have a wish for negotiation. In doing so, there may be political group representatives and the speaking time is, as usual, 5 + 3 minutes. First, on behalf of the Group of the Reform Party, I would like to ask Kaja Kallas. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U142	Thank you. Prime Minister! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Corona virus has a strong influence on everyday life and economic activity in Estonia. The situation in Estonia is serious and therefore the Estonian government, authorities and political parties must act in a uniform manner. Our aim is to ensure that society continues to function, albeit in a limited way, but still works. We need clear messages and specific instructions as soon as possible. If this requires a state of emergency, this must be done. The emergency situation provides an opportunity to make decisions in order to communicate these clear guidelines to society. We also need clear guidance as soon as possible on whether and under what conditions people can stay home from work without fear of loss of income. This requires effective and rapid cooperation with the social partners. We need clarity on state support for employers if workers are to be left out of work more widely. People need to know that they can stay home without fear of losing their income. The emergence of a state-wide solution to the issue of income preservation is critical for further combating the spread of the virus. Secondly, municipalities, public administration leaders, entrepreneurs need unambiguous and clear guidelines on how to organise studies and the work of public institutions and manage large labour groups. Thirdly, in preparing for the economy to cool down, we need to start by getting a clear picture of our country's financial opportunities. We need a realistic overview of the existence of unemployment funds, sickness funds and other government reserves. Then we can think about how to complement these reserves, if necessary, and increase the flexibility of the state budget, in order to mitigate the negative economic effects of coronavir. At the same time, we must also make sure that we do not panic about spending, but that we take steps that are actually well targeted and very clear. Fourthly, the first front of the fight against coronavirus is the Estonian health care system. We should allocate more money to health institutions and the social system in a forward-looking way, because the costs and special needs of the virus may be longer than we can imagine at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U143	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the Group of the Centre Party, I would like to ask Kersti Sarapuu for a speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U144	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen and, of course, the good people of Estonia! For two and a half hours, our Prime Minister fully and meaningfully answered all the questions of our ambassadors. These were very important questions for every person in Estonia. The Centre Party Group supports the Government's decision to designate an emergency threat as an emergency and to put in place the necessary measures in this regard. The most important thing, however, is human health, and there is no precautionary measure too much on this issue. As a mother and grandmother of five, I put social interests first instead of personal interests. As an entrepreneur, I understand that redeployment in companies requires a great deal of effort, which will cause quite serious economic damage. I would like to highlight the organiser of Tallinn Music Week, Helen Sildnat, who adopted a difficult but inescapable decision to cancel the internationally highly appreciated music event Tallinn Music Week. Tiit Pruul, published in Postimees today, was also sympathetic, in which he called on politicians not to make the coronavir into a political toy. It is important to note that most of Estonia's viral cases relate to people who have come from high-risk areas. At the same time, we must be prepared to limit the spread of the virus on the territory of Estonia as a whole. Estonia has done well to contain the corona virus and there are enough beds in hospitals. The level of operation and information can be found on the website of the Health Board. We trust our top specialists. The worst thing we can do right now is to cause unnecessary panic. I understand that every person has his or her own opinion on his or her situation, but I know that the government and the relevant agencies are keeping an eye on the situation 24 hours a day and are ready to react promptly. Populistic statements can lead to significant distractions. It is important to react, but not to overreact. Good listeners! The Corona virus has tested not only Estonia but also several other countries of Europe and the rest of the world. This is a good opportunity to show the same sense of belonging as at a singing party and to come out stronger together. For my part, and for the Group of the Centre Party, I would like everyone to be cooperative and understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U145	Thank you. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U146	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! First of all, on behalf of our group, I wish you a lot of strength to take action in this situation. Yesterday, the EKRE Group addressed one of its good coalition partners. After a long time of consideration, I decided I'd read it here. I say right now that we are not going to contrast ourselves with this in any way to our good coalition partners, on the contrary, in today's situation we need a coalition acting as a single punch fist and we need action. With this appeal, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party gave the government a concrete input and I will read it now. One of the fundamental rights of a person is the right to life. As leaders of the Estonian state today, we are responsible to our people. In the event of the global spread of the Corona virus, our main objective must be to minimise the conditions that endanger the life and health of Estonian people. The properties of the coronavirus are unknown to the end and there are sufficient examples of delayed response. The crisis situation has arisen in northern Italy, and according to the statements of the recognised medical staff there, the implementation of stricter restrictions and preventive measures was two or three weeks late. The faction of the Estonian Conservative People's Party considers that more vigorous measures are needed in Estonia to control the corona virus and prevent more damage. We must be ahead of events, not react afterwards. We realise that stricter restrictions and measures are causing inconvenience to people and businesses, but the aim must be to avoid significantly greater damage in the future by responding in a timely manner. The ECRE Group considers that the following measures are needed: Control at the borders, in the interests of the security of our people, must be exercised over all persons entering the country. For those arriving with fever or other specific symptoms, the obligation to test for coronavirus must be imposed. The country must not be allowed to enter the region with a virus risk, and all arrivals from abroad to Estonia must adapt to 14 days of home quarantine. On Monday 16 March, the work of schools and universities must be stopped and, where possible, schools must be transferred to e-learning. Compulsory restrictions on public gatherings and organisation of events must be imposed for a period of at least one month. Persons remaining in home quarantine who are not hospitalised must receive a clear message that if they do not comply with the conditions for domestic quarantine, they will be subject to compulsory quarantine or other statutory sanctions. Our group supports the introduction of an emergency and, if necessary, an emergency situation in order to implement these measures. Certainly, we do not want to frighten anyone, to be cautious and to act proactively, even if its advantages are only revealed afterwards. Once again, we fully support the Prime Minister and fully support all government ministers. It was simply our message that we are waiting for concrete and serious decisions, which, I believe, will be taken today anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U147	Thank you. Priit Sibul, on behalf of the Fatherland Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U148	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I am a little embarrassed because I was going to start my speech by thanking all of us. Yesterday, there were politicians in this Chamber, I think, as it should be, but today I am pleased to see that I was among the statesmen. There was a substantive debate. With his statement to the coalition partners yesterday, Siim, I think he ruined it a little, but as he said, they trust the government. So let us stick to this position and hope that the government will carry this situation, including the EKRE Ministers. The keywords that have carried Estonian society in recent days are'responsibility' and 'handwash'. Thanks to the Health Board, we all know today how to wash our hands by taking on palms, palms and fingertips, but I think it's just as important to remind people that all our electronic devices, TV remotes, are also worth cleaning over from time to time, because otherwise the washing of hands is of little use. The emergency has been announced and the government has set up a Commission in the morning and discussed various measures. Regardless of what we call the situation, what matters is how we behave and what we do. The government has adopted measures and decisions. We do not create panic, but we certainly do not seek unreasonable peace because the situation is new to all of us. Consequently, we must monitor and respond adequately to what is happening very closely and closely. The Prime Minister said that he would bring a number of questions and topics to the debate in the Government at two o'clock. In the media, there is a disturbing line, I think that such mysterious things or disinformation should certainly be overturned, that allegedly those thermal cameras that are in ports and airports are not working. I think that the government must certainly discuss this issue as well. It must be clear to the people whether they are working instruments or whether they are there for some other reason, or whether they are soothing or what they are. I think that it is certainly not in anyone's interest to have a debate on whether or not some measures are working or not. We need to listen to specialists and keep an eye on the situation, as I said. Today, it is clear that this situation has not only an impact on human health. We are a small and vulnerable economy. There is no point in turning it on yourself, as Mr Kallas and many others have said, but we must take this matter seriously. It's a virus that affects our condition. Perhaps we should think as the Germans think. Yesterday, the German chancellor said that perhaps there is also a need to revise the budgetary rules in this situation and to rethink them. I wish all of us a common and peaceful mind and the power and wise decisions of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U149	Thank you. And now, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to ask Indrek Saare.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U150	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I certainly want to join the idea expressed by several colleagues from this speaker. Today's debate has been constructive, and I am sure that, in a critical situation, we will also be able to proceed from here with a constructive debate, which we have repeatedly proved as a nation at critical moments. But this, of course, means that we must be ready to act, we must be ready to analyse and assess the situation adequately. We must trust the experts, even though it has not always been part of our political practice in these situations lately. We need to be critical enough about the things that we ourselves have said when it turns out that things may not be quite what we initially felt, perhaps there is no way to lose our sense of criticism in this context. And let us ensure that we start fighting over the fact that perhaps someone is too critical of the proposals they say, because the balance must definitely prevail in this Chamber. That is why we have different people here, representatives of different political worldviews, so that we can find consensus. But for the Riigikogu to still be able to work in this situation, I really hope that in the near future we will be happy that, at least by tomorrow morning, it will be time for the Assembly of Elders, that the Prime Minister's proposal today will at least have so much influence on the Board of the Riigikogu, that tomorrow morning we will finally get together with the Assembly of Elders and talk about what can actually be done, so that we can work even if we have to be quarantined and, at the same time, perhaps we are expected to change the laws. Let us not forget that, in addition to good people, those who have been chosen and set must be able to make decisions, because decisions must be made, they are more pleasant or less pleasant. That is why I call for no delay and no postponement of decisions. At this point, however, I must be critical. We have already talked about information on several occasions today, and a good colleague, Helmen Kütt, has pointed out several times how the Social Affairs Committee, ten days ago, discussed the need for older people to be sent a physical newsletter to the mailbox because they do not use modern means of communication. But to this day, we are discussing how to send this paper, even though at the time everyone agreed that it was a good idea. Let us not create such delays, we will at least try to ensure that information is disseminated properly in this situation. I very much ask, ladies and gentlemen, especially the coalition, because very much depends on the attitude that coalition takes in order to take very seriously what the Group of the Social Democratic Party has highlighted this morning as a possible situation. This is a situation where people are expected to be quarantined and stay home without being directly ill. A recent study confirms that most people, over half of them, even go to work sick. On the other hand, under quarantine conditions, where everything is abstract, we do not know what this threat really is, to say that I am giving up my income for several days, or to tell the employer that you have to 4. pay me for the day, even though I'm quarantined and I'm not directly ill, it could be a break. This may be a place where people are forced to make decisions, especially those who have less income and cannot live from their savings at that time. People have to make a decision. Let us make it as reasonable and understandable as possible, making it as less burdensome for employers as possible. Therefore, I ask that we really urgently take up the Health Insurance Act and discuss what we are capable of doing in order to respond adequately. This is not only about people at work, but also about children at school, for example. If the child is left at home, who is he staying at home with? Is he staying with a grandparent who's a risk group, or is he staying with a parent who should be at home with him? This immediately raises the question of the next decisions by all local authorities, which they will actually have to make in the event of a crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U151	Would the waitress like an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U152	Yeah, I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U153	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U154	Thank you. So, I ask that we react quickly, we quickly discuss this situation and help society to behave adequately, while, of course, maintaining peace and behaving in a balanced way, as we have always been the people. I would like to thank and congratulate all those people who are already working today in the medical field to solve this problem and who have done so in a highly professional manner. I wish all of us strength, peace of mind and balance! Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U155	Thank you. We are now in a situation where we are running out of time. We have yet another item to discuss, and the Prime Minister would also like to make a final statement. I therefore put to the vote the proposal to extend today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put to the vote the proposal to extend today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. There are 53 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The hearing has been extended. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U156	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I thank the Riigikogu very much for this opportunity to hold this debate today. I think it was well-needed, and I feel that this debate was substantive. I thank you for your reactions, your senses and your opinions, as well as all the political groups who have expressed their positions. I promise you that the government will take this situation with immense responsibility. In my opinion, further close cooperation between the Riigikogu and the government is very important. I'm doing everything I can to make it happen for the government. Thank you very much for this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U157	Thank you, Prime Minister. I, too, thank my fellow Members for their very fruitful discussion and for being unanimous in difficult and difficult times. On behalf of the Riigikogu, I wish the Prime Minister and the Government strength and strength!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U158	We are going to the second item on today's agenda, the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on liquid fuel initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Mikhail Korb, member of the Economic Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U159	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to continue on the agenda with the Liquid Fuel Act. Indeed, the Commission has discussed this draft law at least twice and has done some pretty thorough work. Before the Commission met, there was an engagement event with market participants, attended by representatives of the Ministry and the Commission. There was quite a long and substantial debate and maximum efforts were made to find solutions both at this meeting and later at the meetings of the Commission. A total of seven amendments were received, six of them were made by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and one was submitted by the Centre Party. A major debate took place on the proposal of the Centre Party and on the proposal of the Ministry of Economic Affairs concerning statistics by half-year in 2020. The Centre Party's proposal sought to solve the problem of interpretation of the law. When you read the law, you got the impression at the time that trams and trolleybuses were inside the law. But if you read the explanatory memorandum, it doesn't include trams and trolleybuses. MKM agreed that such inconsistencies should be avoided. It was agreed that since trams and trolleys are part of road transport, these statistics should also be allowed to be traded. The situation was resolved by stating the corresponding clarification in the explanatory memorandum and the Centre Party withdrew its amendment. Statistics trading accounts for six months were discussed at two meetings. The first meeting found that an annual reporting period could be applied instead of a half-yearly reporting period in 2020. The amendments were prepared and approved for the next meeting. The remaining amendments first concerned a type of fuel that would not be subject to the regulation of the Liquid Fuel Act. One amendment corrected the error that excluded the 10% annual commitment from 2021. The following amendment concerned the change in trade in statistics, according to which future statistics may be sold outside the auction in the digital environment. If such future statistics are not sold by the time the statistics are produced, these statistics can only be sold by auction. One amendment improved the situation where the deletion of certificates of origin has not yet taken place in time to allow the required amount of statistics to be transferred to the digital environment during the reporting month. The subsequent amendment improved the gap allowing the excise warehousekeeper to allow acceptable fuel for consumption outside the excise warehouse without the duty warehousekeeper being obliged to prove that the fuel complies with the quality requirements. The last amendment regulates the entry into force of the law. The date of entry into force so far was 1 March 2020, which is not realistic when looking at the timetable. The new date of entry into force shall be 1 April 2020. The Commission unanimously endorsed all the amendments. It was decided to close the second reading and to propose a third reading of the draft and a final vote on the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-12_U160	Thank you. Looks like there's no questions. Would you like to negotiate? It seems that there is no wish for negotiations either. In that case, we must review the amendments. The first amendment has been proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, and the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The third is also the proposal of the Committee on Economic Affairs; the lead committee recommends that this be fully taken into account. The fourth amendment is again tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, and the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Five amendments come from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take this fully into account. The sixth proposal has also been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the commission recommends that it be taken fully into account. The last amendment, the seventh amendment, comes from the Committee on Economic Affairs, and the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. All amendments have been confirmed and the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 126. Second reading is complete. I thank you all, and the hearing is closed. Closure of the sitting at 1.09 p.m.
