ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 7th working week. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to pass on drafts and enquiries? There is no request for referral of drafts or enquiries. Ladies and gentlemen, presence check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U2	78 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 23. Attention, clarification of today's agenda. Liina Kersna, Member of the Riigikogu, will make a presentation by the initiators on today's first item.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U3	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal to the Government of the Republic to organise the work of Estonian basic and general education institutions on a uniform basis under the conditions of the COVID-19 virus." Please waitress Riigikogu member Liina Kersna!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Once again, we can discuss something of substance, not how or what the members of the government are saying. I am before you with the proposal of the Reform Party Group for the Government of the Republic to establish common foundations for the organisation of teaching in basic and general education institutions in the event of the proliferation of the COVID-19. As we know, § 37 (5) of the Constitution tells us that education is supervised by the State. Recently, we learned from the OECD's PISA analysis that the Estonian education system provides our children with as equal a chance to receive a good education as possible. And really, live in Väätsa, Lüllemäe, Antsla or the city centre of Tallinn, the likelihood that our children will receive a good education is still very high. At the same time, international studies warn us of distance learning, as this form of learning can increase the educational gap. Stronger ones continue to do well, but children with special educational needs, for example, may lag even further behind. This is a threat that we must consider. At the beginning of the school year, the Ministry of Education and Research said that if an infected person was discovered in the class, the class, not the school, would go to distance school. If 10% of the school family is infected, the whole school goes to distance school. Today we see that schools are closed even if there are one or two infected. It was only recently that we saw a school with more than a thousand students sent to distance training when the infected one was discovered among the school's kitchen aunts. A number of schools have already been pre-empted for hybrid education, where classes are regularly at school and at distance. There are schools where children, for example, spend two days in school contact training and three days in distance training in one week, and vice versa next week. And there are schools where there's one week of contact training and another week of distance training. For prevention purposes, small-class children are also sent to distance education, those with special educational needs and those in particular need of direct contact with the teacher. Today, a wide range of studies have been carried out in the world on the period of spring distance learning. These studies mostly speak of the negative impact of distance learning on the mental health of children and young people. The mental health of younger children has been affected, especially in family frustration And it caused tension in the family, which clearly affected children. The mental health of teenagers was affected by the lack of communication with their peers, which is vital for young people at that age. And children's mental health was certainly affected by the change in their relationship with the teacher based on research. Teachers came into a new situation very unexpectedly, and they too had to learn a great deal. Some teachers did better than others, had to adapt to digital tools, and this changed the relationship between students and teachers. At the same time, we know that the basis for successful learning is that the teacher and the student have a relationship of trust and warmth. Schools in Estonia received a very good distance learning experience here in spring, and some schools have also used distance learning as a new learning method in the new academic year, and this has nothing to do with a virus prevention measure. It's all legitimate, you can do it yourself. We submitted our proposal to the Government of the Republic to formulate general rules for the organisation of teaching in educational institutions during the COVID-19, in early September, on 14 September. However, unfortunately, this draft came to the proceedings of the Committee on Culture only at the end of October, 26 October. And today we're here at first reading. A lot has changed since then. The Ministry of Education and Research has now, at the beginning of November, published a guide for educational institutions, which consists of 14 points. It largely takes into account the principles set out by the Chancellor of Justice, which he formulated in response to parents who wanted to know from the Chancellor of Justice whether their children had been sent to distance education on a legal basis. The Chancellor of Justice has written to parents and emphasised three things in particular: there must be a legal basis for the implementation of distance learning either in the school's rules of procedure or in the curriculum; the organisation of distance learning must ensure the availability and quality of learning, and certainly distance learning must be supervised learning, not just independent learning. And it must certainly be a preventive measure, or if the school is infected, sending a school to a distance school is coordinated with the Health Board. Despite the fact that the Ministry of Education and Research has issued a guide, school practice continues to vary greatly. So there is a real risk that our educational stratification will increase rather than decrease. We have to remember that this virus is here, and it's probably not going anywhere in the near future. We must learn to live with this virus and we must learn to provide our children with the best possible education even when the virus is with us. We must not allow the virus to be sacrificed because some children's abilities cannot be developed. So I ask for your support for the proposal that the Ministry of Education and Research should draw up as precise guidelines as possible and common foundations for all educational institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U5	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U6	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In the title of this draft, there is one very important set of words: 'on a single footing'. We are now in November, and we need to talk about possible common solutions or guidelines, for example, in the case of schools, only now. In the spring we also criticised very much government communication precisely because the messages that came to people were completely wall-to-wall. Please tell me what may be the reason that by 1 September the guide was not ready, but this guide is now ready. And why, by applying a certain elementary logic, according to which the onset of the outbreak towards autumn was almost 100% likely, was the guide still undeveloped?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U7	Thank you. In mid-September, the Ministry of Education and Research published its original guide. Likely, it was general enough, so the schoolkeepers felt that they had to take the lead and make their own rules. And we have seen this very clearly, above all, in Tallinn, where the city gave specific instructions that children should be dispersed in schools and therefore children were sent to distance learning as a "prevention measure." Parents are clearly very struggling with the fact that, for example, a ninth grade student, who is facing final exams, entering high school, must study mathematics, chemistry, physics two days a week in contact training and three days a week in distance learning, where there is no real tutoring. Of course, both parents and students are very concerned. And I know cases where, for example, some schools have started taking private classes in groups on Saturdays to keep themselves on the line to graduate properly. We should not allow such a situation as a country.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U8	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U9	Thank you for your word, dear Deputy Speaker. Good waitress! What support and cooperation with social services are proposed in practice for children with disabilities and special educational needs? I also recall that Tanel Kiik has confirmed good cooperation between the two ministries before the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U10	Thank you for your question. I myself have asked the Minister of Education and Research and the Minister of Social Affairs for this House of the Riigikogu, but I have not received an answer to whether any real steps have been taken to prevent children with special needs from suffering from distance training. Because the spring experience showed us very clearly that children with special needs were caught in the gears. This has also been said by the House of People with Disabilities that their education was very poorly organised because everyone was sent home indiscriminately, including those children who studied in very small groups. And clearly, parents have no competence to teach children with special needs. There was a big gap. In today's guide, the Ministry of Education and Research has said that sending children with special needs to distance education must be taken very seriously, and every possible support must be provided for them. But in reality, we see that, as a preventive measure, small-class children are also being sent to distance education. So it's a mess, yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U11	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U12	Thank you, Vice President. Good waitress! It is very nice that we are all concerned about Estonian education and our students together here. Obviously, we don't have to prove to each other that we really hurt our hearts. You have pointed out that there are a number of schools with more than 1,000 students, where in one of the cases discovered, the school is closed. I know cases like that too. There has been a quite flexible reaction, i.e. the school is closed for a short time, the school has been disinfected and after that all other students are allowed to return to the school. Maybe there were different cases in the spring than there are now. At the same time, you will bring out, or your faction, that you want uniform rules, i.e. rigid rules for all schools. However, I would argue that, depending on the situation, we need flexible rules, and they exist. And if we put these flexible rules in here, what would be different from the current situation after we adopt this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U13	Thank you. The problem is that there is a clear over-reaction right now. The Chancellor of Justice has also pointed out that we should not allow fear to guide us when living with the virus. Of course, if you're a schoolmaster and you're afraid that if you have one infection, then you might have a lot of infected people in that school the next day or week, fear has been overreacted. In addition to the Chancellor of Justice, the Ministry of Education and Research has admitted this. I certainly do not think that we should make rigid common ground. There must definitely be flexibility inside. That is why the Health Board needs to be consulted in order to discuss and decide which restrictions would be useful in specific cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U14	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I want to be more specific. You said the Ministry of Education and Research has already completed some sort of rules, but they are not quite final. Could you elaborate on that, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U16	Thank you. On 5 November, the Ministry of Education and Research has published a document on its website entitled "Organisation of Distance Studies', which contains 14 points. It highlights the most important principles that must be taken into account in the organisation of distance learning. For example, distance learning is not suitable for all students. If the school knows that it is not suitable for a student, it must also be provided with contact education. Or the way in which distance training is legally organised. This is what we are not aware of ourselves, even schools are probably not aware of before: the possibility of distance learning must be written either in the school's rules of procedure or in the curriculum and it must have been negotiated with the board of trustees. It can't be that someone just comes up with an idea and we're about to apply it. Distance learning must not come as a surprise to anyone, nor to parents. It is certainly important, and here too, the Ministry of Education and Research document stresses that in the case of distance learning, the burden on parents must not remain, but distance learning must always be [teacher] supervised education. But yes, this document was published on the website of the Ministry of Education and Research on 5 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U17	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In your report you referred to the fact that there are studies and the knowledge that, in the case of distance learning, part of the education of children may remain incomplete, based on their opportunities, habits, personality and the ability of parents to support this education, not to mention teachers. Do you have any examples that you could say that distance learning is very well organised? Do you think it would be reasonable that, even though there is no virus at school X, it would be reasonable to practice that the school be prepared in case the virus enters it? So that no one would be surprised and everyone, the whole group with parents and children, would you be ready?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U19	Thank you for your question. In fact, distance training in schools gradually began to be applied even before COVID. For example, the Tartu Private School created a new school - SädeTERA, which is mostly only in distance education, sometimes they go together. The Rocca al Mare School has also tried to apply distance learning. Just recently, I went to Põlva Upper Secondary School, where the 1+2 method has been used for this academic year, which means that one week of contact education is for children at school and two weeks of independent learning, not as a method of virus prevention, but as a means of teaching gymnastics about independent learning and better planning of their time. They are now analyzing their experience, which was good in it, what was bad. They are likely to be switched to a hybrid method where those who are better suited to only contact training can only have contact training, but those who were more suited to independent learning can continue to learn 1+2. What is important is that those schools that apply distance learning voluntarily have also provided each student with a contact course if the students feel that they need it. Those in Põlva School, for example, can also come to school at any moment and get advice from the teacher when they need it. This knowledge is very important for students as well as for parents when a child is in trouble, so I know that I always have the right to turn to a teacher.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U20	In this item, each member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask a question to each of the rapporteurs. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, We're talking a lot about school education right now, but I'm also interested in kindergartens. To what extent has it been regulated now? Is there more clarity or ambiguity? I understand that this bill would also concern early childhood education, kindergartens. Could you open up some of that side?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U22	Thank you. That's right, that's the question. We certainly believe that there is a need for common ground for early childhood education during the corona virus, because there is still more confusion in early childhood education than in schools. The general attitude has been that toddlers must be able to go to kindergarten because if they cannot go to kindergarten, parents will also not be able to work. But it is important to keep employment, to ensure that parents can work. According to current knowledge, the experts say that young children are not as sensitive to this virus and do not spread it like larger people. We have seen different practices in kindergartens, but there is certainly a need for common positions on this issue as well. It is currently not regulated by the Ministry of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U23	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! Thank you very much for bringing this up. Do you think that the heads of kindergartens and schools need more specific arrangements and more specific regulation than has been the case so far in order to take their decisions? Because the current regulation of the Ministry of Education is quite general and lays down general principles. However, if the director at that school is facing these problems, he or she will still have to decide, in the long term or in a broader sense, whether to spread the disease or to limit it or to use these measures. And he's the headmaster, not the virologist. Do you think the director needs instructions to handle himself better?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U25	Thank you very much for your question. One thing is instructions. We saw, for example, in nursing homes, where the state placed a great deal of responsibility on the managers of nursing homes, and then, of course, people tend to overreact because nobody wants other people's deaths on their consciences. It's perfectly understandable. Yeah, well, one thing is instructions, but the other thing is that the heads of school feel that the state is supporting them alongside them. Not as much coaching as supporting. For example, we have cases where a teacher gets sick and gives lessons at home on a computer, so the children are at school, but the teacher communicates with them electronically. Has the state thought about how we have a substitute teacher system? If a teacher gets sick, how do I know as a headmaster that if I don't have a substitute teacher, where do I have to go to get a substitute teacher or an assistant teacher? If a teacher really teaches children by electronic means and this actually happens in part of Tallinn schools, do I have to put in a class assistant teacher who can maintain order? I think there are important places where the state can offer greater support to schools, and it is very important that our teachers get a supervision. This is clearly a very tense time for teachers too. They have a very big responsibility, they need to re-orientate very quickly. And that's the kind of long-term stress that doesn't seem to end. It is therefore very important that the state, or even the local government, offer teachers a supervision so that they do not burn out.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U26	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U27	Thank you. Good waitress! Do you think there should also be separate precepts or rules in these guidelines for the Tallinn City Government, which continues not to take into account the maximum authorised size of the class kits, and therefore instead of trying to disperse students and leave the school open and leave the students for contact training, they simply send them to distance learning?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U28	Thank you. When we prepared this draft, we also discussed whether these guidelines should be as mandatory as the state says you have to act like this, or whether they are recommended. And we decided that these are indicative, because local authorities are independent, autonomous and have the right to decide. At the same time, once again, we must come back to our constitution, which I quoted at the beginning, that education is carried out under the supervision of the state. So this is where the balance is. That if the state clearly sees that something is going to be done very badly somewhere and that getting children's good education is under attack, or possibly under attack, then it must intervene. But at the same time, we must also maintain the autonomy of the local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U29	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U30	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Having been the headmaster of the school and now talking about how to say, with former colleagues just preparing the same law, my question was what they thought of this law. Most said that they do not see that this law makes any sense because the headmaster is autonomous and he is not stupid. To be headmaster, it's still a long way to go. And the municipalities are in the back too. The guidelines that come through the Ministry of Education are sufficient for them to carry out their duties, and they will pass without this law. If you want to make laws and you have time, do it, but the headmasters don't see the need.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U31	Thank you. Firstly, it is a proposal for common guidelines for the Government of the Republic. We are not talking about a bill in this sense. School leaders are certainly competent, but they have mostly acted in normal situations, not during such a crisis. We know that very many parents have turned to the Chancellor of Justice with concern that their child has been sent to distance education for reasons that are not the most understandable. Because there has been misunderstanding and resentment among parents, and we also see that there have been different approaches, we also decided to put forward this proposal. At the same time, we see that the Ministry of Education and Research has actually also thought in the same direction as in the Group of our Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U32	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm listening to you, and I'd like to ask if you could say in a little more specific terms what you'd like to see differently. I understand that, in terms of the form of governance, this is similar to what the Ministry of Education has put forward today: some kind of guidance-recommendations on how educational work should be organised. I understand from this document that you have concerns about the rapid introduction of distance learning. This is actually reflected in the instructions of the Ministry of Education. So what do you practically want these instructions to be different?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U34	Thank you. First of all, when we did this bill, there were no such instructions. These instructions only came last week, which is already quite well, and these instructions clearly take into account the Chancellor of Justice's observations on what was previously poor. When we presented it at the beginning of September, a lot of things were very confusing. But if you look at today's guide and ask me what's missing, there's no state support: where do I get substitute teachers, where can I get assistant teachers, how can I better support teachers who really have to teach in this situation? To have at least some of these guidelines more specific, including for children with special needs. I say that despite the fact that we now have a pretty good guide from the Ministry of Education at the beginning of November, the practices are still very different. For example, in some schools with three or four pupils in the class, children with special needs study at home as a preventive measure for a week. It's not okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U35	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I now ask Helle-Moonika Helme, Member of the Committee on Culture, as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U36	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good drafter Signe, who is not here today, and Liina, who you reported this bill! I believe that we all share concerns about the education of our children in the situation where we are now. On 14 September 2020 the Group of the Estonian Reform Party initiated the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Proposal to the Government of the Republic to organise the work of Estonian basic and general education institutions on a uniform basis under the conditions of the COVID-19 virus'. The draft proposes to the Government of the Republic to develop a plan for the organisation of the work of basic and general education institutions in the area of government of the Ministry of Education and Research under the conditions of the COVID-19 virus, together with guidelines for the implementation of changes on a uniform basis throughout Estonia, ensuring a safe school environment for students and teachers. Neither the political groups nor the committees of the Riigikogu submitted amendments by the deadline for amendments, 7 October. There were opinions: one submitted by the Ministry of Education and Research and two came from the Chancellor of Justice. The Committee on Culture discussed the draft at its meeting on 26 October. As the date of publication of the recommended guide has expired at the time of the first reading and final vote in plenary, the Committee on Culture proposed that the new date for making the guide available be set at 15 December 2020. This is also reflected in the list of amendments that were made for the first reading of this draft decision, and it reads as follows: replace the sentence "no later than 1 October 2020' in the last sentence of the text with the sentence "no later than 15 December 2020'. The date laid down in the original text of the draft had passed by the time the draft was first read. The amendment proposed by the Committee on Culture stipulates that this guide must be made available at the latest on 15 December. The representative of the initiator of the draft act supported this amendment and the opinion of the Committee on Culture, as the lead committee, was that it should be fully taken into account. The representative of the initiator of the draft act agreed to a new date at the meeting of the Commission and considered that if the guide was made available by 15 December at the latest, it would give schools and kindergartens the opportunity to make the necessary restructuring by the beginning of the new year, i.e. the beginning of the new school quarter. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu, Aadu Must, Head of the meeting, Merje Noorlind, took part in the minutes. Helle-Moonika Helme, Signe Kivi, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Heidy Purga, Katri Raik, Jaak Valge, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi and Marko Šorin also took part in the committee meeting. There was no Mikhail Stalnukhin. Anu Peljo, Head of the European Union and International Cooperation Department of the Ministry of Education and Research, and Rita Kask, Adviser to the Office of Vocational Education in the Department of Secondary Education, were also invited. As representative of the initiator of the draft act, Signe Riisalo, the Committee on Culture, first presented to the Commission a draft which was launched on 14 September. The Ministry of Education and Research has completed its previous information on the organisation of the work of basic and general education institutions on 22 September and now on 5 November. Today both materials are available on the Ministry's website. Viktoria Ladynskaya-Kubits referred to the fact that the local authority was autonomous and asked the rapporteur how the guide would work in this case. Signe Riisalo replied that this was not a mandatory guide. Helle-Moonika Helme said that recreational education is not only part of education, but is in many ways also linked to entrepreneurship, and asked how much guidance would be mandatory for them. Signe Riisalo replied again that this was a recommendation. According to Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, sports clubs also expect guidance on how to behave in this situation. Heidy Purga asked what the Ministry of Education and Research was evaluating the draft. Signe Riisalo replied that she had not communicated with the Ministry and that she assumed that the position of the Ministry in relation to the Guide was favourable and positive. Signe Kivi pointed out that according to the draft, the government had to realise the proposal by 1 October and asked whether the guide to be drawn up could be used to organise distance learning for other reasons. Signe Riisalo replied that yes, when it comes to other reasons for e-learning, this possibility exists in schools. Some schools have already tested it and introduced it into the organisation of their curriculum. Mr Black asked the representative for the draft, which could be a new date for making the guide available. According to Signe Riisalo, this could be determined on 15 December 2020. This deadline gives schools the opportunity to make the necessary restructuring before the new year, i.e. before the new quarter. Mr Black proposed to propose an amendment to the draft Committee on Culture: to replace the sentence 'not later than 1 October 2020' in the draft by the sentence '2020'. Council Regulation (EC) No 659/1999 of 22 March 1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of Article 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (OJ L 83, 27.3.1999, p. 1). Commission President Aadu Black also proposed that the draft be referred to the plenary assembly on 12 November, a final vote and the appointment of Helle-Moonika Helme as Commission representative. Finally, it was decided to propose an amendment to the draft Committee on Culture: to replace the part of the sentence 'not later than 1 October 2020' in the draft by the part '2020'. Council Regulation (EC) No 659/1999 of 22 March 1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of Article 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (OJ L 83, 27.3.1999, p. 1). There was a consensus on this in the Commission. Second proposal: to put the draft on the plenary agenda and to conclude a final vote on 12 November 2020. There was a consensus on this, too. And the third proposal: to appoint Helle-Moonika Helme as co-rapporteur. There was a consensus on this too in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U37	Thank you. You have questions too. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U38	Thank you very much, Honourable Vice-Chairman. Good Helle-Moonika Helme! Although your presentation was very detailed, for the sake of accuracy, I am going to ask one thing in the draft decision that was presented. How and whether the central government will guide schools on the guide and its implementation? Was that what we were talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U39	This issue was not discussed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U40	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U41	Thank you. Good waitress! Can you tell me if the Ministry of Education has explained why this guide was only ready by the beginning of November? Because, as far as I know, the school year begins in Estonia on 1 September and we had four months from spring to complete this guide by 1 September. Did the representative of the Ministry of Education explain why, by the time the school started on 1 September, we had no instructions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U42	Unfortunately, such a question was not put at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and therefore could not be justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U43	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I ask the same question that I asked the previous waitress: does the Ministry of Education have a guide on kindergartens today?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U45	This issue was not discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, but, as has already been said today, there is new material on the website of the Ministry of Education and Research. We all have a chance to go and get acquainted.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U46	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U47	Thank you. Good waitress! If I understand correctly, you mentioned that there have also been three opinions on this draft: two from the Chancellor of Justice and one from the Ministry of Education and Research. I looked at the Riigikogu website. It was not possible to find these opinions there. Where do you find them?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U48	I think if you ask, you will definitely get them from our Committee on Culture. I have these materials from the Committee on Culture. And if you're interested, really, the guidance of the Ministry of Education and Research is now this guide, which is from September 22nd. And then there are two opinions from the Chancellor of Justice. One is about distance learning in Tallinn schools, and the other is about the legitimacy of the student's assignment to distance learning. I think if you want to get to know them, our Committee on Culture officials will give you these materials.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U49	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Marko Šorin, please, on behalf of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U50	Good vice chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It is gratifying that we are bringing this virus up again and again in this big hall. The second wave that has struck us is not because the virus has somehow become smarter or changed its behaviour, or because it is like a tick looking for a new victim while ambushing and moving, but because of a change in human behavior. Only yesterday came the first news that the world pharmaceutical industry has made positive progress in the development of a virus vaccine. As long as there is no cure for this wicked disease in the world, or until this infection is completely lost from the world, that is how long we live in an emergency. By introducing more rules, we can create a situation where responsibility falls exclusively to those who set these rules. At the same time, Estonia, as a small country, loses its most advantage of being flexible, constantly taking into account the situation. So there wouldn't be this so-called peasant wisdom disappearing from us. We do not need another document with rigid rules, but awareness-raising. Excessive rules hinder decision-making on the ground, perhaps again the same excessive restriction to the loss of peasant wisdom. At this point, it's like an open door invasion. As one of the questioners also pointed out, what would really change if we adopted this draft? The government and the Health Board have shown that they are working hard, and the measures so far have been quite effective if we also look at the disease figures in neighbouring countries. So why any more rules for us? We have these rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U51	Mr Ossinovski, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U52	Thank you, Mr President. I will say a few concluding words on the subject of this debate. One of the advantages of the Estonian education system is that school leaders have a beautiful broad autonomy in organising the educational process, and that is correct. This is confirmed by international studies. The educational process that has been written down in centrally over-regulated curricula actually shows worse results than what we have achieved in the last 30 years as a result of the work of our good teachers. But it is not worth making the wrong conclusion of what has been said here today in some speeches, that the head of school and the school should be responsible for everything that goes on in school. This autonomy, which is important and good, which should be maintained and developed, is of an educational nature. The school manager does not have and is not a specialist in all areas. We do not think, for example, of fire safety, that any school manager could approach this issue with the wisdom of a peasant and look at how to organise evacuation plans, what should be the doors between different sectors and what kind of fire alarm system is needed. No, we don't think so. I think that, in fact, the most effective and appropriate way to manage this process is to take this responsibility from schools, to give it to the Rescue Board, along with appropriate procedures, in order for schools to be prepared for such situations. The spread of the epidemic communicable disease is similar in nature. It is not reasonable to assume that school staff, including the school management and also very many schoolkeepers in the small Estonian municipalities, should bear all the responsibility in what way it is most effective to control the spread of the virus. They are not specialists in this field, they do not want to be specialists in this field and very many of them do not want to make these decisions themselves. They would like to receive recommendations from competent people who have learned it and who are paid to have effective antivirus in Estonia. Consequently, I think that a nationwide system of common ground, which instructs and advises school leaders and school managers, is entirely appropriate. To argue with that, although every school manager knows best, I think it's not adequate. Undoubtedly, flexibility should be maintained, which is undoubtedly maintained in this proposal. So I think it is not a bad idea to make such a proposal to the Government of the Republic in a general situation where, obviously, when entering the second wave, the government's work has far from been adequate in terms of how management decisions have been taken on the basis of the objective information available. Even if the virus spread forecasts were only received last Thursday and were only asked for the first time last Thursday, you could have asked your own scientific council earlier. But it was necessary to hate minorities, and the allies were clearly set priorities. Last Thursday, too, when these forecasts were in hand, which show that, in fact, until the end of the year, the situation is at least deeply worrying, no decisions were made. On which the Chairwoman of the Scientific Advisory Board also said that she did not understand why the matters discussed last Thursday would not be decided until Tuesday, as if there were still time, although that is certainly not the case. So I think that it is time for the Government of the Republic, and actually the State in general, to put itself together systematically as a matter of urgency before it is too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U53	Monster Black, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U54	I have a question as to whether a good colleague, Mr Evgeni, would be willing to speak again, because I heard about a third of the words here, but they did not become a general picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U55	No, we can't do the reconnaissance, but it's possible to read everything about the verbatim later and get into it. Heidy Purga, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group. Hopefully, all the ambassadors will hear. Heidy will speak loudly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U56	Thank you very much, dear Deputy Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, As my colleague from the Reform Party, Liina Kersna, also said when presenting this draft decision, the Reform Party presented its proposal to establish a common basis for the Committee on Culture in mid-September. Our aim was for these common bases to be drawn up by the beginning of October. Looking at the signs of infection, it has to be said that this guide is urgently needed at the moment and, in fact, it is not too late. Even the Chancellor of Justice has in the meantime responded to various complaints from parents, where he has made it very clear how to organise distance learning legally. It has given rise to very clear implications for society and, in fact, for the government, which, in summary, means that this work is not clearly well organised or communicated. Yes, today the Ministry of Education and Research has prepared an updated guide, which consists of 14 points, but nevertheless, as we know, school practices are still very different. And there is a risk that our educational stratification will increase rather than decrease. In any case, then, it is important that, at this difficult and dangerous time, we are able to provide every child with the best possible education, and that the school leaders also feel more confident that everyone's work is well organised and understood. And another aspect, which has been said a little, or even little, here: it must be said that this is a particularly serious mess, especially in the level of pre-school education. This also applies to very small children and kindergarten teachers. So please support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U57	Thank you. There is no more wish for negotiation by the political groups, so the negotiations are closed. One amendment to the draft has been tabled; it has been tabled by the Committee on Culture. The position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on a draft of 242. We are going to the final vote, and I would remind you that a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is needed for the draft to be adopted as a decision. Honourable Riigikogu! I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic to organise the work of Estonian basic and general education institutions on a uniform basis under the conditions of the COVID-19 virus'. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U58	38 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 42 against, no abstentions. The draft was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U59	Let's keep going. Today's second item: First reading of Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the National Broadcasting Council of Estonia, submitted by the Committee on Culture. I would like to ask Aadu Black, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U60	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the National Broadcasting Act, the National Broadcasting Council is composed not only of experts but also of politicians, one from each political group, and, in connection with the recall of Urmas Reitelmann, the EKRE Group proposed to appoint their new representative to the National Broadcasting Council, Anti Poolamets. The Committee on Culture discussed this statement on Tuesday, 27 October. In view of the fact that this right of submission has been granted to the political groups, the [Cultural Commission] has dealt with only one technical issue: it has carefully examined that all formal requirements are properly met. The point is that a number of preconditions have been put forward for a member of the National Broadcasting Council, which must certainly be met. The Seminar Office gave the Commission its written consent and confirmed that there were no legal inconsistencies in its appointment as a member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council. According to the law, the appointment of a member of broadcasting is discussed at one reading and no amendments to the draft are proposed. That's all for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U61	Thank you. You have questions too. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U62	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Can I ask what expertise did the performers highlight as a candidate's strength in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U63	I also looked at previous documents, just in case, and I discovered that no political group has done this on presentation of its members, even when we first appointed them. In this case, however, we must trust the powers of the political groups. This evaluation is entrusted to the political groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U64	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I would like to hear your opinion. Is a person who says that he will not base his decisions on analyses and studies in the future, but will decide how he feels?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U66	Yeah, here are the nuances of interpretation. There is certainly a need to take into account which legal frameworks have been put into this post at all, and there is no way to get past them. On the other hand, it is a strong logic that a member of the Riigikogu is free in his decisions and assessments and must act according to his conscience.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U67	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U68	Thank you. According to the National Broadcasting Act, only the Committee on Culture can be proposed to the Riigikogu to appoint members of the Supervisory Board. On the proposal of the Committee on Culture, the Riigikogu can make this decision. In the spring we appointed members of the council from among the experts, and then you were there on the remote. You were asked by an expert board member about compliance with the National Broadcasting Act, which you yourself had very deep doubts about. You said that by May 27th, this person would have to bring his status into line with the law. During the summer, such various statements were made both by you and in your direction, and you promised to sort this out somehow. How have you handled this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U69	As they say, some things are relatively free and conscientious, but on certain points, the final decision-making is the responsibility of the lawyers. And indeed, there have been legal disputes about this. We will, of course, get back to this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U70	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U71	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You answered Kristina Šmigun-Vähi's question that a member of the Riigikogu is free in his opinion. However, a member of the Supervisory Board appointed by the Riigikogu performs the functions of a member of the Supervisory Board, and I think it is important that the member of the Supervisory Board understands his role there. When I listen to the question that Mrs Šmigun-Vähi asked that if a person decides only on the basis of his own feeling, is this still the appropriate approach to performing the functions of a member of the Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U72	The answer to your question was already inside, I appreciate your opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U73	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U74	Yes, thank you! As we all heard yesterday, Riigikogu member Kalle Grünthal submitted a draft amendment to the Broadcasting Act to the Riigikogu procedure. As Chairman of the Committee on Culture, how does it seem to you that the new member of the Board of Broadcasting, if we approve it, will take account of this draft? Since the coalition has come up with a bill, he's probably going through good practice. Can we now assume that one member of the Broadcasting Council will also take these principles into account when voting in the Broadcasting Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U75	Yes, all officials must operate within the space and limits provided to them by law, that is clear. However, with regard to the law on national broadcasting, it seems that there will also be major debates on this issue in the Chamber, as the Committee on Culture has also raised the need to amend and supplement the law on national broadcasting. Both Kalle Grünthal and the Commission's drafts are likely to have to be consolidated and a great deal of work is ahead of them. It is clear that the new member of the Council must be governed by the law. It cannot be said, however, that this bill must be based, because it is only a draft, not a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U76	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You indicated in your reply that some legal disputes still exist with one of the spring candidates. Wouldn't it have been wise to wait for a new member to be appointed there and first to solve the earlier problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U78	Obviously, these problems need to be resolved first, which can be resolved immediately. And at that point it was very good to hear in the Riigikogu's costaaires that the exchange we are talking about today took place. No further proposals to discuss it or to put it in line were received.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U79	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U80	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, You are a very long member of the Riigikogu, as well as a senior member of the Committee on Culture. Have there ever been so many differences of opinion and problems and questions about the competence of these candidates in the case of members of the Broadcasting Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U81	There have been differences of opinion, but not specifically on this issue, but there are always differences of opinion. In response to both the questioner and the other members of the Commission, or to the whole large Chamber, I say that, fortunately, the Committee on Culture has always been able to discuss these matters soberly, seek consensus where possible and quite often find it. Very rarely have we had to vote. That's the answer. I don't know what else to add. Thank you for your good words.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U82	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U83	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Does the number of questions asked today qualify by the word'many', 'little' or 'expected'?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U84	That is certainly to be expected.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U85	Evgeni Ossinovski, on this item, every member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask a question. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U86	Thank you. Mr. Waitress! I looked at what the Anti Division had said to the public. And it has to be said that it's exclusively politically charged and it's like that, so who's by whom and see what they're like,'me and the world' or 'we and the world'. Is there such a political charge in the ERR Council that everyone protects some sort of niche? I can give an example of what I read about him last time, how he found a post on Facebook, watched who spread it, and then based on it, he built the whole international world again. Is that how the ERR council works, looking for enemies? Is this how the ERR is monitored?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U87	Thank you. I especially liked that Internet scan. Indeed, Internet opinion has become a very important part of our society, and Sientometry, as one of the branches of reference science, has begun to specialize in Internet research and also in carrying out sociometric tests to whom and so on. It's an exciting area. On the other hand, when I have looked at the national broadcasting protocols, it is interesting that a large part of the opinion of the speakers is politically charged. And apparently we will have this topic again when we start discussing the amendment of the National Broadcasting Act. For this simple reason, it has also been asked whether there should be politicians or specialists there. As soon as we send politicians and a representative of each political group there, he is much more political than the Council, which is specifically made up of specialists. It is not necessary to name the names of those whom I have mentioned in the protocol and whose performances in the National Broadcasting Council have been heavily politically charged. They're from very different political parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U88	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U89	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! A year and a half ago, on a proposal from the Committee on Culture, we appointed members of the National Broadcasting Council from this Chamber. It is now time and one of them has left the Council. How do you assess the work and activities of the outgoing member, Urmas Reitelmann, in the ERR Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U90	Unfortunately, I did not realise that I should have called for this or made contact with the Chairman of the National Broadcasting Council and asked for an assessment. I still don't have a direct lever to do this job to appreciate what he's doing. No written or oral or telephone statements have been received from the National Broadcasting Council regarding its activities by the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U91	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 280 on the draft and we are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu! I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the National Broadcasting Council of Estonia, submitted by the Committee on Culture. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-10_U92	48 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 29 against and 4 abstentions. The decision has been taken. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. That concludes today's agenda and closes the session. I'll see you tomorrow.
