ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the second Tuesday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is possible to start by handing over drafts and enquiries. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U2	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, I am handing over the draft law on the amendment of the Fisheries Act, which was launched yesterday in the Committee on Rural Affairs. The point is that when fishing for ink and herring, they switch from Olympic fishing to reference quotas. This is a major step forward, which has been discussed for a long time and for which there is quite a lot of interest. I hope it becomes the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U3	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to transfer drafts and enquiries. The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes this bill in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act. Incoming check, please! 84 members of the Riigikogu registered, 17 members are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U4	Let's go to today's agenda. Today we have one item on the agenda: First reading of Bill 115 on Supplementation to § 3 of the Psychiatric Assistance Act initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. I would like to ask a member of the Riigikogu, Helmen Hunt, to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U5	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased to introduce to you the Act supplementing § 3 of the Psychiatric Assistance Act, initiated by the Socialists on 3 December last year, or Bill 115. The draft amends the psychiatric...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U6	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, waitress! Let's focus on the waitress! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U7	I can talk you over, too, if you want to talk. The draft amends the provisions of the psychiatric assistance law governing the provision of psychiatric assistance to a person with reduced capacity. According to the regulation in force today, a young person under the age of 18 will not be able to receive psychiatric assistance until the consent of his or her parent or legal representative. In the extreme case, you can apply for permission from the court instead, but it will take time. Delaying treatment, however, may lead to worsening of the disease and delayed treatment may no longer be as effective. Thus, the provisions of the law unduly prevent the provision of psychiatric assistance to a considered minor by restricting his or her right to self-determination and the right to high-quality medical care without reasonable delay. On 3 July last year, the Chancellor of Justice addressed to the Minister of Social Affairs a proposal to amend Article 3 of the Psychiatric Assistance Act in such a way that a sufficiently mature and prudent young person under 18 years of age would have the right to give informed consent to psychiatric assistance. Today, the legislator has left many health issues, such as vaccination, dental care and reproductive health, to the doctor's assessment of whether a specific child or young person is mature enough to decide on their own treatment, but this has not been the case at the moment when psychiatric treatment is given. The law currently in force requires that parental consent is always required in addition to the consent of the child, i.e. there is no possibility of providing psychiatric assistance without parental consent. In most cases, children come to a psychiatrist's appointment with a parent, in which case the psychiatrist assesses the need for treatment, and the child and the parent agree to the treatment. More and more teenagers, however, turn to a psychiatrist alone, without involving their parents. Such cases occur in hospitals in Estonia every month. There are also cases every year where parents or one of the parents are categorically opposed to psychiatric care, despite the young person's own desire for help and the psychiatrist's assessment of medical reasons for treatment. These claims have also been referred to in the explanatory memorandum and come from the Chancellor of Justice's 2019 review of Children and Youth. The Chancellor of Justice has emphasised and the initiators of the draft consider that parents usually come and should be involved in the provision of psychiatric assistance. There are exceptions, however, if this is not possible, for example, if the parent is working abroad or stays away from home for a longer time, and there are cases where it is not in the child's interest to include the parent, for example if the child is a victim of domestic violence or if the parent himself or herself has mental health problems. In today's legal area, a minor who suffers from depression, eating disorder or addiction cannot be helped in time, who has turned to a psychiatrist and who is medically well-founded and who is sufficiently mature to consent by a psychiatrist. Thus, there is currently a conflict in matters relating to children's health in the Estonian legal area. As studies show, most mental health problems develop during childhood or early adulthood. Up to 50% of mental health problems occur even before the age of 14. Thus, early intervention, awareness and timely assistance may mean that the later onset of mental health disorders is stopped and their onset reduced. Many disorders are preventable and many are also treatable. In accordance with this draft, the discretion of the incapacitated person shall be assessed by a healthcare professional. A health care professional is obliged to inform the disabled person of the importance of involving a legal representative or any other adult person who is reliable for him or her. Thus, a legal representative or other adult incapacitated person shall be involved in the treatment process at the request of the minor himself. The person involved may be a grandparent, an adult sister or a brother, another relative, a social worker or any other person who is a close adult. I would like very much to thank the Head of the Children's Rights Department of the Office of the Chancellor of Justice, Andres Aru, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Psychiatric Society, children's psychiatrist Anne Kleinberg, Adviser of the Health System Development Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Ingrid Ots-Vaki, Adviser of the Education Organisation of the Ministry of Education and Research Piret Liba, Adviser of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, Kristi Rekandi, and, of course, good colleagues in the Social Committee for a very constructive and supportive discussion. I would undoubtedly also like to thank the Government of the Republic for its position in favour of the draft Act 115 supplementing § 3 of the Act on psychiatric assistance initiated by the Socialists. There are ten days left to propose amendments, and the Social Democrats are very open to making this draft even better, to discussing and introducing further proposals, so that an acceptable law can become good and make people's lives even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U8	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U9	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Thank you very much for opening this issue here in the big hall. We can be reasonably sure that this bill will have the power of law. We know that there are very few child psychiatrists in Estonia. I've heard there's about 25 of them, but it's gonna take a lot more than that. Please tell me if a minor must go to a child psychiatrist or if he can go to an ordinary psychiatrist.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U10	Thank you very much for this question. This is a very important issue, because there are indeed child psychiatrists and, to be honest, there are very few ordinary psychiatrists. There should be more so that there are no long waiting times. But in order to get help, a child does not necessarily have to go to a child psychiatrist, but he can also go to a regular psychiatrist.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U11	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I understand that this current draft, which you have tabled, concerns young people aged 18 years. However, unfortunately, in my opinion, your draft does not correlate with the General Part of the Civil Code Act because, as we know, persons with reduced capacity include those who are mentally ill, insanity or otherwise unable to manage their activities and operations. It is clear from this wording that mentally ill people also have the right to apply for these activities without a legal representative. Perhaps there should be some kind of amendment or amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U13	Thank you very much for this question. You are right, the draft law is worded in such a way that it also concerns adults with reduced capacity. In the explanatory memorandum, we have focused in particular on the problem raised by the Chancellor of Justice and the children. Indeed, within ten days of the proposed amendments, the explanatory memorandum and, where appropriate, the text can be amended. We cannot allow unequal treatment. For example, in other areas, as I referred to here before, as regards dental and reproductive health, adults with reduced capacity have the right to make these decisions without a guardian or a court-appointed representative. So in this sense, I thank you for this question. In the presentation by the Social Committee, Signe Riisalo, a good co-worker, will certainly address this issue more broadly. It is likely that both the explanatory memorandum and, where appropriate, the text will have to be amended. We cannot treat adults with reduced capacity unequally.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U14	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U15	Good manager! Good waitress! I read here that if you want to have an abortion or give up vaccination, and if you're considered, it's possible. The other option is that you are not a rogue.. what does it even mean that you are not capable of being considered? But my main question is: how big is this target group of children or young people who may have depression, eating disorder or addiction disorder and whose parents are abroad or who are victims of domestic violence? How big is this group of kids or kids we're doing this law for?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U16	Thank you for your question. Indeed, I said that today the legislator has given the doctor the opportunity to assess the decisions on vaccination, dental care and reproductive health in relation to health issues. Perhaps you have the right to have a valid abortion law in which such a right already exists. With this bill, no more such right will be granted, but we will be talking about rights in the context of the law on psychiatric assistance. Getting psychiatric help today is difficult for minors. As the Chancellor of Justice said in his review and also said by Anne Kleinberg, the child psychiatrist who attended our committee meeting, turns to a young psychiatrist every month, but psychiatrists cannot help them because the law does not allow it today. How many of these young people are there? We can tell you how many children we have under the age of 18 and how many of them go to an older psychiatrist. I'm sure that data is there. But what's really important is that if we also have one, two or ten children, considering that we actually have very few children, and we want our children to be treated on time, if one law makes even 10, 20 or 30 children's lives better, it's worth accepting.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U17	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I really liked the answer you just said, but I want to clarify one thing. The current law unduly hinders the provision of psychiatric assistance to a considered minor by restricting the minor's right to self-determination. Now this right is intended to be granted, but the child's discretion is assessed by a healthcare professional. Could you please explain a little bit about what level of health care professional will evaluate this discretion?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U19	No health care professional is also intended for psychiatrists. When a minor turns to a psychiatrist or, if necessary, to a family doctor, he or she will be discussed and explained that involving a parent, an adult would be reasonable and helpful to a young person, as there is often a need to buy medicines and everything else. But if a minor, if this law enters into force, refuses to involve an adult here, it may be, as has been said, a case of domestic violence, in which case the victim may be a member of the same family, then the parent will not be informed. With the consent of the child, the minor, the Social Security Office will also be contacted if necessary, for example to receive support for the purchase of medicines. In particular, the assessment of the ability to exercise a physical advantage is that medical workers • we trust them, they have the appropriate knowledge, they get an overview of whether a child is able to assess the situation, and they get an understanding of it through conversation and questioning. If I'm quite honest, our young people are very clever and good. This is also demonstrated by the growing number of those who realize that, for example, in the case of eating disorders, timely turnarounds can save them from future problems. And it may be that young people do not want to grieve their parents because they have problems and problems. This bill would give them the opportunity to see a doctor themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U20	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U21	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! In 2016, the Social Democrats, as well as the Chairman of the IRL, Margus Tsahkna, made great efforts to facilitate gender change. They said in their joint document that it was important to recognise the sex of a person based on their own knowledge. According to their plan, all men were to have the right to claim that they were a woman, and women could demand that they were a man. Is this bill also intended to simplify some of the gender changes? We know from Sweden and England that this issue is particularly big without parental permission and with the help of a psychiatrist to boost the desire for sex change in teens who may be mentally confused and who will then change sex without parental permission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U22	Thank you very much for your question and your quote. This draft certainly does not address this issue; it does not open any doors for gender change. I'm just going to give you a list here, just like the explanatory memorandum says. And when I say quite frankly, I think that when a young person turns to a psychiatrist and he is confused, the psychiatrist will undoubtedly inform him that it would be useful to include an older adult representative. He speaks and answers his questions. Doctor Google is not always the best way for a young person to get answers, neither are street friends nor any other group of people who affect him outside the medical office. So believe me, this bill will benefit those people and, above all, young people who have mental health problems. If these mental health problems are such as to call his identity into question, when he is 18, he will start making these decisions, regardless of what his parents think.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U23	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I understand your concern, but I personally feel that the adoption of this bill is not very necessary. This is because, in a sense, there is a blank rule in the Law of Obligations Act, which you are referring to here, too. Paragraph 766 (4) of the Law of Obligations Act provides that, in the case of a incapacitated patient, the obligation to obtain consent and the right to a legal representative of the patient is to the extent that the patient is unable to consider the pros and cons in a responsible manner. So, let's say, to a certain extent, this incapacitated person still has the right to psychiatric assistance. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U25	Thank you very much for your question. If you are looking at § 3 of the current Psychiatric Assistance Act, there is no reference to the Law of Obligations Act. You quoted the amendment proposed in our draft. Article 3 of the law on psychiatric assistance, which is in force today, points out three points. Paragraph 1: 'Psychiatric assistance shall be granted on the basis of a declaration of free will, i.e. at the request of a person or with informed consent. Paragraph 2: 'A person with reduced capacity shall be provided with psychiatric assistance with the consent of his or her legal representative and on the basis of his or her own will, to the extent that he or she is able to express his or her will. A legal representative cannot, instead of a representative, express a willingness to provide psychiatric assistance. ' And Paragraph 3 (3) states: 'The treatment of a person with a mental disorder without his or her own informed consent is permitted only in the cases provided for in subsections 11 and 17 of this Act. " Paragraph 11 of the Psychiatric Assistance Act refers to the willless inescapable psychiatric assistance which can only be applied on the basis of a court order, and § 17 refers to the application and supervision of compulsory psychiatric treatment. These are the points set out in today's Psychiatric Assistance Act on the Voluntaryity of Psychiatric Assistance. The draft that we have tabled sets out the amendments, namely § 3 (2) is amended as follows: I will read it out, although you are all likely to have the bill: 'A person with reduced capacity shall receive psychiatric assistance with his or her own informed consent or with the consent of a legal representative in accordance with § 766 (4) of the Law of Obligations Act. " Just as you quoted. I'm not going to read this paragraph again, I have it in front of me, but you already read the text of the law and you're a lawyer, I'm a social worker. In addition, paragraphs 21 and 22 of § 3 are supplemented by the wording indicated in the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U26	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U27	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I was wondering what kind of psychiatric assistance, treatment or treatment would be, or a condition in which a parent, who assumesly still cares about the health and well-being of his or her child, may be opposed to this activity and may not consent, but this young, under 18-year-old, sufficiently mature minor feels that this is certainly a very necessary procedure. Can you give a concrete example of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U28	Thank you very much. I come from the address of the Chancellor of Justice, which he presented to the Ministry of Social Affairs, as was said at the beginning on 3 July of last year. These examples relate not only to the opposition of the parent but also to the need for the child to be able to contact a psychiatrist without the parents' knowledge. Here, for example, family violence, eating disorders, does not want to make parents feel sad because there are problems. Often, parents feel that addressing a psychiatrist puts a seal on them, or that the parent is abroad, so that it is not possible to go to a doctor with him. There are many situations. I am very in agreement with you and, as I pointed out in the draft speech, most young people do indeed go to the doctor with the parent. That's right. But if there are exceptions and children need early intervention and help, then we should not close the door in front of them. That's the point of this bill. We help those who see that they have problems, they go to a doctor, and they get help in time. Sometimes prevention and early notice can help prevent very serious problems in adult life.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U29	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U30	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Is this bill going to increase the number of prisoners of conscience, or is it going to decrease?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U31	Thank you very much for your question. I must say that this draft has not been considered, discussed by the drafters. Surely the purpose of this bill is not to create more prisoners of conscience. Absolutely not! I think that when this bill is adopted, prisoners could be reduced in the future. If people are able to help their mental health problems at the right time, then perhaps in adult life there is much less violence, early school leaving and so on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U32	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U33	Thank you. Good waitress! Can you shed light on the reasons for which the consent of the parent to psychiatric assistance has so far been considered compulsory?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U34	I didn't quite hear the end, but what are those reasons? As I said at the beginning of the presentation, the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice already drew attention to this and turned to the Ministry of Social Affairs to introduce the amendments that protect and guarantee children's rights. So that's one of the reasons we started this bill. The second reason: being a social worker, I know that a very, very large number of problems are such that they will be more difficult to solve later on, they will ruin a person's life than if they were given help at the right time. The point of this draft, as I said at the beginning, and also the explanatory memorandum, is to enable young people under 18 to receive psychiatric assistance before these problems have led to a disorder that is difficult to resolve later.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U35	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U36	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Would you like to comment on what the purpose of this amendment is? I still see it so that we stand for every child to be able to get help if he or she has serious problems in life. This may involve bullying, normal relationships with parents. The fact that some young people may have very traumatic experiences, whether they concern harassment, domestic violence or gender identity issues, yes, they also do, but they are not the focus of this amendment. The aim is to help all young people. Young people's concerns, and this today's stress, may be caused by completely everyday issues, where fear of turning to parents may be felt for some reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U37	Thank you for your question. Indeed, the Social Democrats were primarily based on the fact that every child is valuable, every concern that the child feels is important. If a young person can go to 16 years of age to choose who he or she will give his or her voice to when organising a local life, if he or she feels that his or her mental health problems are something he or she needs help to solve, but parents do not consider it important that, while it grows up, this young person should not be left without help. I trust our medical staff, I trust our shrinks. They don't just leave their parents out of it. They inform the child, however, recommend that he or she discuss the situation with his or her parents so that they can support him or her during the course of treatment. However, if a young person decides that he or she does not consider it necessary and, according to a psychiatrist, is competent to make such a decision, he or she will be granted such assistance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U38	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U39	Thank you, dear waitress. It's definitely a good law, and I wouldn't have come here to ask, but I listened to the EKRE representatives' questions and I got a little embarrassed. Maybe you can help me. Are you able to judge the previous procedure in the Commission or the debate here, how or for what reason it is that, in the case of the draft on mental health of children, minors, the EKRE representatives are mostly interested in children's sexuality issues? Why such a lively interest?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U40	Thank you for your question. I think that all the questions that are being asked about this draft need to be discussed. No taboo issues. In the report by the Committee on Social Affairs, Signe Riisalo is certainly also concerned with what has been discussed in the committee. I cannot answer the question you have asked concerning interest in the sexual field, but I will say once again that all the questions that are being asked are worthy of answers and debate. I am also very pleased that, in the Committee on Social Affairs, it was decided to send this draft to the first reading of the Chamber in a very unanimous manner, i.e. cross-partyly. And just as I mentioned at the end of my presentation, the Government of the Republic has also given a supportive position on and indeed on supplementing the text of the explanatory memorandum on adults. I think that discussions are necessary, but the law is very good. Believe me!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U41	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U42	Good manager! Good waitress! The Chancellor of Justice has referred the Minister to the fact that, when it comes to a sufficiently mature and prudent person under 18 years of age, he should have that right. But can you tell me that if someone's mature enough and the other one's just ripe, what's the difference? Later, the address describes the need for a health care professional to assess whether a young person is being considered but is no longer talking about sufficient maturity. What is the difference between maturity and maturity, or who draws the line?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U43	Thank you for your question. Just as notaries assess whether a person is able to conclude contracts, whether he or she understands what is being done, medical staff also have their own assessment tools. A medical professional will assess whether a particular young person understands his or her wishes, makes his or her wishes clear, and in conversations, we will evaluate the maturity of that young person, so let's use that expression. I can't explain to you more precisely what these tests are and what these questions are, but once again, I trust the medical staff, I trust the children's psychiatry. And I believe that, once the Chancellor of Justice has raised this problem, it is not simply based on someone's feelings, but on specific cases which today remain unsolved in many hospitals or health centres in Estonia, where psychiatric assistance is also sought. They may be on hold for several years until the child is of age. And it is also important that, indeed, when our children are already addressing a psychiatrist, they perceive the problem. When turned for fun, believe the psychiatrist recognizes it and does not consent to the treatment. I don't have an instrument to show you here. In the run-up to the second reading of the draft, we can certainly also discuss this issue in the Committee on Social Affairs, but I trust our specialists in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U44	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U45	Thank you. I'm gonna ask you my last question again. What reasons have been put forward earlier in favour of parental consent being mandatory? What considerations have the current system been built on?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U46	What considerations have previously been expressed in the adopted laws in favour of parental consent? I think I got it. First of all, we change the law as time changes. Our young people must be quite different than they were ten years ago. And just as the report said, most turn to the reception with the parent. In a good family where things are negotiated, in a family with trust and mutual understanding, this law is not needed. These are a few exceptions where the child actually has a problem, but he or she cannot contact a psychiatrist on time. That's the law for these exceptions. This provides an opportunity to receive appropriate treatment before reaching the age of adulthood based on a prudent assessment by a psychiatrist or healthcare professional. If the Chancellor of Justice has approached the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Minister and considered it necessary, he certainly has examples and other information. When you read the explanatory statement, you will see that there are references to the studies, appeals and cases presented by the Chancellor of Justice. Believe me, this law does not make a person's life worse, and for example, a child of a family who does not have a problem with trust or domestic violence does not need it. But that's what we need for those who have a problem with it today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U47	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U48	President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! I wonder if the Social Democrats, when talking about pension reform, are of the opinion that grown-ups cannot decide adequately and correctly how to handle their money, but now that we look at this bill, the Social Democrats are very convinced that minors, children are so competent to take their health decisions, either in terms of procedures or in terms of some kind of treatment, which could indisputably have irreversible and harmful consequences. Can you explain why you find a minor to be very judgmental, but a grown man cannot decide his own affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U49	Thank you very much for your question. Believe me, in presenting this bill, the Social Democrats did not analyse whether the pension reform could relate to this in any way. The content of this law concerns special cases of psychiatric assistance, which has been referred to by both the Chancellor of Justice and several psychiatrists. Problems with children have led to the need to draft this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U50	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U51	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I am interested in this subject of maturity, and I have the opinion that maybe our decision-makers and practitioners are too mature to decide when a minor is mature or not. It turns out today that a minor is ripe to choose a local government at the age of 16, but at the age of 17, he is not yet ripe to buy an energy drink or, worse, a non-alcoholic beer. How mature is it, and when is it so ripe that it needs help?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U52	Thank you very much for this question. I think that, after the first reading, you could come to the floor and talk about this subject and, at the time of the amendments, make proposals or, for example, launch a draft on the subject of health or energy drinks. Within the meaning of this law, I say again, we rely on psychiatric help, and if the word "mature" has a sound that raises questions, then we will make 'is competent to decide', 'is able to decide'. Let's use another word. But we will certainly take up this maturity issue in the Committee on Social Affairs before second reading, I promise you personally and I will let you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U53	Thank you. Good waitress! I have a very deep suspicion that this is once again a political, commissioned bill, which is still one thing: suppressing such rights and obligations, reducing as much as possible the creation of such rights and obligations, so that more and more children can be brought into politics, and giving them greater opportunities to make choices without parents being able to direct them, to channel them from outside. That's what it feels like. And that's why, just in case, I'm asking you to dispel these doubts a little bit, how much statistically or estimated the number of cases, or the number of things that are causing the need for such a law. How many cases have there been that have not been before, and what has occurred recently or in recent years, that are now in dire need of such a legislative amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U54	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U55	Thank you very much for your question. I am pleased that when there are doubts and doubts, they are presented and asked about. And it is likely that the questions will also be answered during the discussions. The rapporteur in the Committee on Social Affairs will certainly shed light on this debate. Your representative in the Committee on Social Affairs can also ask these questions in preparation and processing for the second reading of this bill. However, I will stick to what was said at the beginning. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, and as stated in the address of the Chancellor of Justice, attention must be paid to the exceptions in which a minor is currently unable to receive assistance, even though he is addressing a psychiatrist, be the cause of the eating disorder, be it, I do not know, broken heart, unhappy love. He sees that he has a problem, and he needs help and support. The sooner he gets help, the stronger he will be in adulthood. On the fact that the draft is political, I say yes, this draft concerns health policy. This draft, which concerns the right to vote, has already been adopted and on this basis the 16-year-olds go to vote. However, this bill is health policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U56	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U57	Thank you. I understand, but I'm telling you, they belong to a bunch of things. But even so, how many of these special needs-reflecting events are there? Are there any statistics on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U58	Yes, thank you again for this question. It's a shame you've wasted that question on me now. Signe Riisalo would certainly have responded in the discussions held in the Commission. But since I myself took part in the committee meeting, I can say that, as mentioned in the explanatory memorandum and in my report, there are those references and exceptions. Almost every month, someone turns to a psychiatrist or child psychiatrist, but no help is available because the law excludes this possibility without parental consent. If there is no way to turn, we will not be better able to provide statistics. Check out the Chancellor of Justice's 2019 "Children and Youth' review, which shows these data. I think the fear of children or young people turning to a specialist early when they feel they have a problem is in vain. The psychiatrist advises them to talk to their parents, if there is a family, but not in case of domestic violence, to find someone to discuss the subject, even a grandparent, in order not to be left alone. Believe me, today's situation in which children use Google and certain gangs on the street explain how life is actually going on is far more dangerous for young people than for them to receive qualified and very high-level psychiatric assistance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U59	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I now request Signe Riisalo, member of the Social Affairs Committee, as co-rapporteur!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U60	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that such an important law, aimed primarily at helping children, has created such a lively debate, and I am very pleased to present it here on behalf of the Commission. I would also like to thank the Socialist Group in particular for submitting this draft. This draft has been discussed twice in the Committee on Social Affairs on 17 December and 13 January. On 17 December, a larger circle of participants took part in the debate. In addition to the members of the committee, advisor of the Ministry of Social Affairs Ingrid Ots-Vaik, adviser of the Ministry of Education and Research Piret Liba, representative of the Office of the Chancellor of Justice Andres Aru, representative of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, Kristi Rekand, and chairman of the board of the Estonian Psychiatric Society, respected child psychiatrist Anne Kleinberg. During the debate, all parties were in favour of giving children access to psychiatric assistance when they were mature enough. However, this discussion was brought about by the fact that the provisions of the proposed draft also apply to adults with reduced capacity. The explanatory memorandum does not provide any further explanation in this respect, focusing only on minors who are allowed access to psychiatric assistance without the consent of the legal representative, the parent. The representative of the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice maintained that, in accordance with the general principle of the Convention on Persons with Disabilities, it is reasonable and necessary to grant similar access to psychiatric assistance to disabled persons who have limited capacity. The Ministry of Social Affairs and the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People were also of the same opinion. In addition to the Commission's discussion, we also received written statements. We received a written position from, among other things, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, who said that they supported the draft, but their wish is that the explanatory statement be supplemented in relation to adults with reduced capacity. We are also pleased with the government's position, as the government has supported this draft despite the fact that they are actually planning to update the whole law on psychiatric assistance as a whole. The government considered it important and necessary to ensure access to psychiatric assistance for minors and disabled adults in the past. On 13 January the Commission was invited by Ingrid Ots-Vaik, a representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, who presented the position of the government. The Commission made consensual decisions: to put the draft on the agenda for today, to propose that the first reading be closed, to give ten days to make amendments and to appoint me rapporteur. As a former child welfare officer, I would like to say for my part that psychiatric assistance is not something that should be feared. Psychiatric assistance, in addition to medical treatment, is definitely also therapy. When we talk about children and young people, or even people with reduced capacity who might need this kind of help, we are actually talking about those children who grow in families where parental practice is either autocrat, ambivalent or even reckless, or violent, and inadequate to the needs of the child. Helmen Küttt also pointed out very well the fact that the child's mental health development is based on the foundation or the foundation of early childhood, and the family has a very, very large role to play in this. I firmly believe that most Estonian families care about their children and do everything they can. There was a question of numbers. Unfortunately, we know that according to statistics, 9500 children in need of help had been registered in Estonia in 2018. These children have different needs for help, not all related to psychiatric needs. But for all these children, there may be a certain risk that can be prevented. These are children who have suffered trauma. What's the trauma? The loss of parents, the death of parents, the divorce of parents, but also the abandonment of parents. There may also be children, as has already been mentioned here, whose problem is bullying by either fellow students or, unfortunately, by teachers or other school staff today. We're talking about sexual abuse. In 2018, there were approximately 200 victims of sexual abuse in the Children's House. However, these cases were only cases of Tallinn and Tartu, or North and South Estonia, because the Children's House, which assists sexually abused children, unfortunately we do not have today in Ida-Virumaa or Läänemaa. These houses are planned to be created. We are also thinking about children whose parents work abroad. About 3% of underage children in Estonia are those whose parents work for shorter or longer periods of time abroad, and there are periods where the child may need to have access to psychiatric assistance as well. So much for who these children are and how many they can be. But it is quite certain that the entry into force of the law will not lead to mass contact with psychiatrists. Awareness of such an opportunity for children and young people will grow over time. Similarly, it is not easy or known how to contact a doctor. In fact, it is often school psychologists, child welfare workers, and family doctors who help to mediate information and direct children to specialist medical care, which is obviously psychiatric assistance. It is also very important to stress here that psychiatric assistance is actually dealing with the consequences. If we really want to prevent children's mental health problems, we need to pay more attention to primary health care, including school health care, improving mental health offices, delivering mental health nurses to children and young people, and the work and work of clinical psychologists. We all know that both school psychologists and clinical psychologists need more resources than the state budget to complete their professional year, which unfortunately did not reach this year's budget. We also had a debate in the Commission on what to do about the lack of child psychiatrists, as was said earlier. At the level of the law, psychiatrists do not distinguish whether they are children's psychiatrists or ordinary psychiatrists. All psychiatrists are capable of helping children and young people. And actually, it's very important that these other helpers come at first level. Questions, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U61	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U62	Thank you. I am very pleased that people who have worked in the field and are deeply aware of it, such as Helmen Kütt and Signe Riisalo, are standing up for such a bill and taking such a change for our children. I would just ask, given that you have such a long child protection experience, whether, in addition to all very serious traumas and extreme cases, there are situations where the child's concern may have been caused, for example, by the relationship between parents, the stress of children being caused by parents, and therefore it is a desire to talk to someone else. Are there cases in which a child wants to pour out his or her heart to a stranger rather than to approach his or her parents? Are there cases where what parents expect of a child, for example in terms of academic success,...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U63	Thank you. The time for questioning is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U64	... may be the cause of stress and depression, so they want to approach a stranger?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U65	Thank you, Riina Sikkut, for a very good question. Yes, domestic violence, whether directed against a child or an eyewitness, is in any case a factor that causes trauma to a child. Today's brain studies show that being an eyewitness of violent family relationships in childhood has a significant impact on the structure of the brain and therefore on mental health. So it is quite certain that violent family relationships are harmful to the child, not only in the role of the victim, but also in the role of an eyewitness, and affect his or her mental health. Now the second part of the question. Are there situations where a child wants to talk about his or her problems outside the family and for some reason does not trust or can't trust his or her parents? These concerns may be related to learning; these concerns may relate to children's own relationships, to friends, but these concerns may also relate to relationships between parents. The answer is definitely 'Yes'. We have a very good example of a children's helpline, which children are very active in. I don't think I'm gonna say statistics, but these numbers are just gonna increase. Children ask for advice in very different situations and cases. In fact, not only do children ask for advice on matters that affect themselves, but they also ask for advice about their friends in order to help them and guide them. But I really hope that the cases you described, Riina, will not make it to the psychiatrist's office, because there should be quite a few lower networks for these cases where these children are already captured, these children will be spotted. For example, childcare facilities have an obligation to inform child protection workers. Child welfare workers have a very high authority to instruct parents and finally to prescribe them as a municipal administrative act in order to try to help their children better. There are also school psychologists, family doctors, and certainly mental health nurses, depending on the age, situation and situation of the child. But what's the big deal? One thing is when a child has an injury. But the real concern is, in fact, those mental health problems that are of genetic origin and are fostered by social factors. We are talking here, for example, about children with a lack of activity and attention, whose numbers are growing dramatically around the world, and Estonia is far from an exception. Perhaps, in fact, we are talking not only about social conditions but also about diseases that plague our children.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U66	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U67	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Suddenly you touch a little on this subject, which was specifically pointed out by a representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs in the process of preparing the law on psychiatric assistance. It also pointed out that this process could take a few years. Do I remember correctly?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U68	Yeah, you remember right. Ingrid Ots-Vaik, the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, confirmed that although the amendment of this law has been planned for several years, the writing of provisions has not yet been achieved today. Pure logic tells us that the terms and conditions of processing the laws prepared by the government or the Ministry mean that it will take about two years before this law can reach the Riigikogu. But I have, Reuben Kaalep, perhaps a more detailed answer for you. You asked Mrs Helmen Hunt several times earlier what was the reason why there was previously a legal requirement that parental consent was essential for receiving psychiatric assistance. I've been talking to the people who wrote the law at the time. These included both ministry officials and the people of the Estonian Psychiatric Society. They have assured me that, in doing so, it was also a bit of a failure at the time, because when talking about a person or person with limited capacity, it was not meant to be a child. It wasn't the original idea. And that's why I've been told by a number of psychiatric associates that this mistake should be corrected. This was not originally the idea of restricting access to certain types of medical care, because I really do not see the risks that a visit by a psychiatrist could pose to a child. Many questions have also been asked about maturity. What is maturity enough? What is maturity? First of all, the word'sufficient' is generally used in law as a legal term, and the word'mature' is not really used in law. We have talked in law about 'know-how consent', which is a legal term. But maturity as such is best appreciated by both clinical psychologists and psychiatrists. Whether a person is fit to make a decision at this point in time has already been given the competence of psychiatrists in quite a number of other areas of life, whether we are talking about a weapons permit, whether we are talking about the right to drive, these things can be brought in more and more. Yeah, gender change is also related to psychiatrists, because psychiatrist opinion is necessary for gender change. However, there is no gender change at psychiatrist and psychiatrist services. This is actually decided by a separate committee set up by the Ministry of Social Affairs and a separate medical examination is carried out, resulting in a decision. In fact, the buffer period is two years and minors are not allowed to change sex.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U69	Kalle Grünthal, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U70	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U71	Then we can't afford to ask you in the big hall right now. Kert Kingo, is there a procedural question? No, it's not. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U72	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I say, for the sake of the verbatim report, that it is not for the Ministry of Social Affairs to write these paragraphs that it takes two years to complete the law on psychiatric assistance. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs therefore considered that it would be right to take decisions relating to these paragraphs earlier. Writing a whole law on psychiatric assistance is a long process where coordination and everything are needed. Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U73	Yeah, that's right, that's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U74	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U75	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I also express my sympathy for dealing with this amendment. Psychological deficits are not what a person seems to be missing. But since it was said that the current bill is a correction for errors that have ever been made or missed, I ask what is the window of time when this law was passed, which we are now correcting. In itself, it is nice that our society is evolving, we realise that mistakes that have ever been made must be corrected, but say vaguely, I do not require a date or a year, whether it is, for example, three years or more.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U76	No, I'm not telling you this year's number right now, but it's considerably more than three or five years. It's definitely over ten years. But I don't think I'm going to tell you that date of adoption of the law on psychiatric assistance right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U77	Thank you. Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Mrs Riina Sikkut was talking about activities that go under psychological counseling, but the law talks about psychiatric assistance. What specific activities have the law taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U79	Psychiatric treatment concerns diagnostic codification according to ICD-10, the diagnosis that has been recorded there and includes the treatment provided for these diagnoses, but above all diagnosis. Most psychiatric diagnosis can be established on the condition that a certain number of symptoms can be defined by the diagnosis of 3 to 10; for each diagnosis, this number has been repeated over a certain period of time. This means that psychiatric intervention either medically or through therapy is not the first thing a psychiatrist will treat this young person or a disabled adult. First, diagnosis takes place, it takes place in several stages, and only after diagnosis has been carried out will treatment be continued according to established guidelines. We know, in fact, that, for example, depression and stress, Estonian schoolchildren have publicly stated that stress and depression and mental health problems are among the biggest treatments for them today, not only a psychiatrist but also a family doctor. We also know that a family doctor has the right to diagnose depression as the most common psychiatric disorder and to issue prescriptions for medical treatment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-21_U80	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 115. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 4 February at 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's agenda is exhausted and the session is closed. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 11.03 a.m.
