ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the 10th working week of the 4th plenary session.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U2	First, Imre Sooääre, member of the Riigikogu, takes the oath. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U3	Good ambassadors! Before I go into taking an oath or giving up my mandate, I humbly request the permission of the honourable Riigikogu to explain its choices to you. I left this house four years ago knowing I was going for good. But fate has brought me before you today, and here I am facing the greatest and most difficult choice of my life. If I sign the oath of office, it automatically terminates the diplomat's career because the service relationship in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs cannot be suspended if you come to the Riigikogu. If I only decided on rational influences, I would definitely continue my career as a diplomat. But there's another half on the coin, and these are my people. They've given me their vote. How do I look at them when I give up responsibility for Estonia at such a difficult time? Is it right to put your personal career... [[Voices in the hall.]] I feel a heavy burden on my shoulders, but I feel that it is not right to make wrong decisions according to conscience. The important thing is that we make our choices with our hearts. The heart is a symbol of love. Gingerbread hearts are already hanging on the spruce. With the help of our hearts, we support social media, report that we care about them, with love. Isn't it strange that the word "love" is never in Estonian law? We have a family law that doesn't have a section on what's family, and there's not a word about love. Why can't we just say it? that the family is an alliance of love? (You vote in the hall: "Enough! This isn't the place. ") Why does the text sound like nothing more than a literal language? Where's the love, isn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U4	Thank you, Mr. Sooäär! Unfortunately, our rules of procedure do not foresee such a speech, but we are all concerned about love. Thank you. I'm gonna get in here because Siim Kallas had his hand up. No, it wasn't. Thank you very much, but let's keep going with our vows. Unfortunately, this is the law of our home and working arrangements.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U5	Thank you, good President of the Riigikogu. I know the law of the house and the rules of procedure very well. I've been four in this house. The Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu does not provide for how long an oath may be taken. I asked the honourable Riigikogu to hear me out. I think I have something important to say to all of you, to both sides of the Chamber, both to the opposition and to the coalition, even if I renounce the mandate. But I haven't made that decision yet, I'll make the decision at the end of this report. I also have a chance to stop here for five minutes because I can't be taken there by force to sign.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U6	Honourable Riigikogu... Please, Mr. Sooäär! Does the Riigikogu agree to listen...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U7	Will the Riigikogu allow me to finish my speech? (You vote in the hall: "No! ") Will the Riigikogu be willing to listen to what I have to say?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U8	Please don't interrupt! Are you willing to listen? [[Voices in the hall.]] Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U9	I beg you to hear me out!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U10	Yes, please, there you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U11	I thank EKRE, by the way. I love EKRE. They are also Estonian people. [[Voices in the hall.]] You didn't listen to me. What are they to blame for if some of our people have been forgotten in the past and some leaders have painted just the picture of reality that is good for them? The world is exactly the way we imagine it, as we believe it, but with every step and decision we change reality in Estonia. We are together in this Chamber creators of our thoughts and decisions. We ourselves are creating this new Estonia. Why is there so much anger around us and so little understanding? Maybe there's not enough love to balance it. Love is an antidote to hate. Love is never enough if we don't share it. If we share hate, it preserves hatred. I don't hate anybody for a long time. Only love takes Estonia forward. But I also believe that neither the Riigikogu nor the whole of Estonia should be held in the hands of any charismatic politician. I believe in the democratic rule of law. (Voice in the Chamber: "That's enough! ") Fear is the greatest pandemic anyone can talk about. It's the most contagious in the world. It is alarming, it weakens the immune system and it suppresses clear thinking. We must rise above it and dare to make decisions with love. In front of the Almighty, we are all alone in our truth. In his country of light, there is no question of marriage equality or budget holes. There's all equal and there's plenty of everything. We are equal before God, whether our almighty is Tara, Buddha, or the quantum field of the universe. It's all a matter of faith. I believe stardust is what we come from and what we become, and earthly soil is just star dust. And star dust has a pure power of love, a power that triggers the universe.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U12	Thank you, Mr. Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U13	I'm about to get to the vows.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U14	Are you ready to take your oath or not? You already have this normal time that has been given to members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U15	I'm about to get to the end.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U16	That's enough. We already heard enough of you, was very inspiring, very beautiful. Thank you. But please, let's go to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U17	So are they gonna bring the police and get me out of here? Or what's the solution? The Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu does not provide for how long I can take an oath. I'd love to use my traditional 5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U18	Unfortunately, you're not taking an oath right now, you're making a speech. There's a very big difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U19	I swear. This is the point of taking an oath.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U20	It's not an oath.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U21	I asked for an opportunity to explain before taking the oath.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U22	That's not the explanation you're expecting. You are expected to take an oath or refuse it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U23	And it's coming. We have a lot of critical problems to deal with today: families living below the poverty line, care, culture, economic recovery, etc. These and many other issues require the attention that is now going to a referendum that divides people. But the ancient Romans said that first you must set your mind, then your family, then your country. Should love between two adults also be protected by family law? [[The mike's off.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U24	Thank you, Mr. Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U25	... The interests of the Estonian state are more important to me than personal interests. I'll take responsibility. I'm coming with you. Make a bridge, not as a judge or as a maker of assessments. [[The mike's off.]] I'm coming here... [[The mike's off.]] Taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as a member of the XIV Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U26	Thank you. And I hope that this transgression will not be the custom here in the Riigikogu. But congratulations!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U27	And now we're going to... Any procedural questions? Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U28	Thank you. A moment ago, we heard an oath from our esteemed new colleague. I would like to point out that, although he has been involved in the work of the Riigikogu for a very long time, he does not know how to work and how to work, because before taking an oath, a person who is not a member of the Riigikogu made a speech here without permission. I believe that this is an important violation of the procedural rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U29	Thank you. I agree. But now, let's go to the billing and debriefing. First Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U30	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Monetary Commission is launching a draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. The extension of the accounting period from one financial year to four financial years in assessing the intensity of electrointivity and gas consumption gives companies greater flexibility in a volatile economic environment and reduces the impact of short-term economic difficulties on the results of the assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U31	The representative of the Government of the Republic, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U32	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching four draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Income Tax Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Martin Helme when this bill is being processed in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft Act ratifying the agreement to amend and terminate the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the facilitation and protection of investments. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Foreign Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act and other laws. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik in the proceedings of the above-mentioned bill in the Riigikogu. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Chemical Act and other laws. The Government of the Republic is represented in Taavi Aas, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure in the Riigikogu when the bill is being processed. All four draft laws have been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U33	Thank you. There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted five drafts. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Now we're conducting a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U34	93 members of the Riigikogu are present, no 8. Dear Riigikogu, we are going to the specification and approval of the agenda. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas has made a request to remove from the agenda of the Tuesday session of this working week an overview of the activities of the Government of the Republic in the implementation of European Union policy, scheduled for the first item on the agenda. With this amendment, I vote on the Riigikogu... Does Mr. Kross have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U35	Correction, if you don't mind. The first row on this agenda, "Vow of Riigikogu Member Imre Sooääre," should actually be "Vow of Imre Sooääre Member of the Riigikogu," because Imre Sooäär took the oath of office as a private person.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U36	He became a member of the Riigikogu by decision of the board and took an oath today. Returning to the agenda, with the above amendment, I shall vote on the approval of the agenda for the 10th working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U37	There are 90 members of the Riigikogu, one against and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U38	Today's first draft, which we are dealing with, is the draft law amending the Financial Management Act and the Law amending the Law on Maritime Safety initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs 282. Second reading. The rapporteur is Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U39	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the Act amending the Financial Management Act and the Maritime Safety Act of the local government unit was completed on 17 November including. The draft was forwarded to the government for its opinion. The government decided to support the draft at its meeting on 19 November. No amendments were received in the Riigikogu by the deadline. One consensual amendment was made by the Finance Committee following the changes made in the second reading of the draft National Budget Act 2021, which provided for instruments to reduce the fees for waterways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U40	Thank you. It is now possible to ask the rapporteur questions. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U41	Thanks! Good Aivar, maybe you can explain in a few words. As far as I can remember, at first reading, we had here the law on the financial management of the local government unit, but now something has come up here, this maritime safety law in some way. Why don't you explain in more detail whether we're, like, sewing a jacket on a button or a jacket on a button or why we didn't make a separate law? Maritime safety matters are also pending in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Explain a little more, not just with one sentence.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U42	Thank you for a good question, good questioner. When the second reading came to the state budget for 2021, a change was made, resulting in a 50% reduction of the waterway charge from 1 April 2021 until the end of the following year. As you know, the decision adopted in this year's supplementary budget has been reduced to 0% until 1 April next year. A good questioner, as you know, must have passed the laws before the state budget is adopted. So the amendment proposed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs has introduced a 50% reduction in the fee for waterways and a consensual decision has been made that the law on maritime safety has been incorporated into the financial management of the local authority.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U43	Rocks Hard. But actually...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U44	Thank you. Yeah, I have another question. Good Aivar, but if this bill hadn't been in the process, what would have happened?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U45	Very simple. Then we would have had another bill that would have been proposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U46	Thank you, dear waitress. There will be no further speeches. Is there a wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiations, then we will go to the revision of the amendments. One amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs has been tabled, the position of the commission is to take full account of. The commission has proposed that the second reading of the draft 282 be terminated. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U47	Today's item No 2, second reading of the draft law on health and safety at work initiated by the Government of the Republic and amendments to other laws 257. The rapporteur is Priit Sibul, member of the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U48	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, There's so much in common with the previous bill that there's a second reading. The Commission's proposal is exactly the same as starting at the end, finishing second reading, and if the second reading is decided to be completed today, the third reading will take place this Wednesday. But I will certainly not be able to present the draft so briefly, since we also have nine amendments. Just to remind you, for the time being, when we had our first reading here on 17 November, the draft was limited to facilitating the creation of a safe working environment, which is an obligation for employers. The draft amends the requirements for the Labour Inspectorate database, updates and specifies the purpose of the database, the list of data to be entered in the database and the storage deadlines. According to the draft, the risk analysis of the working environment must be drawn up in the information system for working life and forwarded to the Labour Inspectorate. The draft also increases the employer's responsibility for violations of working conditions. As we talked about at first reading, some of these obligations already existed, but now this data has to be put into the information system. The Commission addressed different organisations. Only the EVEA (after which I will talk about specific changes) gave feedback; others did not have much of it. On 23 November, however, the Minister of Social Affairs addressed the Commission with a letter in which, on behalf of the Government, he presented a proposal to amend the Law on Health and Safety at Work and other laws. The proposal aims to extend the regulation on sickness compensation to apply from the second day of sickness. It is specified that the employee's share of sickness benefit will decrease, with three days instead of one. In addition, employers' liability for sickness benefits changes. Employers will continue to compensate the employee for 70% of the average salary of the employee from the second to the fifth day of the illness and the sickness fund will compensate for the costs of the sickness benefit from the sixth day. At present, it is remembered that the employer is obliged to reimburse the sickness fund from the fourth to the eighth day from the ninth day. The amendments are planned to enter into force on 1 January of the coming year and will be valid until 30 April. The Social Affairs Committee examined the proposals made in the Ministry at its meeting on 25 November. As I said, we supported these proposals. We also held a meeting on 1 December, 2 December and 7 December this morning, so we discussed these issues quite thoroughly. I will talk a little bit more about what was being said in the Commission. First of all, on this previous issue. The representatives of EVEA pointed out that the amendments to the draft (modernisation of the area of health and safety at work, implementation of IT options to reduce administrative burdens) are a step in the right direction, but they believe that they will increase the administrative burden. EVEA considers that the proposal submitted by the Ministry of Social Affairs to change the sickness benefit regime paid by the employer is contrary to the Constitution (the provisions of the fundamental right to equality, freedom to conduct a business and the fundamental right to property). In particular, in the case of a self-employed person who pays social security contributions but whose entitlement to sickness benefit during incapacity for work or in the case of quarantine is legally limited in relation to a person in a contract of employment or employment relationship. In addition, the representatives of the EVEA pointed out that the proposal submitted by the Ministry of Social Affairs did not have an adequate assessment of employers' costs, as it is quite clear that if we do so temporarily, there have been many talks about how employers' costs will decrease, but it is clear during the crisis that more sick leaves will be taken. So we certainly do not see any reduction in costs during this period, we must accept that. EVEA considers that employers are legally obliged to pay sickness benefits only if the issue of the sick list is due to illness or injury. They estimate that under the current regime people on the sick leave are entitled to sickness benefits from Day 9 and that the employer has no obligation to pay sickness benefits under the Health and Safety at Work Act. I'll tell you more about that. This was indeed an important and in-depth debate that took place in the Commission. In the case of self-employed persons, it must be acknowledged that, firstly, no one is obliged to become a self-employed person, but it is an opportunity. It is true that from time to time they see themselves as entrepreneurs, from time to time as employees, how more useful and reasonable they are. That is what we need to look at in this sense as a whole. We were told in the Commission that, also in the case of the new regulation, self-employed persons will remain liable for the first day of their employment (as their own employee), from the second to the fifth day, self-employed persons will pay for their own sickness benefit and, from the sixth day, they will receive it from the health insurance fund. It used to be four to eight days. That's right, it's a special feature of self-employment when a person is an employer of his own. The Chamber of Notaries and the insolvency administrators also referred to us on the same issue, so that it would appear to be incorrect or unfair. The cost of the change proposed by the government will be 5 million in the coming year, 2.5 million of which should come from the sickness fund and 2.5 million from the government reserve. The Estonian Employers' Confederation confirmed that in tripartite negotiations, the understanding was reached that, although this change would entail additional costs, in any case during the crisis, it would be reasonable for employers to have this obligation from another day. The employer's representative also stressed that regulation should not be rushed, as businesses need time to prepare. Employers were also concerned about the budget of the Health Insurance Fund so that we would not overburden it here. The representative of the Estonian Trade Union Confederation of Central Unions recommended that changes to the regulation of sick days include the possibility of extending this crisis measure if necessary, as we do not know whether the COVID-19 has withdrawn by the end of April. Predictably: this amendment was not specifically supported by the Commission, although it was included in the Socialist proposal. Now to the amendments. The Social Democrats made proposals that were presented to us by a good colleague of the Commission, Helmen Küttt. Their proposal was to extend this measure. The employer's reimbursement of the sick leave on the second day was supported by the Commission. The second amendment from the Social Democrats was on the burden of analysis. Since the Socialists' proposal was also that this change would not be valid for four months, as it is now, but for longer, they had a proposal that an analysis should be carried out and that we could assess it ex post. Since the draft is now before us as it came from the Commission, it was not considered reasonable to impose an analysis obligation. The third proposal is that the deadlines and that the amendments included in the draft could be extended, which was a simple proposal and which was not supported by the Commission. The fourth proposal relates to the current regulation of the sick pages that will be opened before 1 January 2021. Amendments 5 to 7 refer to the fact that when this four-month period ends, how will the current situation be restored, which will then be financed, or what will be the responsibility of employers or employees. Then they essentially go back to the current system. The eighth amendment is precise and technical and the ninth one relates to the entry into force of the law. I hope that this explanation could be understood. The meetings of the Commission were long and thorough. I think that the most important issues concerning the self-employed and the quarantine leaves, I labeled them broadly, in what form this debate in the Commission was. As I said, the Commission proposed ending the second reading of the draft, and if today it is decided to close it, if the large hall supports the Commission's proposals, then the third reading will take place on Wednesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U49	Thank you. You have questions too, good waitress. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U50	Thank you. The meetings of the Committee on Social Affairs are long and thorough, which, I think, characterises the work of this committee for some time. Discussions are long and thorough, but the right decisions do not come up for some reason. And so are sick days. Since September, experts, as well as the Social Democrats, have been talking about the need to resolve this issue, as a large part of the infections take place in the workplace. In fact, that decision did not come and did not come. In November, after two months of pickling up the bill, it was voted down here. By the end of next week, more or less, the critical limit of hospital capacity will be reached in Estonia, and hospital care will be severely restricted because we have lost control of the spread of the corona virus. You said that on 23 November the Minister for Social Affairs came before the Social Affairs Committee with a proposal to resolve this issue. How timely and adequate are you to assess the actions of the Minister of Social Affairs in the context of resolving this issue? It was only so late [began to act].
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U51	Thank you for your question. I fully appreciate it being adequate. I think about what you referred to, that we all have the same understanding and vision of the problem of people not going to work sick. The only difference is that if you're a minister (the questioner, unlike the respondent, has been there), you know that the minister doesn't really seem to be able to do that. All such changes will take place through tripartite negotiations. Both trade unions and employers were represented in the Commission. It was also about the quarantine leaves and these things. Employers said one thing in the Commission last week, we do not have an official letter today, but they say that they have changed their mind. In the Commission, and I expect that the Minister must bear this in mind also in trialogues, which must be based not only on the interests of workers but also on those of employers. Unfortunately, these negotiations took too long, I agree, but it is not easy to agree when the parties have to commit. These obligations must also be fulfilled if they are to be assumed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U52	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U53	At the same time, employers said that they were not approached by the government on this issue until the end of August. This may not be the most adequate either, given that there were several months between the first and second waves, if we could have resolved these issues systematically so that we really had all the adequate defence mechanisms in place when we entered the second wave. The fact that the compensation system for sick days had not been fixed by the state for the second wave has obviously led to the faster spread of the virus by experts, which is why we have reached a situation where we are actually risking the hospital system in many regions. I'll ask you this way. How does it seem to the honourable waitress that if the Government of the Republic had done its job more effectively and, for example, by October, we could have solved the problems of this system, could we really be today, for example, with an infection rate of 150 or 200, perhaps we would not risk the collapse of the hospital system if the work had been done in the past?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U54	Thank you. I'm sorry I can't answer that question. If I look at the rates of infection in different countries, the sanctions imposed or the measures taken, I cannot find very correlated systems so that, if we do or do not do, we can have exactly this or a different result. That would be fortune-telling, and that's what I don't do.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U55	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U56	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! Indeed, trialogues on working life and labour market organisation are very valuable, and it will take time to reach agreement. I know that very well. At the same time, in the spring of the crisis, the state compensated for the first three days of sickness, the employer had no role to play, and the employer was not disturbed by this solution either. It is possible to reach an agreement on such a solution more quickly. The second thing is that it makes sense, as Tõnis Mölder confirmed, to have long-term negotiations. Now we are talking about a four-month solution. Is there more than four months to negotiate with employers for a four-month solution, or would there also be alternative ways for the state to assume this responsibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U57	Thank you. The trialogue did not seek a solution for four months. What was agreed in a trialogue was also a two-year period. This decision was rather political in order to do so as a temporary measure. You're right about what was in spring. But as I pointed out, employers also paid attention to the issue of the health insurance fund or the state budget. Somewhere the money that can be distributed to somebody must still be collected. All these measures are being pursued in such a way as to limit the economy and entrepreneurship as little as possible and, since turnover has fallen in many sectors anyway, in such a way that we do not impose new burdens on employers and do too enthusiastically from the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U58	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U59	Thank you. I'll ask you again. It is really very nice to have a long-term solution sought, and indeed it is a great pleasure that employers have agreed to a two-year solution and will see that the virus has been with us for a long time. It is all the more surprising that compensation for the first days of sickness has reached the draft for a period of only four months. Who, then, is in the government who did not agree to abide by the tripartite agreement and give their head nod to the two-year solution that employers wanted? Who opposed the government to finding a longer-term solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U60	Thank you. All I can say is how this bill came before us. But I also do not know whether this crisis will last for two years or twelve years or whether it will hopefully pass much faster or indeed, as Evgeny says, maybe it will last 200 years. When we talk about these measures, we cannot say that two years is a short time. I know that there are also political forces who think that this sickness benefit system should not be transferred in such a way that not only when it is two years old, and the trade unions will also support it. I'm not sure it makes any sense, but we can discuss it. On this analysis, too, the Ministry of Social Affairs told us that they would definitely be monitoring it. The problem is, if we take last year and so forth, we're not going to have any base of comparison based on this four-month period. Well, we're gonna have to make decisions on the same data. It will certainly be possible for Parliament to come back to this in February and March if we see that the problems are the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U61	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U62	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, First of all, the great recognition that you will report very accurately on the debate that took place in the Committee on Social Affairs, and also on answering questions, you will remain within that limit. You pointed out that the tripartite negotiations looked at the longer term and the time and were agreed to do so. As a member of the Commission, I realized that employers were only talking about four months. Am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U63	In the Commission, we talked, absolutely, about the draft that came before us, I think employers will definitely like it better. But I also remember that the position of the union leader and the letters I have indicate that this agreement was made in a trialogue for two years. I think it's accurate and correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U64	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U65	Thank you. Dear waitress, In one of your earlier responses, you said that you did not know how one thing or another would have worked. But already at least two months ago, the Health Board pointed out that at that time the biggest problem with infection was the workplace, i.e. that people went to work sick and did not stay home. A few days ago, a company on the news said that they had a constant problem with how to make it clear to employees that you should not come to work if you have a suspicion of infection or so on. In this context, in order for this disease to spread as little as possible, would it not have been reasonable to compensate people for the first days of illness several months ago so that they felt as little as possible forced to go to work? Or do you think it doesn't make sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U66	Just as I answered one question before (I think we agree on that), no matter how small the symptoms or signs of the disease should be away from work. I think there is also an ideological difference of opinion here. I looked at a protocol where a representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs said that if we reduce the person's responsibility for health care, we will achieve better results. I personally take the opposite view. I think that the more a person feels personally responsible for his or her health, the better the results we will achieve. But it's probably an ideological difference of opinion. But the subject of your question is mainly the one who pays or is paid for. Indeed, employers, on the one hand, were worried about the budget of the Health Insurance Fund and, on the other hand, said that okay, if otherwise not, it could be done by state or health insurance funds, for example in the case of quarantine, if we are not talking about specific symptoms, but that someone has been in close contact, he is being quarantined, so that then the employer should not have an obligation. We all know that that's where we're about to get to possible abuse of the sick list and stuff like that. It's very difficult to get that weight right. Of course, in this I absolutely agree with the Social Democrats, and I think that no one would mind if we had been on the subject much earlier. But criticizing and telling why it is being dealt with so late is certainly easier than reaching these agreements.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U67	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U68	Thank you, manager. Good fellow Commissionman! At least as important as compensation for sick days is compensation for quarantine days. In the context of the debate on the amendments to this draft, a new concern came to the table that compensation for quarantine days by the employer is not a standard practice. The Ministry of Social Affairs has today expressed regret that they did not realise to bring this change to the Riigikogu earlier on the quarantine days. Maybe you'll comment on the problem. I believe that colleagues deserve to know this. As has been said many times, this remote control is spoken to the people. People also deserve to know what the state of financing quarantine days is.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U69	Just as I referred once to in the introductory speech, in addition to us, the EVEA raised this issue in the debate. Indeed, on the subject of quarantine leaves, views were interpreted differently. The Ministry considered that they should be treated in exactly the same way as the sick leaves, that they were equally compensated, that EVEA questioned it, that employers were treated in the same way. The employer's representative told us that there are employers who are now voluntarily talking about the fourth to eighth day, or even earlier, to compensate for it, and there are those who are not. There is no legal obligation to do so. In the Commission, we discussed at length whether this should be made compulsory. For example, employers said that these quarantine rules were not discussed at all during these trialogues. It is that these tripartite negotiations I brought here myself maybe in vain, but since this process took place at the same time, it seemed kind of strange not to mention it. But it is obvious that the trialogue did not seek a solution to this short-term problem, but it is actually a secondary one, which shows that the subject of quarantine leaves was left out at all. Employers said that it cannot be done overnight so that, first, their Director-General cannot take responsibility for the organisation at our meeting and say that the organisation feels that way or otherwise. The survey revealed that some employers behave in a way that compensates for these quarantine leaves in the same way as the sick leaves, and others do not. There is no legal obligation. They also do not agree that the Commission will now impose this obligation on employers overnight, without negotiating it. As I said, there was a meeting on Friday in the Committee on Social Affairs, and today I and the chairman of the committee also had contacts with representatives of employers. They are likely to change this view because, as we have here in the saalisk, regardless of party affiliation, there is one notion that if people have symptoms or if they have been exposed to an infected person, it is reasonable that they do not get around, do not work, do not work. We can't force people to live and be without money. Employers are likely to be in the process of correcting their position. Then it is important for us to react as quickly as possible so that the quarantine sheets can be compensated in the same way. It's not official, but it seems to me that we are getting there or that we are about to be in this big hall with this change.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U70	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U71	Thank you. Honourable waitress! It is planned to pay sickness benefit in exceptional circumstances within four months from the second day. Couldn't this have been done long ago and since day one, just like the Social Democrats did? These tripartite negotiations are such a long one, they are not like four months' negotiations. However, I do not understand your reasons for these four months, which could have been boldly from the first day of sickness and earlier. If, after all, the mother of the family or the father of the family who receives the minimum wage is not paid for three days, he is in a difficult situation. Do you think that parents raising the minimum wage and the child alone, say, three children alone, would be able to handle the money?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U72	I wish there was a bad boy. Of course, as I said before, the sooner we would have dealt with it here, the better or more effective it would have been. But we have exactly the pace, the kind of power and the kind of powers we have. As I said, we are looking for a solution to this subject of quarantine. The question is, as I said before, firstly, that the employee must retain responsibility. In this sense, I certainly do not support the reimbursement of sick leave from day one. I think that human responsibility, as I said, must be greater than less in the area of health. Can't just count on someone else. The question is what to compensate for. These spring mechanisms we remember. This labour market measure, which we are all talking about very positively when we look back, also cost 270 million. Unfortunately, our country does not have this capacity, nor does it have it for employees or employers. We just have to look at it, I say it really in the sense that I hope that the Fatherland also stood for it, so that it would be a short-term measure. We must learn to react with short-term measures during the crisis, to respond to these things in this way and, if necessary, to extend the measures. But to set up systems or measures that will last, unfortunately, no one knows how long this crisis will be ours and there is no point in using all the resources in the first phase.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U73	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U74	Thank you. Dear waitress, can you explain? I didn't get it. On the one hand, you admit that, in fact, this question could have been decided in the Riigikogu much earlier, perhaps at least starting to compensate for the sickness days of the second day. On the other hand, you said that your personal view of the world is that the greater the human responsibility for health care, the healthier they are. There is, in my opinion, a slight contradiction here. If, on the one hand, you support the early reimbursement of sick days, so that people's own participation is smaller, but on the other hand, you say that people's ownership should actually be greater, so that our health picture is better, then how do these two things work together?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U75	Yeah, well, I'm telling you, there's always a way to talk less, the more reasonable and better. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] It's a lot different. The responsibility of a worker or a person for his or her health does not only lie in whether he or she has ownership over the first or the first three working days, which is much wider. For me, it is an estimated question, in this sense, whether I know that I am responsible for my health, whether I know what I am eating, what my movement is, how I behave, or whether the health fund is responsible for health in the Republic of Estonia. That is what I mean, above all, not say anything about these measures. It is already an exact science in which you and I agree on and disagree on matters. But that's what I meant, which is why I don't see a direct contradiction between these things for myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U76	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U77	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You're talking like that hindrance that's in motor insurance, that someone's gonna knock your car out, but it's still a hindrance. I don't see that connection with this virus at this expense. If someone who's irresponsible goes around being sick and infects the surrounding people, it's kind of inappropriate. How do you see this responsibility when a person wears a mask, maybe following all the rules, but nobody in the neighborhood or at work does it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U78	Thank you. I replied to Indrek that I had in mind this responsibility in the area of health in a completely different and broader context, not specifically in this period of COVID. Here, I think we agree that if people have symptoms, even small suspicions, we will all be safer if they don't come to work, meet other people, wear masks, and behave sensibly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U79	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. It is now possible to open negotiations. I'd like a call chair for Riina Sikkut.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U80	Thank you, good Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Many references to spring have already been made today. Really, this corona spring was a shock to all of us, was ignorance, decision-making on the run, experimenting. In May, the government decided, exceptionally, to compensate for the first three days of sickness during an emergency. The situation passed, the spread of the virus subsided, and the summer as if it had to be time to prepare for the second wave. To be honest, during the summer, I heard the most of people's concerns about whether distance education would continue or whether children would still be able to go to school and whether compensation for the first days of sickness would continue. The government discussed compensation for the first sick days at the end of August. On 28 August, we received news that the government could discuss the remuneration of the sick list from the first day of illness, on 2 September, that the government would discuss a change in the reimbursement of sick days, and on 15th, that the government would continue to argue about the early reimbursement of the sick list. But on September 19th, at the time the government continued to argue, the Health Board said that people who work sick are responsible for the large number of people who are infected. This was two days after the Social Democrats had already submitted their draft, because the government's summer discussions were not followed by a decision. Yeah, it'll take some time to process, but the virus won't give us time. On October 7, we were able to read the words of the Health Board about the total number of five korona viruses in schools with 70 infected individuals. The majority of the infected children had received the disease from a school where teachers with symptoms had been at work. The Health Board also confirmed that people aged between 20 and 69 are mainly infected at work and at home, and that the main concern and the main pain point is still that symptoms are at work rather than staying at home. In half October, on 19 October, Tartu Postimees informed us that there had been an additional incident in Jõgevamaa and that this was an infection through a working contact. During the monitoring of the Southern Regional Department, there were two colleges at the time, a job in Võru with 24 people and a second job in Jõgeva County with 20 people. Now we come to the end of October. On 27 October, we read in the ERR that the workstations in Tallinn are burning in the production companies. It stated that the problem was not for those who were pre-symptomatic, but that the symptoms of the disease were immediately followed by work, that small workplace sites were formed, and that a family circle of contacts would emerge. On 28 October, we were able to read that the state and employers moved forward with the reimbursement of sick leave. Step forward, but not yet a step to the decision. The Minister of Social Affairs said that the reimbursement of the first three days of illness would certainly help to stay at home and not go to work and thereby prevent the virus. On 18 November, the Social Democratic Party Group finally received the first reading of the draft Act 244 amending the Social Tax Act and the Law on Health and Safety at Work, submitted on 17 September. On November 18th, I said from this very remote area that the disease rate for the last 14 days was 223 for 100,000 people. At the time, it was higher than ever. Today, unfortunately, I have to say that the incidence of the last 14 days for 100,000 people is 396. As of this morning, there were 261 patients in the hospital, 13 patients on controlled breathing. On 17 November, the draft compensation for sick days submitted by the Group of the Social Democratic Party was rejected at first reading. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U81	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U82	The rapporteur for the Commission, Tõnis Mölder, of course, stated that there was still a need to discuss and consider, but that he personally advocates finding a measure that is slightly longer than one year or two years, that it should be such a long-standing thing, because, as we know, many scientists and professors have said that we are going to live with this disease. Tõnis also said that we must find a bill that fits all ages. Now we know that this suitable bill for all ages will establish compensation for four months. Priit Sibul has just said that, in fact, employers agreed to a two-year solution, which would still allow us to survive two winters until a really significant vaccination reaches coverage. At this first reading in November, Tõnis Mölder, in answering Valdo Randpere's question, confirmed that it may be necessary to take time off once, at least to make a decision that is long-term and which also survives other viral waves and economic difficulties. However, unfortunately, this compensation for the first days of sickness was not supported in this Chamber. The next point concerns the state budget. At second reading of the state budget, the Socialist amendment on compensation for the first days of sickness was not supported. The Committee on Finance has now dealt with the allocation of 2.5 million government reserves to the sickness fund to compensate for sick days. On 19 November, the Social Democratic Party again proposed the adoption of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the government, which would oblige it to come up with a solution by 1 December. But now we are here, we are discussing a draft that, from 1 January onwards, could make sickness benefits available to people for only four months. And then we wonder how the virus is spreading and how we have so many workplace sites. We all know that you have to stay home with the first symptoms, but as the Health Board emphasised in September, this will not be done. I'm not tired of repeating: staying home from work means losing a person's income, a week's illness costs a minimum wage of almost 100 euros from a maid. We cannot expect a person to stay at home with mild symptoms if that means coping difficulties for him or her. So there is a clear choice whether to reward sick days more generously so that the difficulties of coping do not force the sick to work, or to save the costs and take the risk of those who are infected going to work. We know what choice the government has made, we see it every day as an increase in the number of people infected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U83	Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U84	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members from the Committee on Social Affairs as well as the people of the secretariat. We have indeed handled this bill quite quickly, and I am glad that this bill has quickly arrived in this Chamber. The previous speaker spoke a great deal about history, and I will return to history once again. I think what the government did in spring was a very big and very noble step. I think that the fact that people were paid salary support for three consecutive months was a very big and right step in this moment of crisis, in this difficult moment, when we did not really know what the economic situation was doing, we did not know what kind of disease it was. I think we're much smarter today. However, the fact that the government took over the whole pay in all sectors and certain sectors for almost three months in the fourth month was, in my opinion, a very large and strong social measure. Now it's different. I'll be back to spring one more time. Similarly, in the spring of this knowledge, we compensated everyone for the sick leaves from day one and opened the way for people to open their own sick leaves. I would like to thank the people of Estonia. They were very responsible. They responded well. In retrospect, family doctors say that people acted wisely and correctly. I will now come back to the autumn period and also to the summers, or rather to the discussions at the end of August. First of all, I will stick to the idea, Riina, that long-term solutions really need to be found. There is a need to find solutions that can withstand all economic situations, all seizures. We know this disease doesn't go away. In this sense, I say once again that it is precisely what has been said at length by the representative of the Commission that is very important in implementing such measures that there are trialogues. They're never easy. I'm sure you know that very well. They are complex, different parties are at the table, trade unions, employers and the Ministry, and they are trying to reach an agreement. We even saw in committee that opinions could be wall-to-wall. However, both employers and trade unions and the Ministry are actually making sure that people's health is preserved and companies have employees who would still be carrying the Estonian economy during this difficult period of outbreak. These are important places. I am pleased that this bill, which is in the Chamber today, is supported by all three parties. This is not of minor importance. Returning to this topic, which Prit spoke about once, quarantine sheets, I would just like to say that we are trying in the Commission, and it seems to me that there is also broad cross-party support for it. I believe, and I sincerely hope, that we will come to this Chamber with this amendment in the near future and will also clarify this slight discrepancy in the law. Then everyone would understand in the same way that sick leaves and quarantine leaves would be reimbursed on the same basis. The first day is a person's own responsibility, I consider it very important that a person also retains some kind of own responsibility, the second until the fifth day is an employer's responsibility and the next day is the responsibility of the health insurance fund. 70% is that rate. Many have argued about this, and one group has offered to be reimbursed from day one. I've always said I don't think it's right in itself. I think that a person must also have such a one-day responsibility. I say once again: I think that the people of Estonia are acting very rationally, very smartly, but I fear that if we start paying compensation from day one, there will be many anomalies and this may not be a sensible solution. I will come back once to this debate on why only a four-month implementing measure. We discussed this at the committee meeting for a long time. The Ministry of Social Affairs said that this system, which will be in force on 1 January, will be continuously analysed and monitored from month to month. If Parliament has a desire and a will, because this outbreak does not really show signs of decline, then we will not be able to extend this period. This is one very important part that will certainly wait to take advantage of this analysis, to either such a... I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U85	Please! Three minutes extra time
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U86	... the application of the method justifies itself. I think that such a short-term measure, by analysing it, knowing in itself that we have a tripartite agreement for two years, does not rule out that we can come back to this issue at the end of March or early April. But there's also an important variable here. Today we all hold our breath and sincerely hope that the vaccine will be ready, it will reach Estonia, and from the beginning of next year we will start to vaccinate certain risk groups. Does it save the situation? Does it have such a short-term effect? We can only hope, but then we can analyze it. Both the role of the Ministry and the role of the Grand Hall are to discuss this issue. I am sure the Social Affairs Committee will also follow with a finger. I would like to say once again that I think the Government of the Republic is taking a very big step forward here, and once again I would like to thank all the political groups for having done this work and the effort together to get this bill to second reading. I hope that this bill will be adopted on Wednesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U87	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In the last speech, we heard a great deal of the word 'hope'. We have to hope, we hope there will be a vaccine, and we hope that we can solve one thing or another. Yes, if evidence - based decisions have not been made at the right time, it is likely that the religious sphere should be turned to receive psychological counsel. However, this is not the most adequate way to lead society. Today we are in a situation where Estonia's infection rate is 400. Mr Mölder was here on 18 November, and we had a little discussion about whether Riina Sikkut was right that there was an infection rate of 233 at the time, or whether it was less than 200, as the Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs thought. Riina Sikkut, as usual, was right. But it doesn't matter. The important thing is that the infection rate has doubled in two weeks. In one region of Ida-Viru County, it is reaching 1000. If we look at the projections for hospital employment, we can safely say that there will be 350 people in the hospital in a week's time. From there a week on, the number is approaching 500. Listen to people like Dr. Talving, Agris Peedu, Urmas Sule, Joel Starkopf. What does this mean for the Estonian health care system? Planned treatment goes down. There is not enough medical staff to provide adequate treatment. At the same time, we hear here: well, we still need to discuss the weather issues, how much ownership should be involved, here, of course, we need to assess a person's own risk if he stays home with a little cold from day one, so that no, people should still have their own responsibility. Of course, these are all very relevant ideological issues of social policy, which this hall should discuss. But not at this moment, when we have a week or two until the Estonian health care system starts to run into overload. This is today's situation. On a global scale, one of the worst corona virus situations is already in Ida-Virumaa. After all, hospital places are now full in this county, where sick people are taken to the clinic in Tartu in some days. We can take Tartu to the clinic because the figures for Tartu until last week were still relatively low, but they are now growing the fastest. It is said in this situation that we will see how we can reach an agreement with employers and trade unions. I do not know how employers like the prospect that planned treatment will go down in Estonia, and not for two weeks, but for two months, for example, and what mortality and wider social costs this entails. Compensation for sick days is one of those issues where you cannot say, like a South Estonia proverb, that you would have known that I was going to fall here, that you would have put hay under it. You knew, we all knew it in the spring, we knew it through the summer, and since September specialists have stressed it every week. Why was the disease highest in Ida-Virumaa even when the second wave just started and was very few elsewhere? Because there are large work groups, or a single person infected with corona, that is to say, they spread it out to a mine, to a larger textile company, etc. In this context, stretching four months with a solution, which will now enter into force on 1 January, after the Estonian hospital system has actually been completely jammed up, well, a grosser mismanagement in managing the corona crisis is hard to find. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U89	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Evgen and I must have pressed the button at exactly the same moment, because the way the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, who also represents the understanding of the Government Union, or at least should represent an understanding of what the current situation is, demonstrated complete ignorance in this remote control, simply forced the remote control to come. It started with how we did the right thing during the spring outbreak, and as an example, the first days of the illness were reimbursed. And then the rest of the pathetic self-righteousness came about, why it's been delayed for months with compensation for these sick days. Then it came down to people being very responsible during the first wave, using these sick days in a very responsible manner. A little while later, the story was that you can't begin to compensate for the first day, because then the anomalies start to appear, and suddenly people aren't responsible anymore. We have a very serious health situation, but the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee is coming and simply demagogueing and advertising to see how we did something during the first wave. Stop looking back, learn something from this retrospect and look a little further forward, everything Riina and Evgeny have numerically drawn for you, wooden and red. The situation is serious. Please take this seriously and do something. A lot of time has been missed. The vice-chairman of your own party has repeatedly said that prevention is because it is prevention that attempts are being made to prevent the worst. Please start taking this seriously. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U91	Thank you. Does Mr Möldr have a request for an answer? No, it's not. There's no more calls. I will close the negotiations and go to the examination of the amendments. Nine of them have been presented. The first amendment, tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs and the Group of the Social Democratic Party, is the position of the lead committee to take full account of. The second amendment, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, is the position of the lead committee to be disregarded. Indrek Saar.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U92	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U93	Let's put it to a vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the lead committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U94	13 in favour, 61 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 3, by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account. Indrek Saar.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U95	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U96	I'll put it to a vote. Dear Riigikogu, can we go to the vote? (You vote in the hall: "Yes! ') I shall put to the vote Amendment 3 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission in this regard being disregarded. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U97	There are 11 members of the Riigikogu, against 63. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 4, tabled by the Social Affairs Committee, takes full account of the position of the commission. Amendment 5, from the Committee on Social Affairs, proposed by the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 6, tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, takes full account of the position of the commission. The seventh amendment, which is tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, is to take full account of the position of the commission. Amendment 8, tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, the position of the commission is to take full account of. And the last amendment, No 9, as well as the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs, is to take full account of the position of the commission. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 257. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U98	Second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State during the French military operation in Barkhane Mali." Mr. Andres Metsoja, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U99	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on National Defence, I invite you to stay in the Chamber because, indeed, the Commission makes these procedural decisions every year, and this time it has also proposed a final vote. On the basis of the draft, the participation of up to 75 Estonian Defence Forces in the French-led military operation Barkhane is decided, which would cost approximately 6 million euros. The draft has been dealt with several times, and presentations have also been heard. No amendments to the draft were tabled by the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 23 November at 3 p.m. However, the National Defence Committee itself made a linguistic clarification of the draft on the advice of the language editor, which was supported by the officials of the Ministry of Defence representing the author. At first, the Commission proposed that the draft be put on the agenda on 8 December, but since tomorrow a review of the Prime Minister's European Union should have been on the agenda, the Bureau proposed to the Commission not to put any more drafts on this day, so that this draft has been postponed to today in cooperation with the Bureau. We ask for the draft to be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U100	Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. It is possible to open negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments have been tabled and the proposal of the lead committee is the final vote on the draft 263. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic 263. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U101	There are 60 members of the Riigikogu, 3 against and 1 abstention. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U102	Today's item No 4, Second reading of draft decision of the Riigikogu "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon" submitted by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Madis Milling, member of the National Defence Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U103	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of this draft, the participation of up to three Estonian Defence Forces in the UN peacekeeping mission UNIFIL in Lebanon will be decided. The draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 14 October and the first reading took place on 11 November. No amendments to the draft were tabled by the deadline for the submission of amendments, including by 3 p.m. on 23 November. At its meeting on 24 November, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to put the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu, including by 8 December. However, as happened with the previous draft, at the request of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, its reading takes place today. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the second reading of the draft and to put the draft to the final vote on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U104	Dear waitress, there are questions for you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U105	Good manager! Good waitress! I really care about Lebanon. But I'm asking what can be done with those three boys in there. Or are they of a different sex?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U106	They're staff officers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U107	Thank you. No further questions. No amendments... Yes, is there a wish for negotiations, ladies and gentlemen? No, it's not. As no amendments were tabled and the lead committee proposed a final vote on the draft 264, we will go to it. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the final vote the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic 264. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U108	64 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U109	Next is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali." The rapporteur is Jaak Juske, member of the National Defence Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U110	Austet Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft concerns two international missions in Mali, Africa. On the basis of the draft, the participation of up to ten Estonian Defence Forces in the European Union Training Mission and the participation of up to five Estonian Defence Forces in the UN Peacebuilding Mission MINUSMA will be decided. The draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 14 October. The first reading was on 11 November. No amendments were tabled within the deadline. However, on the advice of the editor, the National Defence Committee made two minor linguistic clarifications in the draft, which have also been supported by the author. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before the second reading at its meeting on 24 November and approved by consensus the text of the second reading as well as the explanatory memorandum. At the same session, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu. A meeting on 8 December, but as decided by the Bureau, it has been raised to date. The Commission also decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen, that the second reading of the draft be stopped and that the draft be put to the final vote today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U111	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U112	Good manager! Good waitress! Maybe you'll be more specific about what these five militias are doing on a training mission? What exactly does that mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U113	Thank you for your question. These are staff officers and training instructors.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U114	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions. Is there a desire to open negotiations? No, it's not. Amendments, as we have heard from the Commission rapporteur, have not been tabled and the lead committee has proposed a final vote on the draft 265. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the final vote the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic in 265. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U115	There are 58 members of the Riigikogu, against 1. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U116	Next item, No. 6, Second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria" submitted by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Johannes Kert, Member of the National Defence Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U117	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 14 October and the first reading took place on 11 November. The deadline for submitting amendments was including 23 November at 3 p.m. and no amendments to the draft were tabled at that time. On the advice of the language editor, the National Defence Committee made a linguistic clarification of the draft, which was supported by the officials of the Ministry of Defence representing the author. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading, including at its meeting on 24 November, and approved by consensus the text of the draft second reading and the explanatory memorandum. On the basis of the draft, the participation of up to six Estonian Defence Forces in UNTSO peace-building missions led by the UN will be decided. At its meeting on 24 November 2020, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu, including by 8 December. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the second reading of the draft and to put the draft to the final vote on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U118	Looks like there's no questions. Is there a wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. There are no amendments either. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 266 on the draft. Ladies and gentlemen, are we ready to vote? Good. I will put to the final vote a draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic 266. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U119	There are 59 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U120	Second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international military operation Inherent Resolve" 267. The rapporteur is Ants Laaneots, Member of the National Defence Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U121	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 14 October. The first reading of the draft was also held on 11 November. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 3 p.m. on 23 November, with no amendments tabled. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading, including at its meeting on 24 November, and approved by consensus the text of the draft second reading and the explanatory memorandum. On the basis of the draft, the participation of up to ten Estonian Defence Forces in the international military operation led by the United States of America will be decided as a training team for Inherent Resolve. Operating costs are planned at EUR 444700. In his 24th of November. During a meeting, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu, including by 8 December. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the second reading of the draft and to put the draft to the final vote on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Please support the bill! Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U122	Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Would you like to negotiate? No, it's not. There were no amendments. The commission's proposal was for a final vote of 267 on the draft. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. I will put to the final vote the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic 267. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U123	There are 62 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U124	Today's item No 8, second reading of Riigikogu's decision "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation's readiness unit" submitted by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Kalle Laanet, Vice-Chairman of the National Defence Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U125	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was also discussed by the National Defence Committee on 14 October. No amendments to the draft were received by the deadline of 23 November at 15. However, on the advice of the language editor, the National Defence Commission made two linguistic clarifications and one linguistic amendment in the draft, supported by the officials of the Ministry of Defence representing the author. What were the language editor's details? The foreign language names of operations and missions are no longer set in the curfew, according to spelling rules, so that you know it. They are therefore in vertical writing in the text of the second reading of the draft. In addition, on the recommendation of the language editor and pursuant to § 30 (2) of the National Defence Act, the National Defence Commission harmonised the texts of the draft mission, resulting in the word "and' in the text of this draft communication between the Roman numerals VI and VII being replaced by the word "or'. So what's the content of the bill? The content of the draft is that it will be decided if necessary, I would stress that, if necessary, up to 70 Defence Forces will be used as part of the NATO Response Force NRF, or NATO Response Force, and up to 200 Defence Forces will be used as part of the NATO readiness initiative. Like all the other drafts, procedural decisions were in place. Initially, it was scheduled to be on the agenda by 8 December, but at the request of the Bureau, it was brought to this day. It was proposed that the second reading should be completed in a consensual manner. So I urge everyone to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U126	Looks like there's no questions. Thank you, good waitress. Would you like to negotiate? No, it's not. There are no amendments to be examined. We will go to the final vote on draft 267, as proposed by the commission. Can we go to the vote? I will put to the final vote the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic in 268. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U127	There are 61 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U128	The ninth item on the agenda is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the first contribution to it by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or other international military operation led by the United Nations." The rapporteur is Leo Kunnas, Member of the National Defence Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U129	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft concerns the authorisation of the Government of the Republic to deploy up to 50 members of the Defence Forces for the first time in contributing to the military operation. This concerns all types of operations and a situation where there is an urgent contribution. Like other drafts, the Government of the Republic submitted this draft on 14 October. The first reading was on 11 November. On the advice of the language editor, the National Defence Committee made a linguistic clarification of the draft, which was supported by the officials of the Ministry of Defence representing the author. This concerns the inclusion of the word 'and' in this draft. We discussed this draft at the meeting of the Commission on 24 November and approved by consensus the second reading text and the explanatory memorandum. At the same session, we tabled this draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 8 December, but just as other drafts were delayed for today. In addition, the Commission decided by consensus to propose to terminate the second reading of the draft and to put the draft to the final vote on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. I call for the draft to be supported. Thank you! That's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U130	Thank you, good waitress. Looks like there's no questions. Would you like to negotiate? No, it's not. As there were no amendments, we cannot review them. The commission's proposal was to carry out a final vote of 269 drafts. Shall we go to the vote? I will put to the final vote the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic 269. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U131	There are 63 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U132	The next item is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation's mission to Iraq" submitted by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Andres Metsoja, Chairman of the National Defence Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U133	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The NMI, or NATO Mission Iraq, is a mission that will be decided to participate with up to 40 Estonian Defence Forces. These 40 militias contribute to the infantry team, which includes 32 of our fighters, support element 3, medic 2 and staff officer 2 of ours. The draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 14 October. No amendments were tabled by the deadline of 23 November at 3 p.m. However, the National Defence Committee made linguistic clarifications which were supported by the officials of the Ministry of Defence representing the author of the draft. Procedural decisions: by consensus, it was decided to submit the draft for second reading and to hold a final vote. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U134	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 270 on the draft. We are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation mission in Iraq" submitted by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U135	62 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, no respondents and no abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U136	Today's 11th item is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the United Kingdom Expedition Army" submitted by the Government of the Republic. I'd like to ask Peeter Rahnel, member of the National Defence Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U137	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 14 October. The first reading of the draft act took place on 11 November. No amendments were tabled to the draft by the deadline for submitting amendments. On the advice of the language editor, the National Defence Committee made a linguistic amendment to the draft and replaced the word "and" with "or" and was supported by the officials of the Ministry of Defence representing the author. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 24 November and approved by consensus the text of the draft second reading and the explanatory memorandum. This draft confirms Estonia's readiness to contribute to the possible operation of the United Kingdom Joint Expedition Force in 2021 with up to 24 Defence Forces. Procedural decisions. At its meeting on 24 November 2020, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu, including by 8 December. The Riigikogu plenary decided that it would be on the agenda on 7 December, which was also accepted by the National Defence Committee. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the second reading of the draft and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, to put the draft to the final vote. Thank you! Support, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U138	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 271. Can we go to the final vote now? Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, entitled "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the United Kingdom Expedition Forces" 271. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U139	59 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U140	Let's keep going. Today's 12th item is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the training and advisory mission in Afghanistan." I'd like to ask Oudekki Loone, member of the National Defence Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U141	Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 14 October and the first reading took place on 11 November. No amendments to the draft were tabled by the deadline of 23 November at 3 p.m. On the advice of the language editor, the National Defence Committee made one technical specification in the draft, which was supported by the officials of the Ministry of Defence representing the author. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 24 November and approved by consensus the text of the draft second reading and the explanatory memorandum. On the basis of the draft, up to 46 Estonian Defence Forces will be decided to participate in NATO's training and advisory mission. As many procedural decisions as the National Defence Committee decided at its meeting on 24 November to submit a draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu, including by 8 December. However, at the request of the Board of the Riigikogu, as there were already a large number of drafts on the agenda by December 8, the rapporteurs from the National Defence Committee agreed that the debate on this draft mission would take place today, just as with other draft missions, and at today's session of the National Defence Committee, we reaffirmed this decision. Thus, the National Defence Committee proposes by consensus to the Riigikogu to terminate the second reading of this draft and, on the basis of our Home and Working Procedures Act, to put the draft to a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U142	Thank you. You have questions too. Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U143	Thank you. Dear waitress, I have this question: was there also a debate in the Committee on National Defence in preparation for the final vote on this draft, on how the future of our mission, even in the near future, could be affected by the decision of the currently outgoing US administration to significantly reduce the US contingent in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U144	That is an extremely good and interesting question, but we did not have that in the context of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U145	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U146	Thank you. Good Oudekki! There were military missions by the rudder, but you're reporting a draft training and counseling mission. Didn't you want to get involved in a military mission or, for some reason, men were preferred to report draft military missions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U147	Thank you. We certainly did not have a debate on what gender distribution should be according to missions. I wanted to monitor this mission primarily because Afghanistan is one of the countries where I myself have been and worked. I would like to observe how the Estonian state sends its citizens there and how our people work there. With regard to the previous question, I note that we could all want it to be that, although our intervention in Afghanistan has certainly been problematic, while we are already there, it could be of some benefit to this country. And right now I have the impression that we really are of use to Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U148	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U149	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! When this bill was introduced to us in this room, Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik was a little in trouble to answer the question of what happens to those war veterans who have been injured. Do you have any ideas about what can be done for the veterans? The mission is one side of the medal, and what happens afterwards is another.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U150	Thank you. We did not discuss this issue in the Commission, but I think that the Estonian state must certainly pay more attention than has been the case so that our veterans are kept, that their mental and physical health is maintained and that they and their families have a home to live in.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U151	Thank you. No further questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The commission's proposal is to pass the final vote on the draft 273 and we will go to the final vote. Can we go to the vote? We can. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the training and advisory mission in Afghanistan" 273. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U152	63 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal and there are no respondents and no abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U153	Let's keep going. Today's 13th item is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union military mission EUNAVFOR Med/Irini." Please waitress Uno Kaskpeiti, member of the National Defence Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U154	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 14 October. The first reading of the draft act took place on 11 November. No amendments to the draft were tabled outside the Committee on National Defence by the deadline of 23 November. The Committee on National Defence tabled an amendment to the draft as a commission, according to which, in point 2 of the draft, the word "posting' is replaced by "arrival'. This amendment concerns, in particular, the harmonisation of the text of the draft text with the other draft mission texts. There is a time difference between the current wording of the bill, as it may take several days from dispatch to arrival, i.e. until arrival. Procedural decisions. At its meeting on 24 November, the National Defence Committee unanimously approved the text of the second reading and decided by consensus to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu, including by 8 December. [at the request of the Board of the Riigikogu] it was transferred by 7 December. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the second reading of the draft and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, to put the draft to the final vote. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U155	Thank you. You have questions too. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U156	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Here's the question. At first glance, it seems that EUNAVFOR Med/Irin is going to war in the middle of the Mediterranean Sea, but if you go a little further, it mixes up that one of the tasks is to prevent refugees from dying in the Mediterranean Sea. What does it mean to save refugees? Is it that they are not allowed across the Mediterranean or that they are being helped across the Mediterranean?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U157	Yeah. In this respect, I do not know exactly whether they will be transferred or returned.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U158	Obviously, the Commission did not discuss which shore they would be taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U159	That wasn't the question that was discussed, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U160	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U161	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Definitely the defence forces are not engaged in the provision of transport services from point A to point B. This was not a debate in the context of this draft. There will be clear interference in conflict zones where they are and efforts will be made to keep refugees in the room where they are actually located. But this other side of the medal, which I've been talking about several times, I wanted to come over here to clarify it a little bit. Today, the topic of veteran policy was on the agenda of the National Defence Committee. This is largely motivated by the fact that Mr Grünthal has repeatedly asked these questions to both the Minister and the members of the Commission. Perhaps it would be fair to make you public with some important numbers in this hall. The total number of veterans of the Defence Forces and the Defence League is currently over 3,000 and 3.5% of them are women. Nearly half of the veterans have left the service today. The average age of Veterans is 37 years. Most veterans have earned veteran status on a foreign mission, particularly in Afghanistan. And a sad number: 189 members of the armed forces have been permanently injured in the course of their duties. We also asked the representative of the Ministry of Defence what Parliament could do to make our veteran policy better. The answer to us was that our veterans and their families are now well-maintained and supported, there are support services, and there is currently no direct expectation of legislative intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U162	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish for negotiations. One amendment to the draft has been tabled. This has been presented by the National Defence Commission, the position of the Lead Commission: take full account. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 274. We are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the Riigikogu's decision "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union military mission EUNAVFOR Med/Irin" 274. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U163	61 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there are no respondents or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U164	Today's 14th item is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic to make Estonia's initial and school education uniform and Estonian language. I request Signe Kivi, member of the Riigikogu as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U165	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the party of the Reform Party, I present draft 243, which proposes to the Government of the Republic that Estonia's initial and school education be organised into a single and Estonian language that ensures the coherence of society and ensures its competitiveness and equal access to education and the labour market, regardless of the mother tongue of young people. The state, in cooperation with the local government, ensures that young people with another mother tongue can also learn their native language and culture. The transition to uniform early childhood education has been organised by 2024 and is a prerequisite for the transition to a single Estonian-language school education by 2030. What problem do we solve with this bill? Why is there a need for a common education system in Estonian? Firstly, a separate parallel school system does not create a cohesive society, does not support the formation of a state's identity, and re-creates social divides. Secondly, learning the Estonian language as a second language is necessary, but unfortunately not effective. The Estonian language as a second language has been actively studied and taught in Estonia for nearly 30 years, but language learning is too late and language learning is not as effective as pre-school learning. This is why the language revolution in education must start in kindergartens. Thirdly, the opportunities of young people in Estonia for further education and career choices depend on their ability to speak Estonian. Fourthly, Estonian society is changing and we need to be better prepared for it. Aune Valk, Vice Rector for Study at the University of Tartu, says in his study that Estonian society has clearly expressed its willingness to switch to study in Estonian. Nearly 80% of the Estonian population wants education in Estonian to start from kindergarten. I will give examples of these problems, using public studies and analyses. Today is the right time to process this draft, because the Estonian language development plan, the development plan for education, the development plan for youth, research and development, innovation and business development plan for the years 2021 to 2035 have been handed over to the Riigikogu. What the Education Development Plan chapter says: "Aims. The organisation of education supports the coherence of society. Lisa 2"? I quote: "To ensure equal opportunities for a learner with a different home language from the Estonian language, it is important that he or she acquires the Estonian language as early as possible. [---] More than 82% of those attending Russian-language day-care centres continue their studies in Russian-language comprehensive school, with about 52% of those participating in the immersion. In Estonian school, 2% and 10% will continue. Thus, the kindergarten provides an important basis for studying in Estonian at school and it is necessary to support the acquisition of the Estonian language more effectively from kindergarten onwards." This is precisely the aim of this bill: to take early childhood education as a first step towards a common Estonian-language education by 2025. This would be followed as a logical step by the transition to full Estonian general education by 2030. It should be noted that the aim of the Reform Party's draft is also supported by the proposal by the Isamaa Group for a revision of this development plan. I quote: "A comprehensive plan for the development of education in Estonian from pre-primary education to provide sufficient language skills to continue studies in Estonian at the next stages of education and lifelong learning is missing. The deadline for achieving a common Estonian-language education system must be fixed." We note that the transition to education in Estonian was also important in the election promises of Isamaa, EKRE and Estonia 200. The topic was discussed at the debate in the Riigikogu in 2008 on the crucial state issue of "Transfer of Russian-language kindergartens and schools to Estonian-language learning," where Dr. Mart Rannut stressed: if we want students at our school to be able to study in Estonian, this education must start earlier, because we will not be able to bring the student to such a level after primary school or high school that he can understand everything in Estonian and can learn in that language as well. Let's look at the Estonian language development plan, strategic objective 3. I quote: "You have largely switched to Estonian-language school education, i.e. teaching in schools and kindergartens funded by the state and local authorities takes place in Estonian. " As you have heard, both development plans concern learning and teaching the Estonian language, but do not set specific goals or deadlines. And therefore, in its amendment proposal, the University of Tallinn says: "The development plan does not have an operational programme with specific tasks, responsibilities and deadlines. Does the development plan as such have the strength to meet the objectives set? The document can be a slogan. " There is also emphasis on the security policy aspect, the need to teach new immigrants the Estonian language and culture. And they say: otherwise, the system and problem maze of two schools will be re-produced, linked to the knowledge of a bad or non-existent Estonian language among Russian graduates. The University of Tartu in its proposal adds: "The development plan highlights the issue of the English language of higher education, but the society is much more strongly affected by two parallel functioning school systems in basic education. "And also, the chapter of the Estonian language development plan entitled "Employment to the security and external relations of the state" says: it is especially important in security policy that the adults who arrive here receive education in the Estonian language and culture and the customs area as soon as possible and join the Estonian-language information room. The initiators of the bill believe that this also applies to young people and adults with other native languages living in Estonia. The development plans quoted above highlight the importance of learning the Estonian language, but I emphasise that no specific objectives or deadlines have been set. Let's look at the laws in force. § 37 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Everyone has the right to receive instruction in Estonian. The language of instruction shall be chosen by the educational institution at the educational establishment of the national minority. The provision of education is supervised by the State. The Constitution also sets out the principle of equal treatment, which today's educational arrangements do not guarantee. Education Act § 4, point 2: In the territory of Estonia, the state and local government guarantee the possibility of obtaining education in Estonian at all levels of education in public educational institutions and universities. And point 3: The Republic of Estonia guarantees the teaching of the Estonian language in all other language public educational institutions and other language study groups. The next year will be 30 years after the Republic of Estonia regained independence. Estonian language learning and education in Estonian have been a priority since the beginning of the period of independence. In 1993 the Riigikogu adopted an amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and established the principle that by 2000 there will be a uniform and Estonian-language upper secondary school in Estonia. By amending the 1997 Law, this period was extended until 2007. In the 2013-14 academic year, the transition to Estonian-language education ended, with at least 60% of compulsory courses being taught in Estonian at municipal and state schools upper secondary school. 60% of the courses in Estonian in turn mean that the student's language of instruction is Estonian. However, even after the transition to Estonian-language education, education in upper secondary school remains essentially bilingual. We will look at the Human Development Report from 2017. I quote: "In Estonia, the professional progress of Russian-speaking people is slower, which in turn is the reason for lower incomes and in turn affects where people can live, i.e. the choice of people's place of residence. This has led to segregation, which means that people with Estonian and Russian native languages are increasingly living in different regions, causing a vicious circle of state-led parallel worlds. The consequences are both social, economic, cultural, as well as security and public health. The kindergarten and school system, which divides children into parallel worlds on the basis of Estonian and Russian language, really produces more and more problems, the consequences of which go beyond language skills." I asked the Ministry of Education and Research whether in-depth studies have been carried out on 60:40 arrangements today, and received a reply from Deputy Chancellor Kristi Vinter-Nemvalts: the Ministry has not directly commissioned studies on 60:40 education arrangements. However, the letter shows that different programs and articles show both pros and cons. But I found the 2017 survey "Integrating Russian-speaking students into the Estonian education system" of the Estonian Student Union, and it shows among many different, also positive examples that 60: 40 is not working. Students must first learn the Estonian language, only then can they focus on the content of the lesson. Russian youths sense that their language level and understanding of the subject are bad when studying in Estonian. In Russian-language schools there is a shortage of competent teachers who speak both Estonian and Russian and give their subject very well. Finally, the teaching materials of Russian-language schools in Estonian are often outdated, impractical and unnecessary and difficult to understand for the learner. Thus, the initiators of the draft consider that changes in the organisation of education are needed, because the significant difference between Estonian and Russian-speaking learners lies in the poorer learning outcomes of Russian-speaking learners. This is confirmed by the results of the PISA tests. Students from Russian schools are nearly a year behind their study results. In schools with Estonian language of instruction, the results of tests in all areas tested by PISA are significantly better than in Russian language and language immersion schools. The data were taken from the results of the PISA tests as well as from an article by the University of Tartu in 2018. Problems and solutions. So far, one of the biggest obstacles and problems in the transition to a unified school system has really been the poor knowledge of Estonian by Russian school teachers, and time has unfortunately shown that this problem does not improve by itself. Perhaps the most intrusive example is the information published in the media this autumn about the director of the Russian Lyceum of Tallinn City Hill, who has been checked since 2000 but, despite many language courses, he has not been able to acquire the required C1 language level. Actually, there's no law. The school also has outdated and non-Estonian teaching materials. The problem is completely serious. We believe that perhaps this is precisely why some municipalities are failing to comply with the language law and are overlooking the fact that their region's school leaders are not, despite many reminders, courses... (Well, now I have had a minor text. I'm sorry! )... and improved their knowledge of the national language of fines. But if there is no common room for education, language and custom, it is no wonder that the identity of the state is also bumpy, and unfortunately this attitude is passed from councils to school leaders and from teachers to pupils. In 2019 the Keeleinspektsioon stated that in the four major cities of Ida-Virumaa, Narva, Kohtla-Järve, Jõhvi and Sillamäe, more than 500 school teachers' Estonian language skills do not correspond to the legal level. Some 450 kindergarten teachers and 260 teachers do not meet the language requirements in the cities of Ida-Virumaa. Tallinn and Harjumaa add more 350 kindergarten teachers and 80 teachers. Thus, in Ida-Virumaa and Tallinn and Harjumaa, there are some 1800 educational staff whose national language skills do not meet the requirements of other language schools or kindergarten staff. (Article 2019 of Ilmar Tomusk) Thus, the biggest and most challenging challenge of the transition to a common and Estonian-language general education is the training of teachers with a high level of knowledge of the Estonian language, and it is therefore reasonable to resolve the gradual transition over a longer period and achieve a common and Estonian-language education by 2030. It should be noted that universities have clearly expressed their ability and readiness to switch to Estonian-language education, highlighting the importance of initiating a state programme to train teachers to succeed, including to support students with other native languages in the Estonian-language school. The need to develop an incentive package for Estonian-language schools to receive and teach children with other native languages is highlighted and concrete proposals are made to Russian schools for a transitional period. Recommendations are also for creating a motivation package for teachers teaching in Estonian in Ida-Virumaa and for legislative and administrative measures to develop the existing school system. The extracts were taken from letters from the University of Tartu and Tallinn University to the Estonian Language Problem Committee of the Riigikogu in March and February this year. And as far as universities are concerned, at our meetings with university rectors, they have recognised that the state is really very good, however, with very good general education, free general education, but then young people disappear somewhere. I quote to the rector of the Estonian Academy of Arts Mart Kalmu: "Today many young people disappear and, unfortunately, we do not see our second-language young people coming to Estonian universities to the extent that there is expectation and the cohort of secondary school graduates." Statistics. The statistics in the explanatory memorandum to the bill have changed slightly since today. The proportions are the same, but a few days ago, this statistics were updated on 4 December, so I'm not going to read it right now. You may have questions. One moment, please! How much time do I have left?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U166	There's three and a half minutes left, but if there's a need, there's an extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U167	Thank you. A little about the immersion and investments in Estonian language. I'm going to use Minister Reps's data to answer the question on 9 November in this very hall. In fact, there is very, very much money to support all these measures. Indeed, a significant contribution to Estonian-language education has been foreseen for the period 2021 to 2027. The Minister pointed out EUR 32.2 million of European funds plus 13.8 million of co-financing, a total of 46 million over a period of six years. From next year's state budget explanatory memorandum, we will see that there will be a total of EUR 9 million for various projects, programmes, improvements, additions. I also tried to find the budget for the integration plan for previous periods and years. They are not only in the Ministry of Education and Research, but also in the budgets of other ministries. I relied on Irene Käosaare, the long-term head of the Integration Foundation, who sent me an overview that EUR 68 million was earmarked for integration in 2014 to 2020. To sum it up. The initiators of the draft act realise that such a structural reform is not feasible immediately, requires a period of preparation and different regional action plans and additional funding from the state budget. The biggest and most time-consuming challenge of the transition to a common and Estonian-language general education is the training of teachers with a high level of knowledge of Estonian language, and it is therefore reasonable to resolve the gradual transition as foreseen in the draft. Making early childhood education a common and Estonian language is really easier, as the need for labour training is narrower. There is a need for high-level kindergarten teachers and teachers with good skills in Estonian. The transition does not need to be organised in stages, but is a continuous process. This process is also supported by interest in early childhood education as a teacher. It was only a few days ago that the head of Pedagogicum, University of Tartu, in the debate on a key national issue, pointed out that the competition for the teacher of the children's institution had been more than ten applications to one place in recent years. The same trend is true at Tallinn University. Finally, on behalf of the initiators, I stress the need for a complex, analysed approach to the transition to a common Estonian-language education and its organisation is the responsibility of the executive authority. The laws governing the language of instruction need to be amended. I shall list them: the Education Act, the Private School Act, the Interest School Act, the Language Act, the Citizenship Act, the Pre-School Children's Institution Act, the Vocational Training Institution Act, the Higher Education Act, the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and the Aliens Act and the subsequent regulations. Transitional periods are also important for the training and retraining of the workforce. There is a need to create transition models suitable for regional situations, which can prepare changes with the help of universities in cooperation with community representatives. Of course, the concerns of Estonian parents who fear that their accustomed school culture will change must also be understood. However, I would point out that our decision does not provide for the integration of Estonian and Russian-speaking schools into force, but for the transition to the Estonian-language education system, as is the most sensible thing to do in every community. However, ladies and gentlemen, above all, political will and decision are needed. Estonian society is ready for a common Estonian education organisation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U168	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U169	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! Listening to your presentation, parents who speak Russian or other languages have a great willingness to put their children into the Estonian kindergarten and school system. Could it be that the legislator has gotten in the way of time here? Secondly, I am reading today in the Eesti Päevaleht Tõnis Lukas, the position of our Minister of Culture on this issue and I quote to him that a good knowledge of the state language will also provide the best prospects for the people of Estonia in other languages. Is it possible to read here that both the Commission and the Chamber may also have the support of the Fatherland for this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U170	Thank you very much for this question. This last part is very interesting and, of course, I hope so too. Looking at all the previous debates in this Chamber, especially the result of the previous Riigikogu vote, when only one vote was missing on a similar bill, and having really read the electoral promises of all political parties, very serious and very programmed promises on this subject, we hope. But it is true that, on the one hand, it is more right to say that parents with a different language have started to want their children to study at a school in Estonian, and there are certainly quite reasonable reasons for doing so. First of all, we know that these Russian young people, who also acquire Estonian, are actually in a much better position here in the Estonian labour market than today's Estonian young people, who, unfortunately, do not learn Russian and do not know it freely. I'm certainly not talking about all the families. If we take statistics, I would read now that we have 516 general education schools with 153155 students in Estonia. There are 67 schools with 21981 students with Russian language of instruction, 7621 students in general education schools are in language immersion, but already 17573 other native-language students are studying in Estonian in schools where Estonian-language education is prevalent. Indeed, we also have to take into account that since there is no big plan, there is no purpose, there are no peaceful deadlines, then there are problems in many Estonian-language schools today. It's just resistance. I think whether we look at this question from this side or from that side, or even from the point of view of the teachers' follow-up that we dealt with in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, it all goes there, that it is one whole and that this whole must be resolved in an integrated way, otherwise we will try it, the second, the third and the fourth. In fact, maybe the big picture of education is positive now, but if you think about the Auditor General's presentation right here in this Chamber, we are facing major problems and major choices, and today's draft is a very important comprehensive choice. I hope I answered the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U171	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U172	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your very thorough presentation. We had a meeting with representatives of the Ukrainian community and they told members of the Riigikogu that the Ukrainians wanted to put their children in an Estonian-language school, but they did not get a place. You spoke in your presentation that in schools with basically Russian language, many teachers are not good enough, C-level Estonian is old. Do you think that the Estonian state has not left parents with Russian native language in trouble in providing their children with a proper learning environment and good teachers and teaching materials?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U173	Thank you very much for your question. I would like to begin by saying that I considered it necessary to meet representatives of the Ukrainian community. We talked for a very long time with the representative of the Congress of Estonian Ukrainians, Vira Konõk, and also with the Chairman of the Association of Ukrainian Organizations in Estonia, Volodomõr Palamar. Of course, the Ukrainian community in Estonia is not united either, but they say that in most of Estonia they wish to give their children education in Estonian and are not afraid to lose their national identity. We know that Ukrainian Sunday school is very strong and started working a long time ago. I think that this is certainly the desire of other ethnic minorities, but they do not have this option at the moment. Let's talk about Belarusians and others. So, yes, the draft of the common and Estonian-language organisation of education has actually tried to think more about all the other people who live in Estonia who have already linked and want to continue to link their and their children's future with Estonia. And as I have already said, if they acquire Estonian in addition to Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian or other languages, plus a few other foreign languages, then their children are in a very good position in the education and labour market.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U174	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U175	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! The goal is sacred and good: to teach our language to all children. The fact that most other languages want to learn the Estonian language is known. I have been a school manager in Ida-Virumaa and I have seen the strong pressure that non-language parents want to put their children in Estonian schools. This has led to the situation in several schools that the parents of Estonian children are taking their children out of there and are leaving the area themselves, because the pressure of the other language is strong. Don't you think that if we take away the decision-making power of the headmaster, how many other language children he can take to his school, and force the law into this [obligation], that means that we will lose a very large number of Estonian people in our region? They're gonna come off and pick up their own kids.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U176	Thank you. This is, in fact, a complex problem which I agree with you on, I think has been little dealt with in the Estonian country. But shouldn't it also be our interest to expand the sphere of influence of the Estonian language, to teach the Estonian language to those people who are in this country today, whose parents-grandparents have made this decision for a long time? I think it's an unfinished job, but it's also a job that needs to be clarified. Those Estonian-speaking communities that currently live in areas where they are outnumbered, and these schools definitely need to be supported. By the way, the Reform Party proposed a corresponding amendment to the state budget for the following year, which was not supported. I think that there are no simple solutions here, but we need to speak openly about these problems, and if our aim is nevertheless a common and Estonian-language education, then this education includes children with both Estonian and other native languages, whether Russians, Ukrainians, Belarusians or Finns, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U177	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U178	Thank you. Good waitress, I hear you're fighting some kind of straw men here. On the one hand, you say that Estonian is not taught at all in the Russian-speaking school, and on the other hand you say that all Russian-speaking people actually want to go to the Estonian school. Talk like it really is. First of all, we're not talking about those who already want to. We are talking about the people of our country, the children born here, the citizens of our country whose family would like their children to learn in their own language, which is their constitutional right and freedom. How about now, are we going to tell the schools how exactly they have to teach the Estonian language? Next, let's tell them how they're supposed to teach the basics of mathematical analysis. Is it really reasonable that it is decided by the government that it will be decided by Parliament how exactly the language must be taught, or is it enough if we say yes, it must be taught? How? As the Constitution says. How to teach it is up to the school. Let's trust our people, let's not make Estonian a chunk with which to attack minorities, but show them: this country belongs to all of us, whether you are Estonian or Russian or other nationalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U179	Thank you. I totally agree! It must be shown that this country is everyone's, to give everyone a level playing field. This is also the meaning of the Constitution: everyone has the right to receive instruction in Estonian. But can he get it now? Well, that's not possible today. Some kindergarten children whose parents want their children to receive education in Estonian are directed to Russian-language kindergartens. This problem must be resolved in this way. There is no need to scare society today in 2020, that from tomorrow all Russian schools will be shut down, you can no longer speak Russian, you must not speak Russian in kindergarten or school. These are such intimidations that could remain somewhere in the late 1980s. It only produces anger. I think that politicians should have a sense of responsibility to look at Estonian society as a whole today, to turn their hands, face, heart and desire towards all people. We are talking today, Mr Oudekki Loone, about a national curriculum and about the training given for taxpayers' money. Nobody bans schools that teach Russian, English, French. We also have a Jewish school.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U180	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U181	Thank you. Good colleague, that speech was extremely good! It was a very nice and beautiful speech. I listened to it. It's like it was written off from an EKRE educational program. Very nice, very much statistics, examples of pleasure. But at the same time, I have to say that two things have to be separated here: one thing is this call, and the other thing is the decision you have brought on the table. This decision is a total disappointment. The title sounds really good. After all, we all want to have an education in Estonian. We all wish for it. But for me, the question is, I will formulate it this way: how should the government act on such a decision? Because there are three parts to this decision. The first part is the goal, it's very good, it overlaps with the title. The second part is how the state, in cooperation with the local government, must ensure, for example, that young people in Uganda have the opportunity to learn Uganda or Chinese or something else. It's like a goal, but the path to achieving the goal? I don't understand! And then the deadline, 2024, and 2030, this is the third step. The explanatory memorandum, of course, consists of a very large collection of statistics. I just don't understand how the government should be guided by this decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U182	Thank you very much for your question and your praise. I will answer first of all how the government must behave. I can't tell you today, nor can the initiators. The government has competence, I think. There are three parties in the coalition, two of whom you yourself emphasised, EKRE and Isamaa have been champions of a common Estonian-language education for years. So the help of these members and political groups of the Riigikogu is very welcome here. When we talk about deadlines, I think this is very important. I know that very many of the members of the Central Party Group with whom I have spoken agree in principle. Actually, I don't think there's anyone in this hall who doesn't see the need for this bill. We may see different ways and definitely different timetables. But if we take a decision that doesn't have a timetable, it'll happen the same way as with the 1993 law's amendment, he'll be lingering. I think these deadlines are considered. They have been negotiated with universities that provide basic teacher education. You can't stretch that deadline too long. After all, ten years of uniform upper secondary school education is a very, very long time. I remember that among the many materials I read to educate myself, I was touched by the article of Tallinn's district manager last year, where he talks about the same problem, but he says that yes, it cannot be done in haste, it needs at least ten years. It's been 10 years in the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U183	Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On this issue, Estonia is already quite far behind our neighbours from Latvians. Currently, all schools in Latvia are fully taught in Latvian, and social cohesion is growing visibly. At the same time, segregation based on language is getting worse in Estonia. Previously, three attempts have been made in the Riigikogu to transfer basic and secondary education to the national language. So far, political parties in the government coalition have not supported it. Even if this bill is not supported today, how much more time will we lose and watch the segregation deepen?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U185	Thank you. I think we are supporting this draft today. As I mentioned earlier, I have tried to have a conversation and also to argue with all the members of the political groups represented in the Riigikogu. In the Committee on Culture, the procedure for the draft was very busy, constructive, thorough and long. I would like to thank all the members of the Committee on Culture who asked me questions. I also received their feedback for today's presentation on the subject. But now, coming to the first part of this question, which I don't remember correctly...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U186	That everything is better in Latvia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U187	Yes, thank you! I haven't been on this remote for a long time, it's a little loud in here, and I guess the excitement is on. Indeed, countries have used different models. But specialists in this field, university professors, especially PhD Mart Rannut, have convinced me that he also convinced me to start early education here two years ago. This is evidenced by all international studies and is evidenced by the personal experience of many people who, for example, because of their job, move to another country and take their young children with them. We will take the city of Brussels, where there is a very large Estonian community. A four-year-old child starts his education at a French school, they call it a school. He also has Estonian lessons. It's hard at first, but then he'll be fine. This is just one example. I would like to stress that, therefore, this bill and my presentation also dealt with a number of reasons why the language revolution should start with early childhood education, because it takes place there in games. But really, national experiences are different and we have the opportunity to learn from these experiences today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U188	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U189	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you for this meaningful and peaceful debate, for a good presentation. This brought some new facts to me, even though I have been working on this for three years. After all, we are actually looking here in the Riigikogu for the topics that unite us, where there is this common section, this positive side of nationalism, Estonian language, equal opportunities, this is definitely the common part. It seems to me that today we are in an ideal situation where the largest, the largest group in the Riigikogu at all, proposes this transition. The coalition can decide exactly how to do this in the government. We can still make amendments; we can refine the details along with everyone else. Yet we are here for the fourth time. How do you feel if this bill were to be presented in exactly the same form as either the Fatherland or the EKRE Group, would it be more likely to go through?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U190	Thank you. I will begin by saying that if it had been submitted by another parliamentary group, I would certainly have supported this draft. It is clear that amendments and amendments can always be proposed on the draft. I also think that this bill may not be perfect. The questioners have also expressed their views here. But now, if you think about whether or not he would be more likely to be accepted, I must draw on my very short-term experience as a member of the Riigikogu between 2003 and 2005 and now. Possibly. But why not achieve this principled consensus and not simply reject the draft, but discuss, debate, involve the public. I think that both I and the initiators of the bill agree and are positive in this respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U191	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U192	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you for this very meaningful presentation. I will pick up where my colleague, Yoko Alender, left off. The Reform Party has already done so several times in this big hall, and this bill has become more nuclear and reasonable in every way. I refer, for example, to cultural heritage and deadlines. This draft has reached a stage in its content where it is difficult for the coalition, and especially for two parties who have repeatedly stood for education in Estonian, to oppose it. During the debate in the Commission, there were no arguments against it. Today, however, the media are full of dissent, explaining why this bill may not be the best. My question to you, Signe, is: were there any consensus or clear disagreements within the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U193	Thank you very much. I felt a great deal of support and consensus in the Commission, and I dare to quote Mart Helmet, who was an alternate in the Commission, who said: Signe, you know that for years our party has also supported the transition to a single Estonian-language education.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U194	Mr. Grünthal, is this a procedural question? A microphone for Mr. Grünthal, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U195	Thank you. I would like to draw attention to the answers of the honourable rapporteur. The point is that you are talking about proposing amendments here. It is currently a draft decision for which no amendments can be tabled. Try to be more correct in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U196	Thank you very much. It was a very important observation, I try to be more correct. But it was perhaps an appeal that it would be possible to discuss this subject in the future if we did not find consensus today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U197	Thank you. Let's keep going. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U198	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The method of language immersion in Estonia is 22 years old and has helped many people to learn the Estonian language; it is a recognised method throughout the world. My question is: if it works best at kindergarten age, do we have enough teachers to do it? You have excellent statistics in this presentation, but I kind of forgot. If you could just reflect a little bit more on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U199	Thank you very much. I'm about to find the portion of the immersion. Indeed, since 2000 very good work has been done in the area of immersion. But different studies claim that it's not my claim that immersion brings more language skills, but it doesn't break segregation. And I have no reason not to believe these claims. The draft does not mean that we deny all other methods, education in Estonian for adults, different forms of immersion. Let me see if I can find the numbers for the immersion. Yes, 7621 students are covered by immersion in general education schools in Estonia, 3470 children in early childhood education. This number has grown steadily, and this means that the number of Estonian speakers in the Estonian country has increased, but all the problems I have highlighted in the past still remain. Particular emphasis will be placed on segregation, equal opportunities, further educational choices for young people with other native languages. Let me give you an example here. I was very surprised and it is not a bad example that there are 99 vocational education institutions in Estonia where you can study in Russian and 66 where you can only study in Russian. I think vocational training is very important, but statistics also show that students with other languages, i.e. Russian, go to vocational training much more than Estonian primary school graduates. One reason is that they perceive that they cannot handle Estonian at upper secondary school. I hope I answered the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U200	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U201	Thank you. I believe that, at least to our door side, we should stress what sounded there on one issue: the fact that it is very important to teach the Estonian language is not the content of this draft. Not in Estonian, but in Estonian! But they have attacked this bill with talk, and even in writing, that if a couple of Russians get into school or class, they'll start speaking Russian, and that's a disaster. Please open up some of this disaster, so what happens when people talk to each other in their own language? Is education going to collapse?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U202	Thank you very much. First of all, thank you for this emphasis. In preparing the text and reading it over and over again, I tried to stress that learning Estonian does not mean teaching in Estonian. Language learning is very important, but today's draft is a common Estonian-language school education. As for the concern, what happens if somewhere in school, at work, somebody on the street speaks another language, I think there's a world-viewed water heater. It's never bothered me. But, of course, I am not defending my draft in this Chamber today, I am defending our group, our party's draft. We look at many problems and questions with a slightly different perspective. We're trying to be understanding, we're liberals. I have to admit, I have a special language, but the Estonian-minded environment has always been very fond of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U203	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U204	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I will continue on a similar subject, which used to sound here, that studying the Estonian language and the education system in Estonian are two very different things. We have a lot of language immersion classes today, and kindergartens have joined the language immersion system, but despite this, the figures that you have put out nicely and which are also mentioned here in the explanatory memorandum that more and more Russian-speaking children go to both Estonian-language kindergartens and Estonian-language schools. The question is how the state supports these Estonian-language schools and kindergartens. I looked at the state budget for next year, and I did not find such a line that these schools would be supported in teaching children in other languages, but in the immersion of the language. Have you found it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U205	Thank you very much. First of all, if I may, I will answer the question of Urve Tiidu, which was half unanswered, whether there are enough teachers and assistant teachers in kindergartens today. The honest answer is, of course, there isn't. Of course not! We have a chronic shortage of teachers and we have to deal with this problem. And if we are dealing with this problem by aiming for a common Estonian-language school education, then all our activities in the field of education are aimed at it. I am currently taking out an explanatory memorandum to the state budget for 2021, from which I will read to you that support for Estonian language, cultural and educational studies will be increased in order to ensure the continuity of the Estonian education, language and cultural space. A total of 8 million euros has been planned to support students with different mother tongues in Estonian. Of this, 3 million are intended for pre-school institutions. To achieve the objective of the Estonian language and Estonian performance area, a language programme has been established. The budget shall provide for the allocation of EUR 58530. Action: ensuring the teaching of Estonian as a second language and supporting learning. The aim of the measure is to improve and expand the Estonian language skills of the Estonian population in other languages. 863000 euros. And an integration programme of €13740. The answer to the question: no, what you asked about is not. And I think it's a very big problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U206	Dear colleague Oudekki Loone and all the other colleagues who have registered for the second question! For this item on the agenda, a question can be asked to each of the rapporteurs. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U207	Good waitress! Listening here to the statements of the EKRE members and reading in the media too, I feel that there has been a slight sad trend. First of all, I would like to ask you whether I understand correctly that, by looking at the purpose of this draft and at a sufficiently long transitional period, this draft actually takes account of the fact that it is possible to prepare teaching materials, aids, teachers, etc. When we take the Riigikogu elections programmes for 2019, EKRE was one of the parties that promised education in Estonian. Unfortunately, it seems to me that now we are starting to break our words, because really, if we look at this bill, the idea of this bill is that we give a long time, we give the opportunity and the opportunity for everyone to switch to a common Estonian education from kindergarten to kindergarten, so that society is ready for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U208	Thank you for the question and, in fact, the content that answers the question. Indeed, the draft deadlines were discussed with university professionals who train teachers, and I think they are completely real. And in the case of teacher training, assistant teacher training, I would stress one very important thing in my opinion. It is a fear and a question of what will happen then to these Russian-speaking teachers. We need everyone. Just as we need all our people in society, we also need teachers who, for reasons beyond their control, are not able to speak enough Estonian. When we talk about assistant teachers, there is a clear need for teachers who speak Russian and are able to help students in schools to provide a uniform education in Estonian. So the honest answer to your question is yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U209	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U210	Thank you, President-in-Office. Thank you, good Signe! Of course we are champions of a common Estonian-language education, absolutely we are. But once you came to me to ask if we supported this bill, I told you very clearly: yes, we support a common education in Estonian, but what you offer for the solution is absolutely not right for us. This is the convergence school system where we take and put all the children together in one school, Estonian children and Russian children in one school, and we start teaching them together. What else I don't like about this right now is that you presented it as a draft decision. You took away the opportunity to propose amendments, involve specialists, parents, other interest groups, do analysis, study social impacts. And most cynical: you didn't take into account the views of the teachers at all. I understand they haven't even been asked. What do the teachers of Estonian schools think about the possibility that today, apart from many other burdens that were discussed in the framework of the OTRK, the aim is to give teachers of Estonian schools the obligation of forced integration? In 17 years, the Reform Party has done nothing to turn Russian schools into Estonian, to prepare work materials and methods. The aim is now to place all this work without politicians' involvement on the already overburdened shoulders of Estonian teachers. Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U211	Thank you very much for the question and thank you also for the very calm conversation we had for a while! You said in the process that you really supported this goal, but since this is the coalition right now, I'm afraid... You didn't say you were quite against it either. Thank you also for the fact that in the committee where you could not be, but there was Mart Helme, there was basic support for this objective and there were also questions that, as I said earlier, helped me prepare for this presentation. But as for the part that we do not offer solutions, the draft decision does not mean one solution. Solutions can be different. I stressed in my report that this is the task of the executive. I think that, if a decision is taken, there is enough time for professionals, universities, involving communities, to propose solutions that are discussed by the public. Second. I'd be happy to answer that we were in power for 17 years. During these years there have been 20 ministers of education in Estonia, with now a new minister of education. Of these two, Jürgen Ligi and Maris Lauri have been Ministers of Education of the Reform Party. I believe that during this period all education ministers actually moved, as far as possible, towards this objective. I want to believe it. Jürgen Ligi, who was Minister of Education for just over two years, and Maris Lauri, who was Minister of Education for just under three months, actually took quite a long step. This statement that I am not, or we are not, 'cause this is not my draft with teachers, is not true. Now I have to say that I am simply reading out the list that I met, but the entire group has dealt with this draft, so there were many times more meetings. Priit Reiska, Vice Rector for Education at the University of Tartu Aune Valk, Vice Rector for Education at the University of Tallinn Priit Reiska, Head of Pedagogicum at the University of Tartu Margus Pedaste, Head of Integration Foundation Irene Käosaar, Long-term teacher, former Director of the School of Ida-Virumaa Heidi Uustalu, Doctor of Philosophy Mart Rannut, Head of Development of the Department of Study at the Academy of Internal Defence, Association of student governments, Student Association, Teachers of Tallinn Real School, Teachers of Tallinn French Lytseum. I also read all the letters I received in response to my inquiries from different schools. No one is perfect and there could always be more information, but I believe that the purpose of the bill is clear. Please, let's take it down! Today, here in the Riigikogu Chair, I do not wish to point the finger at any government, not at any political party. Let's take this time and move on from here! I have faith.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U212	Jürgen Ligi, is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U213	Yeah, I have two procedural questions, the first one I'm gonna ask. Is it true that no amendments can be tabled to the draft decision? The second procedural question would be this: how do colleagues imagine that only things that have already been done can be done? This is a reference to the previous questioner and many previous ones. That's what I'm not asking right now, but I'd like to know the answer to the first question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U214	The answer is that amendments can be made to the draft decision, but the deadline for submission is already over. I can't now. However, in principle, domestic and operational procedures allow amendments to be made. [[A voice from the hall.]] How? The Commission has set a deadline for the submission of amendments. Yeah, I had a chance to present, but I can't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U215	Can I ask you a question? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U216	No. If you finish your report and go there, you can ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U217	And you can't ask the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu now?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U218	You can now ask rhetorical questions in your presentation. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U219	Okay. I will try to lengthen it into the answer to the next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U220	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U221	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, Well, this draft decision isn't very original. I think a lot of people agree. But there are discrepancies in how to achieve the goals. I don't want to attack you, I have two substantive questions for you. Firstly, what do you think are the key factors that will ensure a very rapid or relatively rapid transition to education in Estonian? Name two or three. And secondly, what do you think, how many Russian-language school teachers the country is currently preparing on average for the year?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U222	Please repeat the last question. [[U. Espenberg will specify the location.]] Yes, how many Estonian teachers to Russian schools? Thank you very much for your question and for your promise not to attack. I think that this is not the subject of attack in this sense, that we live in the Republic of Estonia and that we wish to establish Estonia in the Estonian educational system, but that everyone would have equal opportunities and all the peoples who live here would preserve their language and culture and be proud of it. This is what I've experienced in communicating with representatives of the Ukrainian community. The key factor is what the draft states: early childhood education. Let's start with early childhood education. I hope that I am not mistaken that if the Riigikogu had adopted this direction earlier... In fact, he took it, but there were certain reasons why this goal was being pushed further and further away. But let's just say that, at the beginning of the independence period, there were huge changes in society, which were much, much more severe than this draft today, which concerns the organisation of education, although its impact falls on every aspect of life. I guess that would have been done by then. The day before yesterday, I had a conversation with Tõnis Lukas and tried to remember how much this topic was dealt with in 1999-2002 when we were in the government and he was the Minister of Education. I asked him to refresh my memory because at that time the young person had so many problems in the cultural space that I did not immediately recall these facts. And he gave me a long lecture. So once again, here's the temporal reference that there have been some very different governments on the way there. But your second question is how many Estonian teachers are currently being prepared. Do you mean both the University of Tartu and the University of Tallinn? Those are the questions I asked at the university meeting. I have to say, I haven't written that in my notes, and I don't trust my memory unless I have a visual in front of me. So I can't answer, but I'm sure I'll answer you later, because it's in statistics. All those things that exist in statistics somewhere, I think, are available to all members of the Riigikogu. But I definitely should have taken it out. [[Someone's gonna say something about the hall.]] None? Yeah, I know, but I didn't dare say, 'cause I didn't have it in my way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U223	Mr. Grünthal, please, a procedural question? [[K. Grünthal speaking in position.]] I'm sorry! No, I don't understand, the first procedural and one question has been asked. (K. Grünthal explains his position.)
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U224	Yes, it was.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U225	Got it. I'm sorry! Kalle Grünthal, please, a substantive question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U226	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In physics, which is known to be subject to the laws of nature, there is a narrower sub - theme of colors, or colour circle. The colour circle has three main colours, or primary colours: yellow, red and blue. Mixing the basic colours will result in a mixture of secondary or secondary colours. Red plus yellow gives orange, yellow plus blue gives green and red plus blue gives violet. In fact, your draft decision is subject to exactly the same laws, even though it is covered by the best of purposes. Its content creates a situation in which we no longer preserve Estonian language, and there is an effect where Estonian language begins to fade. The idea is good, but wouldn't you like to take this bill back and make it better?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U227	Thank you very much. With your question, you woke up an artist in me, and I want to say that red and blue doesn't always give me violet. Depending on the shades of color, there are very-very many reds, and blues can sometimes also come in a very ugly brown. But let this be the beginning of the answer such a warm-up. No, we are not afraid that the Estonian language will fade away. When I answered one question, I published what I feel, but not only do I feel that I have received support from a very, very wide range of articles. If we are concerned that there are few of us, that there are Estonian-speaking people, say, one million, and we have a very large number of people who do not speak Estonian, whose native language is otherwise, why are we so jealous that we do not want to teach them the language of our country in more volumes and since kindergarten? Why do we fear that our national feeling, our native tongue, will fade away? I don't think so. I think there are really different world-view principles here, and I respect them, but I don't want us to scare society with this. I don't want to underestimate the problems because they already exist today. I brought them out in the report. We have problems in Estonian schools today, we have problems with the secondary growth of teachers today, we have problems with the financing of education today, and the proposal is to start solving them as a whole, with the aim of legitimising education in Estonian in Estonia, which guarantees equal opportunities for all people living here. I would like to remind you that Jüri Ratas has started, finished and repeatedly emphasised this in almost every presentation, but also in the presentation of the 2035 strategy paper: our aim is a cohesive society in which all people have equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U228	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U229	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress, thank you for your excellent presentation and even more excellent answers. There's been a good dialogue. I'm sticking to the subject of fear. There have been talk and questions about what happens when children of different nationalities are put into one class at a time. You yourself replied from an example that if Estonian children have gone abroad and there to school, they have done well. I can confirm exactly the same from my personal experience with my three children. All three of them began teaching in English - speaking schools, and they did a great job. Maybe the kids are ready. How prepared are the teachers? I think this is an important issue, and teachers need to be prepared and helped. But what else do you think we need to do so that these fears can be removed in society and in this hall and that we can switch to Estonian education in a nice way?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U230	Thank you very much for this question. I admit that my opinion and my knowledge, although I think I am already an experienced person, can be few. I hope colleagues will forgive me if I bring such a slightly more complex note into this presentation. My colleague Urve Tiidus and I have formed a group such as my group, which means that we have promised not to talk about our feelings and what I think. I am currently ignoring this and thinking about my teacher's experience at the Estonian Academy of Arts, where we looked forward to receiving students with other native languages who came from a gymnasium with exceptionally poor Estonian language skills. Remember when more than 60 to 40 curricula were taken. Coming into this environment, they brought in their passions, their different senses. The designs of these students were quite different; they were very welcome to our environment. In this sense, I may even find it difficult to put myself in this situation because there is some fear and we have to ask what we should do. But I do not think that this is definitely a matter for me or one person or one group. I'd rather not have so many fears today. I'm sorry, but I have to say that I have met this incitement by certain politicians. And it seems to me that today, in 2020, it is extremely irresponsible. The opinion that if we keep young people away from the Estonian language, or the opinion that if we keep different communities away from each other, then it is an ideal and noble Estonian state, no päde. I really think it's not a crook, and my experience in life tells me the opposite.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U231	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U232	Thank you. Russian-language school teachers are not prepared in Estonia. Teacher education is already uniform. If I'm wrong, correct me. The quality of the education of students in our Russian schools is worse than that of children in Estonian, as shown by our results and studies. What we want with the bill is to give all children equal opportunities to cope in society. But I'm coming to Helle-Moonika Helme's address, which he sent yesterday to all kindergartens. There's a lie crossed out there. Amendments to this draft decision could be tabled if they were made in time. But the second: if you do not want Estonian children to be russified under the leadership of the Reform Party, share that information so that it reaches as many as possible. That's the end of that letter he sent. Please reject these claims that we are Russing Estonian children!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U233	Thank you very much. First of all, I must gather myself, because I am not familiar with this call and I do not want to be. Was the question that we would be Russing Estonian children or that we would be pro-Russian children? Russing Estonian children? It's easy to say I can't. I just can't, because there was a chance, I think, in the youth of many of us. In the youth of many of us, this opportunity existed; in the youth of our parents, it was an opportunity, and it was a coercion. But they remained Estonians. In 1964, students who had an educational innovation each year, and not only pupils, even teachers, entered the school. Renewed with a direction towards reducing the hours of Estonian language. I believe that I am not wrong that in primary school or perhaps in fifth or sixth grade Tallinn schools, probably in other Estonian schools, there were fewer hours of native language and literature than in Russian. I am not saying this now with the emphasis that Russian language and literature are somehow bad. But I will answer the question of what was the danger in our parents' lives and youth of losing their identity in our own lives, but it was not born. I see no reason for it to change today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U234	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U235	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, What I suppose the questioner pointed out before me is indeed one thing you could try to explain. In these places, where Estonian children, Estonian-language children are mostly present, you can still imagine the way in which these few Russian-speaking children would be distributed among Estonian-language classes and everyone would study in Estonian. The question, which probably has encouraged a fellow Member to write propaganda letters, is what happens in those places where Russian-language children are in the majority and Estonian-language children are outnumbered. How, then, do you imagine this common educational model? What attitude could the majority of parents with Estonian native language have towards such educational arrangements?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U236	Thank you very much. I'll try to explain as you asked. But I'm sorry, I'm gonna turn around and I'm gonna blow my nose a little bit. May I? It's an allergic cold. I think you're much more competent on these matters than I am. I dare say once again that the draft decision is not intended to offer solutions to all problems in this Chamber of the Riigikogu today. In my presentation, I also pointed out the principle that in certain areas of Estonia where people with Estonian native language are outnumbered, different models must be launched. By the way, this was also emphasised by Mart Rannut two years ago, probably you were here in the hall, that we also see differences within this objective. This has been emphasised by universities and they have also stressed that they are fully prepared to come and contribute. There was another question that I really wanted to answer. Ah! But isn't it nice that even in those regions where more Russian is spoken today and it will continue to sound, because if the family's native language is Russian, no one thinks that this single draft of Estonian-language education commands the use of Estonian anywhere in communication with one another, the Estonian-language communication will expand? I think it is. I don't think you got the full answer right now and some project from Signe Kivi. But I am reminded that on 9 November, when an inquiry to the Minister of Education, Mailis Reps, was about us in this hall, you and my good colleague, Katri Raik, also gave a speech. I wrote it down because it was a very positive surprise. Katri is an ardent supporter of Estonian early childhood education. Katri said: it is difficult, but we must convince the local authorities. He knows what is happening in local governments, especially in Ida-Virumaa. They must be convinced that this is the right way, and a decision must be taken and deadlines must be set. I'll find it right away. If I'm wrong, it's very bad, but I'm sure Katri will fix me because I named her name.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U237	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U238	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I will continue this final discussion. In Estonian-language schools in Ida-Virumaa, more and more children are studying alongside Estonians for ten years from families that speak Russian and sometimes only Russian. In these classes there are not one or two Russian-speaking children next to Estonians, but often half the class or even more. However, these children have managed, yet the results of these schools have generally been better than the Estonian average when we look at the results of the state examinations. Have you heard of cases or widespread cases during your preparatory work, that Estonian children from such schools would have forgotten the Estonian language, acquired Estonian poorly and learned Russian children would hate the Estonian state or take a very bad view of it, or that they have failed in life and education?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U239	Thank you very much for the substantial question. I hope no one is disappointed, especially the questioner. I haven't heard.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U240	Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U241	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I also had the privilege of going to school in 1964, and I cannot say that we would have had more Russification in school than my grandchildren do now. In the second grade, we started studying Russian and the third was studying German, but Estonian language and literature were predominant. But now we have a situation where in Mustamäe Estonian-language kindergarten the director tells the teacher to speak the simplified Estonian language in the Estonian group of children aged 5 to 6 so that too many foreigners taken by the group can understand. In an environment of such communication, do you think it is possible to prepare Estonian children for school so that they can be educated at an advanced level?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U242	Thank you very much. I understand where this question is going, but I am really trying to be sympathetic and respectful. I haven't heard that conversation. I'm sure there are such conversations. But do we have to be so worried? You're still trying to speak simplified language with a little kid. Is it that bad? I don't know. When it gets overwhelming in kindergarten parents, there's a problem. But look, today is the problem. I have stressed this repeatedly, and in the draft we have also pointed out that today, in fact, there is perhaps a problem. If we close our eyes to this problem, if we do not support these schools, where Estonian students, Estonian students, teachers and teachers need support, then this problem will remain. I reminded you now, waiting for the question, that last year before the budget procedure we received a letter from the heads of Estonian-speaking schools in Ida-Virumaa with an overview of how many students with Estonian language study in one school or another and how many other, mainly Russian-language students. And how do you say that? Now we have to say, depending on the starting point or the world view: this percentage is high, and it is the children of other-language families in Estonian schools that are growing. The letter was sent to support these schools to take help teachers who would help both Estonian-speaking students and Russian-speaking students. This letter was overlooked and this support was not accepted by the Riigikogu during the budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U243	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U244	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! You noted here earlier that Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Education, took steps to bring education in Estonian to all schools. Please enlighten us on the concrete steps that have been taken. In what activities did they manifest themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U245	Thank you. I don't think you're gonna be satisfied with my answer, but I suppose these were the day-to-day steps of the Minister of Education that supported his wish. I think that no one is questioning the fact that we know his activities in the Riigikogu for the sake of a transition to a common Estonian-language education. I didn't make a list, and I'm gonna say it honestly, not ironically at all. But when we met and I asked, he said that he [acted] every day a little bit at a time and almost had one or another important thing to do. And then came Maris, who stepped even closer to it. But again. How do I stop now? This is not something I would like to throw at the members of the Riigikogu in any way, but it was a finding that came from talking to them. I knew that the question of how it was said that you were in the government, and you had ministers for education, would certainly come. I think we will find out about these concrete steps after this draft is closed, either today or tomorrow or next week.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U246	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U247	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Thank you, Signe, you have resisted very bravely! You have a very good analysis in your report, you've done a lot of work for it. Is there something you want to say in the end? I hope my question is final and you can sum up your report nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U248	Thank you very much. As you know, the Reform Party, and not just the Reform Party, has come up with similar drafts several times. When the group and the leader of the group, Kaja Kallas, proposed this to me, I took time to think, because it is not a secret that I am not a professional in this area. I have taught students at the Academy of Arts, but they have been practical composition lessons, and this teaching method is quite different than in kindergarten or general school. I took some time to think, and I said yes. I realized that the fact that I'm not a professional may be a certain plus, because maybe I can look at this goal more side by side, not see immediate problems. In fact, if you're very involved in your field, you'll see obstacles and try to say "no" rather than "yes" or how to do it differently. So what I'm saying is, I've been working on preparing this bill from the heart. I believe in this, I am an Estonian patriot, I have dealt with the issue of our nation well with national textiles, I have been a member of the Estonian Congress and I am proud of it. Thank you to everyone who asked me today and maybe ask again! And I believe that we will achieve this goal together. Why not today?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U249	There are still questions. Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U250	Good President! Good Signe! I didn't want to take away this conclusion, to add something else to the beautiful conclusion, but I still ask you to argue against this accusation, which obviously can be quite simply said from here. Where is the real agenda? Is it not the case that we change the names of Russian-language kindergartens, for example, which are now the Sad Krasnaja Shapotška of Detski, then kindergarten is the Red Riding Hood and the reform is done? Why is there no specific action plan? Where are the concrete steps to be taken? We know that relatively formal changes have been made in one of our neighbouring countries, and that progress has also been made, I mean Latvia, but still. How would you argue that this is not just a bill for changing labels?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U251	Thank you very much. I have also referred to the fact that the draft decision brought before the Riigikogu does not need to be included, although, of course, there may be different action plans. But I'm pretty sure that editing in this way is even more vulnerable and capable of criticism. The draft decision imposes an obligation on the Government of the Republic, which has the capacity to carry out this objective if it has the will to do so. And that's why I believe my answer will not satisfy you. But yes, if the Riigikogu has to come up with a different draft, which has several different solutions, the deadline for amendments and different readings, then I also think that there should be options, or at least the group that brings such a draft to the Riigikogu hall should also describe the action plans, why not also financially. In principle, these plans exist somewhere in the 'back pocket', and the group is certainly ready for this. But today it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U252	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U253	I'm interested in this situation. If there is a school of convergence and Estonian and Russian children begin to study together, what will happen to those Russian school teachers who have completed education in, for example, St Petersburg, Pihkva or elsewhere and who have relatively little to do with this education? Can we imagine that they will teach Estonian children? How does all this work out?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U254	Thank you very much for this question. First of all, I specify that there are different initiatives along the way of education in Estonian. One of them is a school of convergence. Our draft is a single draft of education in Estonian. With regard to the problem that has been raised in your question, that in our kindergartens and schools, people who have been educated elsewhere are currently teaching, yes, that is the problem, that is the problem of our country. It is immediately remembered that about six months ago there was a joint meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Culture, where we discussed teaching history in Estonian schools, and the rapporteurs clearly pointed out the incredible fact that not all Estonian schools teach Estonian history, but use the teaching materials of another country and shape the mindset of another country in their students. It's a very big problem. But this problem, I repeat myself again, is today so perhaps, and it is not a problem of a common Estonian-language education system. I think I kind of answered that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U255	Thank you. The questions you have asked have been exhausted. Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Aadu Black, the chairman of the committee, as a rapporteur for this committee. I ask the members of the Riigikogu who wish to ask questions to the co-rapporteur to register again as a questioner.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U256	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Riigikogu on Tuesday 17 November 2020. The members of the committee were Mart Helme Helle-Moonika Helme as an alternate member, Jaak Juske as an alternate member of Katri Raig, Signe Kivi, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Natalia Malleus Mikhail Stalnukhin, Heidy Purga, Jaak Valge, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, Marko Šorin and Aadu Must, as well as the Secretariat of the Commission. There was a very long record of this meeting, with eight pages of close text. However, I cannot talk for very long because the oppressive part of this protocol is occupied by the presence of Signe Stone, which was also very long and thorough, and the ensuing discussion. Well, what are you gonna do as a performer if you have to admit that the oppressive part of the topics and the sub-topics and the points that went through the committee has been going through the hall today? However, I will try at least a little to personalize this committee meeting. It is important to stress that the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Education and Research Kristi Nemvalts-Vinter was present, whose task was to present the positions of the Ministry. In fact, the enjoyable fierce discussion that sometimes interests in politics did not develop because the direction, to be acknowledged, was synchronised. There were problems, either in Estonian or in Estonian, there were different methods that should be used. And if, at the time of the performance, I was trying to pluck out whether there was a moment that Signe didn't already say anything, please, not to be offended, I didn't mean to say it maliciously, maybe some things were. The regional dimension also came first. Mart Helme said that the practical difficulty is that, unfortunately, Estonia cannot be dealt with in a completely single key. He compared, for example, the launch of Estonian-language education in Sillamäe with another Estonian region. Different methods of learning and their advantages also came up, which are not directly relevant to the content of this draft, but our Committee on Culture has repeatedly discussed related issues. Jaak Juske pointed out that as a possible transition model, the Social Democrats have proposed a co-educating school where young people in Estonian and Russian would study in one school. Jaak Valge also stressed what the results of the PISA test show, how with different native or home languages • it is a very good term for students to have PISA results different. Natalia Malleus also raised the lack of teachers and showed that this was one of the key issues. Fragmentally or endlessly, we came to the content of the substances. For example, the question of historical education, which has already been highlighted here, of how it has been dealt with in schools with different languages so far, also reached the table. That, however, was long enough to talk about it. But indeed, I see that Aadu Must has also spoken there and has been very pleased that our teachers from the University of Tartu and Tallinn teach very well not only the history of Estonia but also the history of Russia, without any excessive emotions, teach understanding. There are certainly issues on which I would like to speak further right away, to have a say, but I have a role to play as a representative of the Commission. In this way, it can be resounding that the draft deals with the area of the cultural committee, which has been said a lot and a lot about different topics, not specifically. I mean, from a specific bill, everything we've been talking about came to us and only a fragmentarium remained. Apparently, I have to finish on this spot, because why start talking about what was already being said in detail, emphatically. And as chairman of the committee, I am not going to talk about what I was thinking or what anyone was thinking next to me, which you will probably hear in the speeches of the representatives of the political groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U257	Thank you very much, dear waitress. You have questions too. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U258	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Did you also discuss in the Commission that, once again, if we decide that we as a country do not set ourselves the goal of moving to a single Estonian-language early childhood education and general education, how do we support these Estonian-language schools and kindergartens, where more and more children come from other languages at the request of parents? Did you discuss this in the Committee on Culture and if you did not discuss it, would you please discuss it in the future? This is actually a major problem in Ida-Virumaa and Valgamaa, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U259	We did not discuss this aspect within the framework of this draft. We have discussed this several times before on a number of issues, and we will also discuss it in the future, because this issue cannot be overcome or changed. And I have a lot of vivid memories of earlier discussions, but I'm gonna hit myself on the finger, and I'm gonna say don't start talking to memoirs. In particular, this debate did not raise this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U260	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U261	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Chairman of the Committee on Culture, In your review, there was one such sentence that the Commission's debate was synchronised. Can it be concluded from this sentence that the soil to give this draft decision a green path is present in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U262	This is again an attempt to put those words in my mouth that I cannot say in the Commission's debate. 'Sync' meant that a lot of educational policy views are amazingly similar to those of the political groups, but there is no lack of 'a competitive procedure'. It turns out that, just as there is a lawyer and a prosecutor in court, there is always a certain rivalry in the coalition or different parties, even if they move in sync. But we did not draw any conclusions as to whether the vote would be in favour or against.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U263	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U264	Thank you very much. Good waitress! I am now asking from this angle that I previously praised Signe for having a very good speech text, which is good to support. And when I read the title of this decision, it is also very good to support it, but the decision itself is completely incomprehensible to me. I have to stress that again. Did you discuss this issue in the Commission that this draft decision states that the transition to a single pre-school education has been organised by 2024? What's "organized" mean? I can't get an answer to that either from the explanatory statement. What does this arrangement mean? What is meant by this arrangement?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U265	I can repeat what's in the text. That's how we read it. This is the target of a specific draft. What content is given to it? It is also defined in many respects in the explanatory memorandum, which is an integral part of the draft. If this decision to carry out the task is taken to the Government of the Republic, then the nuances contained in the explanatory memorandum must also be taken into account. You can't take the real ceiling. And that's all I have to add. If I go one step out... Or I'm sorry! I'm not going out one step.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U266	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U267	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm a little sorry. Listening to what you were saying, I did not understand whether you had a decision in the committee and what opinions were expressed. There could be something in the Commission's decision. Or it was true that only Signe Kivi spoke and the ministry officials spoke. You didn't tell me what they said. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U268	According to the rules, making a proposal to the Government of the Republic means voting to send this bill to the hall and making a decision. [[They say something in the hall.]] Got it. The Ministry spoke of what has been done in the same direction or for the same development in the ministry all along the way. A number of steps have been made so far and it has been said how important it is for us to discuss now and then in the development plans to be presented to us, where many things are also expected to be done. This was the main content of Kristi Nemvalts-Vinter's performance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U269	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U270	Thank you. Our constitution gives ethnic minorities collective rights, including the protection of their language and the opportunity to become a school in their own language. Unfortunately, this bill ignores these collective rights and the real problems of teaching the Estonian language, the lack of teachers and teaching materials and the need to increase the quality of the Russian-language school is trying to solve the problem by prohibiting Russian in the Estonian public school system. In the discussions in the Commission, did anyone also express this view, which I consider very right and important, that no matter what educational reform we are discussing regarding the quality or development of education for our largest ethnic minority, we should start with a promise: until there are Russian-speaking families in Estonia who want their children to study in Russian-speaking schools, so far this right is guaranteed for them?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U271	Indeed, both the draft explanatory memorandum and the answers to the questions mentioned that the draft certainly provides that Russian children have the right, the need and even the normal course of learning Russian and Russian cultural history. And this was highlighted in the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U272	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions for you. It is now possible to open negotiations, with representatives of political groups and committees speaking in the negotiations. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U273	Okay. For the sake of sounding better, I don't have a bank jacket in front of me. So please don't complain about me, as it has become a good habit here, that politicians are complaining about each other about what kind of person he is. But listening to this discussion, which has been rolling here for a long time, several hours, and listening to the honourable waitress I mean, Mrs Signe Kivi, said that the Reform Party Education Ministers almost succeeded, I remembered one anecdote. It's politically incorrect, and the Sots say, of course, that now I am humiliating and insulting the Gypsies, but I remember the gypsy saying that the horse almost learned how to starve, but one day before he died. I felt exactly the same way that reform parties almost made this transition to education in Estonian, but one day earlier you had to resign and never succeeded. Well, it's kind of a funny thing about that, isn't it? If I look at this bill, I'd say the goal is very sympathetic. But if I go into the substance of this draft, I will say that, unfortunately, in this form, I cannot support it. By the way, there is no such thing as an education in Estonian. Education is education, whatever language you have acquired it, whether in English, Russian, German, Chinese. There are Estonian-language studies, Estonian-language schools, but not Estonian-language education. Education is a much broader concept. It's a little bit of a stellar gig. So if you're going to put forward the next draft, maybe you're going to take this stellar thing into account. What's the problem? The problem is, shooting a hip like this is gonna do more harm than good. He is causing damage because, above all, what we are seeing going on in Estonia today, I think I have mentioned it once in this remote control, is basically Russian-speaking people, we do not have politically correct assimilation of the Russians, say, about 70% of the territory of the Republic of Estonia. Because there are not enough Russians to form viable communities that can support schools and fill them with enough students after a year. It just isn't. Plus the fact that a lot of Russians have taken a completely pragmatic view that it is useful for the future of these children if they study in Estonian schools, blend in, indeed, in this school education and among Estonian students and teachers, they become entirely their own people. So much for their names being Konstantin Ivanov or some other non-Estonian name, but everyone takes them as Kostya, everyone takes them as Genka, everyone takes them as Vankas, and they're their own. But where the Russian population is in numerous, hundreds of thousands, practically in its own language environment, it is not possible to do such a convergence school there. And what do we achieve? We will achieve that few Estonians from these regions who are there will leave. They're just going away. Because the Estonian is such a... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U274	There's an extra time, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U275	The Estonian is simply that he goes out of the way if he does not feel that he has the pragmatic hope of remaining on board. We can't get teachers in these schools. Reform Party, respectable! You were just here in great trouble that we didn't have a teacher's follow-up. And now you're going to put this aftergrowth under attack by saying, "Let's all slumber together." Do you know what the buzzard was? Perhaps the respected deputy speaker remembers that when we poured all the bottles together in a bowl during college, it was a buzzard. Now you want to make a buzzer, too, but this buzzard comes with a very disgusting taste and the components don't add up. Teachers don't go to schools like this either. And that's an additional problem. I don't want to mock this bill in any way, so I'm asking you to understand me correctly in this sense. I will make a completely constructive criticism, pointing out the problems that will inevitably come about in practical life in connection with this draft. That is why I say that we do not need any revolution. Let's move on to evolution. The current government has taken long steps here and we have allocated quite a large amount of money in the budget to prepare Estonian language teachers for Russian schools. We are also expanding the teaching of Estonian in kindergartens. It is planned that this budget's money should extend to 50 more kindergartens in Estonian, where it is not yet available. They are scattered all over Estonia, mainly in Northern Estonia. And I have to say here now that this bill, which Mrs Kivi has just defended, basically means that in many places in Northern Estonia we are hit by high-quality Estonian-language education. And, finally, I just want to say that we don't just have to speak the language. We also need to talk about the quality of education, and I would say that in this sense we are not actually in the best position in Estonia. The quality of education has actually deteriorated during the period of Estonia's independence, because there has been so much twitching in the field of education that it has been destabilising and, rather than profiting. So we have a lot of real problems that need to be resolved, and before these problems are resolved, or if the process of reaching these solutions has not begun, we cannot accept the kind of revolutionary step that the Reform Party is currently proposing as sympathetic as this objective is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U276	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U277	Ladies and gentlemen, Again, we have had to listen in this Chamber how one of the parties wishes to deprive Estonia's largest national minority of the rights guaranteed by our constitution to this national minority. Our Constitution really protects the Estonian language and protects it very well. Ensures that all people who want to receive instruction in Estonian. By the way, this may not be the case in our universities today, so we could really do something about it. But until high school, it's pretty well guaranteed. But our constitution does not forget that there are people living in Estonia whose native language is not Estonian, but they are also ours. And therefore, the Constitution provides for a very wide range of different points that protect the right of ethnic minorities to their own language and the use of that language, especially in areas where the majority of the users of a minority language are the majority. Once again, this is the country of all of us. The Constitution says that parents have, above all, and the greatest right to decide on the education of children. The Constitution says that a language can be chosen by an educational institution in a minority education institution. And that makes sense. Especially in a situation where we have about 30% of the population whose native language is Russian since 1991. No one doubts that a person who speaks Estonian will come out of the Estonian school system. Unfortunately, the long reign of the Reform Party has not helped us to have teachers or to have teaching materials. Right now, this thing is getting fixed. But the question really is not whether Estonian should be studied. Of course you do. The question is that some people think that we in this Parliament or the government should tell teachers what the best way to teach this language is by saying that we are not interested in some kind of education, that we are not interested in knowing a local area at all, we are telling you how you must guarantee it. That's absurd. Why don't we just forget it, leave this stupid populism behind in the last century, say: we have some Russians here who talk and think! They study in Russian. It's totally terrible, how could that be? Why don't we just cut it out? Why don't I say that as long as we have Russian families who want their children to be educated in Russian, we will guarantee it and ensure that it is an excellent education, that it is the best Russian education that can be obtained in the first place? That should be our goal: to guarantee every person who is born in this country the best possible education for every one of us that he wants and is able to acquire. Let's put an end to the language wars! Leave those decisions to the teachers! Let the teachers decide whether it is best for their school, their region, their children to bathe, to make mixed schools of different nationalities, to have separate schools with a language of instruction. It doesn't have to be the decision we make here. This decision that we are making here can be what the content of the curriculum is, and, of course, that the Estonian language can be understood. But the methods are prescribed by you know, it is the misuse of Estonian, my beautiful native language, a nasty misuse. It's about making Estonian into a malak and saying that if it's not your native language, then you're still not it. I am embarrassed to our Russian-speaking compatriots that I must again be here and say that our Russian-speaking compatriots are just as Estonian people as everyone else is. Let's stop bullying them on the basis of their native language! Of course, the Centre Party does not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U278	Katri Raik, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U279	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, It is good that the issue of education in Estonian is back on the table. I do not recall for the first time from this speech chair that no such decision concerning Estonian Russian-speaking schools has been taken since 2007. It was then decided to teach 60% of compulsory subjects in Estonian at upper secondary school. This is not a success story, because only 60.2% of those who have completed secondary education will pass the mid-level Estonian language exam. That's very little, two out of three. Of course, there are also graduates of vocational education, but the service provider or locksmith must know the Estonian language. When I saw the Eurostat survey this spring, which told our students whether they were going to work or not during their studies, there were statistics that really worried me. After all, friends, we are talking about that our Russian-speaking young people should be as good as Estonians to live in Estonia so that they can study at the university. Universities are mostly Estonian-speaking. In comprehensive school, 20% of young people study in Russian, but if we look at the whole spectrum of the university's first degree, i.e. applied higher education and undergraduate studies, there are 15% of Russian-language primary school graduates ♪ less than in primary school. But in a master's degree, good people, they're 7%. 20% of them go to primary school, but only one in three gets to graduate school. Therefore, something must be done, it is absolutely clear. Kindergarten is the right place for change. 2017 was the last integration survey in Estonia, where nearly 80% of both Estonian and Russian parents said that education in Estonian and education in Estonian should start in kindergarten. We'll never achieve 100 percent, but it's a very good starting position. However, it has also sounded in this Chamber today that we need a real real plan more real than the current plan is. Let me create a picture with a very wide brush, not a mosaic, as is now our editing with Russian-speaking schools. We make three types of kindergartens in Estonia, we do it in five years. There is an Estonian-language kindergarten, there is a partial immersion where, from the third year onwards, the activity takes place in two languages in parallel, and a late immersion, where two years before school, only in Estonian is taught. Let's make sure that in the first and second grades, students learn separately if their language level is not equal. We're going to go to a school together and leave it alone in Ida-Virumaa once and for all. There has been talk about Kohtla-Järve Upper Secondary School, a single upper secondary school where both Estonian and Russian young people attend the second year. What do we want? It's only the second year! It's going to be complicated, but it's going to be. It is possible to study at one school. We apply for Estonian and Russian young people to go to university together, be friends at the university, be in the same student organisations. I, for example, have been with people from different political parties in my time in student organisations, and it also unites us today, even though we are in different political parties. I would really like such social cohesion for our Russian young people. Yes, it has also been said today that Russian must also be taught as a native language, and Estonian independence will not end when, for example, ten schools will teach some subjects in Russian in ten years' time. There are different opinions among the Socialists on this draft, as well as the different decisions taken today in the vote. I would like a realistic plan, which is a negotiated plan. I believe it can be created. After listening to today's long discussion, I would like to say that if the Estonian Conservative People's Party, the Fatherland and the Reform Party could work together to think through the programme of Estonian-language learning, it should receive 65 votes of support from this hall. As long as such cooperation does not take place, different views remain. Once again, the position of the Socialists is a picture instead of a mosaic, a clearer agenda, a realistic agenda for the future. Because it is always the custom of a good colleague, Mart Helme, to turn... I'm gonna ask for an extra minute, because I'm gonna have to go to Mr. Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U280	One extra minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U281	Since it is usually the custom of a good colleague, Mart Helm, to turn to the Social Democrats, then, good Mart, I respect you very much. You're a smart man. You yourself do not believe that the current government has done everything possible to ensure that Estonian-language education in Estonian schools progresses. No, it's not! The money you're talking about is for adult learning. Very good! But in kindergarten another kindergarten teacher, who often doesn't have an education and who often doesn't speak enough Estonian, sometimes does bad things in that kindergarten, not good things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U282	Priit Sibul, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland Party, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U283	Thank you. I agree with the previous speaker that it is very good that this issue is on the agenda today. In particular, I would like to thank the rapporteur for this topic in this large hall, Signe Kivi. If this draft were as broad and as thorough as his approach was, then, I think, in this Chamber today's vote, the result would be quite different. But the draft is very narrow and basically one point, just as Katri referred to. The aim is to have a common and absolute view of both the programmed and the electoral programme of the Fatherland. But I think it would be reasonable for political parties to propose their own comprehensive solution to discuss this issue, rather than assigning tasks from the Riigikogu to the government at some point. I think it is quite clear that no major and huge leap can be achieved before the next parliamentary period, because budgetary resources are planned when we look at the RES. And all these steps require a certain amount of time, which the previous speakers have already spoken about very rightly here. Last autumn, the Riigikogu already gave the government the task of proposing to strengthen the vitality, development and learning of the Estonian language, and the government has sent a number of development plans along the way. Some people don't like that they're too general. However, the development plans, such as the Estonian language development plan, state that Estonian-language school education is mostly passed on to Estonian-language school education, i.e. that teaching takes place in Estonian-language schools and kindergartens funded by the state and local authorities. Estonian-language school education guarantees the integration of children and young people into the Estonian cultural and value area and gives everyone an equal opportunity to participate in social and professional life and to continue their studies at the next level of education. In the development plan for education, we also need to make a very concrete proposal from this Parliament so that it is clear to everyone that the Estonian education system must be in Estonian in the future. Now for the specific bill. I myself support it and it seems sympathetic that we set specific targets, specific years, then it is like things are in order. But it's got two problems. First of all, if we write down here today the government's goal that the [transition] should take place for this year, we might as well be able to change it. As the first questioner of Urmas Kruus, Tõnis quoted Lukas' article, but I don't know if he ran over or missed it. There was one aspect that it was really agreed in the 1999 Patriotic Union, Reform Party and Socialist Government, as Katri pointed out, that the upper secondary school would go to 60:40 systems in 2007. But the Government of the Reform Party and the Centre Party, which was established in 2002, made a correction to the fact that the decision of the local government may make exceptions to the fact that it does not really have to go in this way. So if we put some things in there, we can change them, that's the problem with this virtue. Another thing is that there is one year, for example 2030 in basic education. When we look at it, it's kind of different. I'm from Valga myself. But if I mean in the context of Tartu, Valga and Narva, one date, it's obviously not a bad guy. It seems reasonable to me that every political group, a party, should work out its own plan. We could present it, coordinate it, and I am absolutely convinced that it will be possible to move forward at a much faster pace in the future if we have moved so far or do so today. Of course, as a paternal, I am not satisfied with the pace we have in today's government, nor with what we have done in previous contexts. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U284	Kaja Kallas, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U285	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Please explain to me how it is that there is one thing before the elections, and there is another story after the elections, how it will be highlighted as a special political genius if you forget the promises you made to your voters the next day. Both Mart Helme and Priit Sibul indicated that this plan was very bad, this plan did not fit. But where's your plan? So where's your plan that we're supposed to be doing? Prior to the 2019 elections, one of the main issues was the transition to a common Estonian-language education system. It was on the electoral platform of the Reform Party, the Fatherland and the EKRE. A number of electoral debates were held on this topic, where it was agreed that it should be taken forward, as it is necessary for the preservation of Estonian language, culture and people as well as for the better management of people who speak Russian as their native language in Estonian society. We have tried to convince you of the need for this decision several times, both in this Chamber and in the Commission. That is why I am using your own words to convince you to vote in favour of this bill. Okay. Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits: "The topic of today's important national issue is "The transition of Russian-language kindergartens and schools to Estonian-language learning'. The Isamaa Group has decided to raise this issue as a matter of national importance, because it is nothing less. " And also: " Politicians need to deal with strategic decisions that take society forward. In this case, this decision is a single Estonian-language education system." Sven Sester: "We actually see a parallel society where there are essentially different cultural spaces, social spaces. If we come to economic level, we see today that people living in the Russian information space are not competitive on the labour market because they simply do not speak Estonian." Tõnis Lukas Teachers' Lehes: "The transition to a common Estonian education system from kindergarten to kindergarten is also a priority for Fatherland to contribute to the future of young people with other home languages, to the coherence of society and to the economic progress of Estonia." Jaak in the White Teachers' page in February 2019: "Without doubt, the transition is important and the EKRE wishes to commit it as soon as possible. But the transition, which has been delayed, cannot take place in a campaign process so that students suffer or the quality of education falls. Different measures are appropriate in different regions. Where the Estonian-speaking population dominates, an immediate transition is possible. In Ida-Virumaa, however, you must start with Estonian-language kindergartens, where Russian-language children will learn Estonian enough to go to Estonian-language school. Russian-language children can then continue to study Russian-based Russian-language in either Estonian-language ordinary school or Russian-language school-based in-depth Russian language and culture. " But this is exactly what we propose now, Mr. White, wherever you watch this broadcast! In any case, I hope that Mr White will act in his own words and support this proposal. More of my colleagues' opinions. Helir-Valdor Seeder: "Isamaa has set itself the goal of a transition to full Estonian-language learning." And Mart Helme: A perfectly uniform view is that the education system must go to the Estonian language. We have a very clear vision that we will start with the preparation of teachers, start with kindergartens, raise children into Estonian, and go to Estonian-language school in a few years, when we have teachers, teaching tools and methodologies, to the Estonian language. None of the three partners have any disagreements. Yana Toom may have it, but it's personal. May Russian education be defended in the European Parliament with Tatjana Ždanoka." More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U286	Sure. Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U287	How has it happened that Mart Helme himself is the main defender of the Russian education system? How has it been that the promises made to voters have been forgotten? Today, we are tasking our government with developing this plan and setting specific dates so that no one can frighten Russian-speaking families that the changeover will take place tomorrow, even though they are not ready for it. The transition would be smooth, starting with kindergartens where children are taught only in Estonian, and when they are of school age, there is no reason to go to Russian-speaking school because they speak Estonian at the required level. This development would take place naturally and gradually, quietly, without hurting the Russian-speaking community, but still so that people who do not speak Estonian would not come after them. To Oudekki Loone, what I want to say is that I listen to this story, that when people with Russian language learn Estonian, it is as if they lose their native language and culture. It's not like that. There are 150 million people in the world who speak Russian, have Internet sites in Russian, have television programmes in Russian, have Russian newspapers, etc. 1.1 million people in the world speak Estonian. It is a small language, it must be protected, it is far more prone than a great language to the influence of large languages. There is no threat to Russian language or culture, and no one wants it. But you must speak Estonian in Estonia. I hope you all understand that. Every day we postpone this decision, this problem only gets worse. Let's not postpone this decision. Vote for the transition to a common Estonian-language education system, or rather for the decision that the government should put this particular scheme in place. Let's move on, let's not talk about this anymore! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U288	Oudekki Loone has the right to reply because his name was mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U289	Since my name was mentioned, I would be happy to respond to this appeal. First of all, it is not a question of whether or not you should learn Estonian. No one doubts that they should learn Estonian. Secondly, the question is not whether Russian will disappear from the world. It is a question of the law of our Russian citizens, of our Russian citizens, of the constitutional right to study in their own language schools, to choose the most suitable educational method for their children. This is about the rights of our Russian people, the rights of Estonian Russian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U290	Thank you. Evgeny Ossinovski has no way of saying anything anymore. All right, good friends! But Mart Helme does. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U291	I would, of course, like to thank the representative of the Reform Party Group for its constructive criticism. But we have not forgotten the goals that are in our programme and which we talked about before the elections. In my opinion, in the presentation of our group, I reasoned with sufficient arguments as to why we do not think that the Estonian-language education should now be revolutionised throughout Estonia if we are not prepared enough for this. I have pointed out that the government has allocated money and we intend to move towards our goal in a calm and evolutionary manner. And in order to rely on authority, I would draw attention to one of Winston Churchill's sayings: in order to move towards the North Star, it is not always necessary to go in a straight line.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U292	Thank you very much. The negotiations are over, the lines are over. It is time to get to the vote. There are no amendments to this draft, so we are preparing for the final vote. A majority of the membership is needed in order for this decision to be approved. Let's get ready for the vote! Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision to "Proposal the Government of the Republic to make Estonia's initial and school education uniform and in Estonian" draft 243. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U293	36 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this draft, against 43. The draft was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U294	We will begin the discussion of item 15: The draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act initiated by the Government of the Republic with number 232. Let's start with the second reading. Mr Heljo Pikhofi, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, as rapporteur!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U295	Honourable fellows! I have the honour to present draft 232, which is a draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and concerns rental relationships. We discussed the draft in two meetings of the Commission. One took place on 12 October this year and the other on 24 November this year. I'll start with the October 12th session. First, Minister Raivo Aeg was present and he began a brief presentation of the draft. He said that the rent regulation provided for in Chapter 15 of the Law of Obligations Act has remained unchanged for almost 20 years and market participants have pointed to the need to update it. He stressed that the draft allows market participants to regulate their relations in a slightly more flexible way and that the clarification of the law would allow for more effective implementation of the law. It is desirable to increase the freedom of agreement between the two parties. The wider aim of the draft is to revive and develop the rental market and thus to provide people with a reasonable alternative to home purchases by renting a place of residence. The time explained that the draft would remove the absolute prohibition of contractual penalties for rental contracts, clarify the regulation of late payment and allow more extensive arrangements for transferring the whole building maintenance and improvement costs to tenants. The draft also talks about the deposit and how the lessor and the lessor are subject to enforcement or bankruptcy proceedings. And there were a whole series of other points that he pointed out. In the Commission, the Minister and other officials who had come from the Ministry of Justice were asked that the law in force requires the lessor to give notice six months in advance if he is planning to increase the rent, whether the bill regulates this issue. Officer Kaidi Urgas, who is advisor to the Ministry of Justice, replied that under current law there are two options for raising rent. In the case of fixed-term contracts, during the contractual relationship, the lessor may say that the rent is intended to be increased, for example, for economic reasons. In the case of fixed-term contracts, it is stipulated that the lessor must not be able to take such a decision in his own right, as agreed between the parties. Kaidi Urgas also said under what conditions rent increases are permitted. It is very important that this is known immediately when the lease is concluded. It was asked whether periodic increases in rent could also be made in the case of an open-ended rental contract, which agreed on flat-rate amounts, such as an increase of EUR 50 in 2021, and also in the case of a fixed-term rental agreement. Kaidi Urgas replied that in the case of open-ended contracts, the current law allows for periodic increases in fixed amounts, and this is also possible in the case of fixed-term rental contracts which are more than three years old. The issue was also the problem of tree tenants. A tree tenant is a person who lives on foreign rental premises and does not pay bills. The real owner only gets bills, but he doesn't have the right to enter the surface because the tenant owns the property. Kai Härmand, Deputy Chancellor, replied that the owner has the right to enter the rental space under the law in force. The owner only has to inform the tenant. If he or she cannot get to the rental space, he or she shall have the opportunity to appeal to the court and the court to demand the release of the property and the possibility to enter the possession. Under the initial legal protection procedure, various measures can be required until the tenant is evicted from the rental space. They asked if it had been implemented. Turns out it hasn't been implemented much. There was also the question of paying the deposit. It was asked whether the payment of the deposit was one of the most disciplined measures and whether this draft was rather a draft for the liberalisation or strengthening of the rental relationship. Kai Härmand of the Ministry of Justice replied that it is now possible to ask for up to three months' deposit, but it is customary to ask for one month's deposit. Then there was the question of whether the courts had evicted tree tenants in the case of an action or whether it was a formal possibility. Kai Härmand replied that, as a rule, when the dispute comes to court, the problem is that it needs to be understood whether the contract has ended or not. He said that he had seen such original law enforcement regulations, but there were not many of them and, to his knowledge, such original law enforcement regulations had not affected rental contracts in the dwelling. When the contract is terminated, the regulation is the same, whether it is a rental agreement for a dwelling or a rental agreement for a business space. As an example, if shopping malls use a method that does not pay rent and a rent debt has arisen, then in the morning the security guard will stand in front of the rental area and will not simply let the attendant in until the debt has been paid. And here's what we're talking about. They're gonna put in a pawn right. Kert Kingo asked about § 266 of the Penal Code, which regulates unauthorised intrusion and non-compliance with the departure requirement. In particular, in the event of unlawful intrusion into a building, a space, a vehicle or a bordered area against the holder's will, and of unlawful failure to comply with the requirement to leave it by the holder, penalties shall be imposed. Kert Kingo said that this paragraph was valid and that, with the amendment of the law, the owners of the apartment were not protected from tree tenants, as the owner could be punished in parallel under the Penal Code if he went illegally to his apartment to talk to the tenant or, for example, to check that the electricity bill corresponds to the actual reading. Now from the debate on 24 November. At that time, we had essentially a debate about the fact that the amendments had been tabled and a number of questions were raised in this regard. A number of representatives of organisations had been invited to the meeting of the committee, such as Priidu Pärna, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Owners' Confederation, Tõnis Rüütel and Pille Pettai, Estonian Attorney General Jevgeni Tverdohlebov, Adviser to the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities Tiina Onegav and representative of the Association of Estonian Real Estate Companies Peeter Pärtel. When we reached the debate on the amendments, the Social Democrats proposed that the tenant be allowed to cancel the lease exceptionally if the tenant loses his job and therefore finds himself in a difficult financial situation. Our proposal was that he had the right to cancel the lease on the dwelling by giving notice 30 days in advance. The reason is that, according to the amendment, the draft provides for the loss of the tenant's work as the basis for the extraordinary cancellation of the contract as a valid reason. When we look at other countries of the European Union, Luxembourg, for example, has the right to cancel a rental contract with an early or shorter notice period in case the tenant loses his or her job. It is necessary to lay down a separate provision or a separate basis in the law, since, without the basis laid down in the law, termination may lead to the obligation of the tenant to compensate for the damage. According to the Socialist amendment, therefore, the tenant can cancel the dwelling lease exceptionally due to the loss of work, giving the lessor 30 days' notice. At the same time, this notice period is in the interests of the landlord: he can start looking for a new tenant. The second amendment was also from the Socialists. This concerned § 334, where we wish to delete paragraph 21. It states that, in the case of a lease for a dwelling, the parties may agree, at the time of conclusion of the contract, in a form which is capable of being reproduced in writing, that, after the contract has been terminated, the tenant shall return the dwelling in such a condition that the depreciation or deterioration resulting from the normal use of the contract has been eliminated, or he shall bear the reasonable and necessary costs associated with it. Under this amendment, the deletion of this text allows us to agree on the basis of a rental agreement that the lessor has the right to require the tenants to repair or cover the costs of repairing the dwelling. Ministry official Kristiina Koll explained why the Ministry did not agree to this. It would seem that the rent would be reduced if the obligation arising from the use of the contract was imposed on the tenant. There was an illusion in the Commission that the hope that the rent would be less than that was. The amendment could lead to endless disputes and the complexity would be so detailed to fix the wear of the various parts on the rental premises. Maybe more about what was on the table. There was also the question of whether the new regulation would allow the lessor not to return the deposit to the tenant if the dwelling was not returned in its original form. Kristiina Koll, of the Ministry of Justice, replied that the change concerns the normal wear that occurs when it is used for its purpose. A separate question concerns the damage suffered by the tenant. Under current law, the tenant must also compensate the lessor. Perhaps also about what Priidu Pärna, the representative of the Estonian Owners' Confederation, wanted, which he found in the draft, which needs to be clarified, to be improved. Both the Real Estate Company Association and the Owners' Confederation found that the rental market has changed considerably over the years. The problem of forced tenants has basically been solved and it is time to waive any restrictions in the law. Kristiina Koll of the Ministry of Justice commented that the proposal of the Estonian Owners' Confederation would make the regulation of the rest of the rental contracts largely empty, because absolutely everything could be agreed. Then the Commission was asked whether the Ministry of Justice considered that greater flexibility would lead to more litigation or whether it would reduce the pressure on the courts. Kaidi Urgas replied that any increase in the freedom of contract could, to some extent, result in more disputes. The Ministry of Justice has tried to rule out disputes about the inclusion of defence mechanisms in the draft. Paul Puustusmaa agreed with the Association of Estonian Real Estate Companies who had made a similar proposal. According to Paul Puustusmaa, the rental dwelling is not the tenant's home at the time of the conclusion of the contract and the parties therefore enter into an equal position in the contractual relationship. He too felt that the imperative provisions were not justified. Priidu Pärna of the Estonian Owners' Confederation said that the second proposal of the Estonian Owners' Confederation concerns solving the problem of tenants who refuse to move, or so-called tree tenants. He referred to a law adopted in 2003 by the Riigikogu, according to which it is possible to set up rental committees in local governments. He said, for example, that in Tallinn, such a rental committee works, but not elsewhere. There was a comment in the Commission that it would be very good if we had rent committees, because it is much more difficult to go to court than the rent committee. This would speed up and simplify judicial procedures considerably. The issue was also about contractual penalties and late payment, which, according to the draft, is intended to be incorporated into the new law. There was an argument about that. It was also discussed whether the fine was too high, or whether it was too small to obtain a fine. Now, of what was decided. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 9 December, to propose that the second reading be closed and, when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be taken. Heljo Pikhof was appointed rapporteur for the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U296	Questions. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U297	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, One of the problems of the rental market is the so-called tree tenants. Do you think this bill will provide relief for this problem? I would like to draw attention to this very subject of rental committees. In my opinion, there is every reason to oblige the rent committees to be set up from a certain number of residents in the municipality. In my opinion, that would actually be an important relief. It is certainly problematic for many to go to court, and it is much more humane and easier to go to the Committee on Rent. What were the objections as to why making rental committees mandatory from a certain number of residents was not considered justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U298	I'll try to find this place. I remember you asking that. Now, can I find this place right here... In fact, this bill will in no way alleviate the problem of tree tenants for landlords. I'll see where it was... Tree tenants, that's the second protocol. The protocol mainly contains the opinions of Priidu Pärna, but the Cities and Municipalities Association is of the opinion that making the rental committees mandatory cannot be supported, as it must be taken into account that local governments should have the necessary resources to do so. The question would be the transfer of resources to the municipality, which will have to deal with disputes between private individuals. The Association of Cities and Municipalities does not believe that rental committees should become mandatory. There have been proposals from Tallinn to improve the work of the rental committee. The problem is that the decision on the settlement of rental disputes takes effect from the date of receipt of the decision and, if the person does not challenge it within 20 days, the decision has also entered into force in practice. In practice, there is a problem with people avoiding a decision. A proposal from Tallinn has been made to consider the decision to be served on the party to proceedings by publication of the decision of the rental committee, which entered into force, on 30 calendar days after the publication of the notice. And then the argument went on about how this should be reported in Official Announcements.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U299	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U300	Thank you. Good waitress! This bill is very prone to owners. It's almost forgotten that a tenant has a right to a home. Our laws should also effectively protect his right to home. Here the tenant is practically left with the right to cancel the lease. This means that a person basically has to move to the street, while the owner's only harm is that he may not benefit from his property. In principle, all risks associated with the lease-out of property are placed on the lessee, which is very unfortunate. On the other hand, rent may be increased, for example, on the grounds that property prices in the surrounding area are rising. However, the tenant does not have the right to demand a reduction in rent if these prices are to fall. That's not equal. With regard to these problems, I have the question: which tenants' interests have the Commission listened to? Which tenants' organisations were asked to give an opinion on this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U301	I hope I'm not mistaken, but we got a little letter from the tenants' representatives. If the Members of the Commission remember that there was some big letter, it was not really there. In fact, the tenants are unfortunately not very organized. In that sense, their situation is sad. But I agree with you that if we look at what gets better for the tenant, so that his confidence gets better, then perhaps it is only that, when agreements are made, these agreements must still be in the form that is reproduced in writing. This requirement applies. And also depositing the deposit: this means that it is separated from the landlord's bankruptcy property in case the lessor goes bankrupt in some way. And there's a cap on late payment. And then there is the change that half the year will be a year: if a fixed-term rental contract is concluded and it is written that there is an opportunity to raise the rent, today it is possible to do so once every six months, but once a year in the future. These are points that are useful to the tenant. But really, I agree with you. All of this is that you have to repair an apartment or that people who lose their job are not entitled to terminate the rental contract early or, in the case of a fixed-term contract, to give notice of the termination of 30 days in advance, just as Luxembourg and other Member States of the European Union do, not all of them, of course, but in some parts of this, the tenant goes to carry a lot of things. Or is it just a lot of things that some things get better for the tenant, but some things get worse.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U302	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U303	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I'm listening to your story here, your explanation of the rent regulation, and I'm looking at this picture a little bit more generally. Study now whether you also discussed in the Commission the broader view that in the Law of Obligations Act, rental relationships may be not just complicatedly regulated, but already overregulated. Overregulation can actually be very damaging to both sides. How do you feel? Did you discuss in the Commission that rental relationships should actually be regulated more easily? At present, it seems that in the event of problems, rental relationships are more part of lawyers', lawyers' bread than normal regular communication.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U304	You can say that one way or the other. Actually, we didn't discuss it directly, but there must be some boundaries. At the moment, even with late payment, things have come to court, for example when 84% of interest has been accrued in a year. That's something the debtor can still pay. Here, for example, is the amendment that the statutory rate of late payment must not be higher than, for example, eight decimal points, whatever percentage per month. Right now, it could be higher. If there weren't these imperative rules, then, well, I don't know how to give examples, but maybe every month's rent could be increased if the law didn't make it more precise that it could be done once a year if it was a fixed-term rental contract. This can be done, for example, if the average rent for this residential area or, let's say, housing with a similar location and condition is on the rise or if the lessor has incurred expenses if he or she has any special expenses associated with the dwelling. Rent increases may be necessary for reasonable corrections and other changes. These are the conditions under which rent can be increased, of course, by giving notice to the tenant. And the tenant has a time limit within which he must say, if he does not agree to an increase in the rent under these new conditions. These are some examples if there were no restrictions. Then we wouldn't know what would happen to these contracts. I think that, yes, maybe there could be less of these restrictions for some things, but there can be no restrictions at the same time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U305	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U306	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I consider it important to say to the tenants that, in fact, the debt law is very strongly inclined towards tenants. It is a separate story, if the tenants do not know their rights, but if you read this law, then indeed, it is very strongly inclined in favour of the tenants, and there will be no paradigm change with the draft we are discussing here today. I want to make one more comment. I am very pleased that you have said that the Cities Association did not support the setting up of rent committees. For me, it's extremely surprising, extremely amazing. This rental committee is working in Tallinn, and I dare not say the amount necessary for this, but it was not at all a large amount...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U307	It was 50,000.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U308	If the rent committee in Tallinn has only needed 50000, then say that money is the reason why other municipalities cannot do the rental committee to meet both tenants and landlords so that they do not have to go to court. It is incomprehensible. But what is your position? Could and should rent committees be mandatory for municipalities of a certain size?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U309	Yes, we had this limit during the debate in the Commission, which I think was 25 000 inhabitants, so that, in such places, the rent committees should definitely be compulsory. In any case, I support it. For example, if the tenant has done something wrong, for example, he has taken the dog or the cat, even though the rental agreement has agreed not to take it. Yeah, in any case, that would solve it. And the same applies to the tenant: if the lessor does anything questionable, it is also possible to appeal to this committee. In any case, it's necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U310	Oudekki Loone, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U311	Thank you. I would like to comment, on the one hand, on the fact that the owner and tenant are not, of course, equal in relation to the rental relationship. One has the right to a home and the other has the opportunity to make a profit on his property. These are not equal situations, and in this sense it is very, very important that the state protects the weaker side and brings people to an essentially equal level, making sure that the tenant is not harmed. But my question is on a slightly wider subject. In Estonia it is very clear that the problem is that large real estate companies somehow do not develop affordable rental houses. In fact, the availability of rental premises is low. It is also very difficult to estimate how many people live on rental premises, how much the state tax is paid and how much it is not paid. If you had representatives of real estate companies there, did we also discuss why Estonia has developed a situation where the development of rental houses is not profitable for some reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U312	Thank you. I do not know exactly why the development of rental homes is not profitable. But I remember our former partymate, Urve Palo, was very busy working on the rental houses. This project has gone on, too, I don't know how far it's come. But how many tenants are there in Estonia? There are 15¢20% of households, and this means that there are 90000• 120000 people living on rental premises. That is not enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U313	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. It is possible to open negotiations. There is no wish to participate in the negotiations. Let's consider the negotiations to be over. We need to revise the amendments. Heljo Pikhof, call, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U314	Thank you. I was so hoping Oudek's gonna give a speech, but look, I didn't give a speech. All I can tell you and congratulate you is that it is. But maybe a little bit of what might still be in this bill, which is kind of missing. If we look at this bill, indeed, there are some provisions that are for the protection of the tenant, and some paragraphs are more clearly worded to make it easier to understand what is written there. When the bill was being discussed, different courts were also asked for opinions. For example, according to Tallinn Circuit Court, the draft, which allows landlords to request the repair of the dwelling, raises questions about the meaning and content of the rent, and this would probably lead to more extensive litigation. A generalisation of the practice of disputes arising from rental contracts for dwellings leads to the conclusion that it is customary to draw up a rental contract and to determine, in a substantial part, the terms of the rental agreement by the lessor. The lessor therefore has significantly better opportunities in practice to protect his or her interests and to shape a legally clear and responsible rental relationship. This has been highlighted by the chairman of the Tallinn Circuit Court. He has also said that tenants are now in a much worse position and that the proposed changes, in particular the obligation to maintain the premises for the tenant and the reform of the deposit rule, would create new and substantial areas of dispute. This would in all likelihood result in a longer period of judicial settlement of rental disputes. I have already told you that we in the Commission also discussed two proposals from the Social Democratic Party. One thing is that if a person remains unemployed and finds himself in a difficult economic situation, he could have the opportunity to cancel both a fixed-term contract and a fixed-term contract earlier. Our understanding is that this would also help to ensure that the lessor will not have long litigation later so that all expenses can be covered and the lessor will not ultimately have to pay utility costs, because the tenant has not been able to do so. The second amendment, which we have also made and which I have already talked about, is to delete from the draft a text that allows us to agree on the basis of a rental agreement that the landlord has the right to require the tenant to repair the dwelling or to cover the costs of repairs. Often tenants sign such an agreement without considering the consequences. And when the time comes for the repairs, the repairs that the tenant does may not be good enough or the landlord tells the tenant that I will arrange the repairs myself, but you will pay, and this repair could be several times more expensive than the actual monthly rent. Ultimately, we expected a more balanced approach from this draft. If the lessor is given more opportunities, they promise to make contracts as I say, not as rigid as that, then the tenant... I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U315	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U316	...then the tenant will have no further opportunity to agree on a draft. In fact, there should have been additional possibilities for the tenant to cancel the lease for one reason or another. If we look at the current law, there are a number of points that allow the lessor to cancel the lease and only one paragraph that allows the tenant to cancel the lease early for good reasons. According to the Social Democrats, this bill will take the balance away, to the detriment of the tenant. That is why our proposal is... [[Browse papers.]] I hope I find that paper. ... The draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act initiated by the Government of the Republic is suspended at second reading in order to allow additional proposals to be included in this draft, further amendments to be made so that the draft, which will become the law, is in balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U317	Okay. Now we can probably consider the negotiations to be concluded. There is no further wish for negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. These are the amendments to draft 232. The first amendment was tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account and it is not to be voted on pursuant to § 106 (2) of the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. The second amendment, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Proposal by the Steering Committee: to be disregarded. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U318	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this very good amendment to protect the interests of tenants.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U319	Let's put it to a vote, I call on everyone to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the second amendment of the draft 232 proposed by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U320	This amendment received 8 votes in favour and 47 members of the Riigikogu opposed. The amendment was not supported. The following amendment, Amendment 3, made by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U321	I would ask for this amendment, which is essentially related to the previous amendment, to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U322	Should we get the call to work, or should we vote now? Let's vote now! So I am voting on the third amendment on the 232 that has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U323	9 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this amendment, 46 members of the Riigikogu opposed. The proposal was not supported. The fourth amendment, made by the Committee on Legal Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Nobody calls for a vote. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of the draft 232, but we also have the Social Democratic Party Group's proposal to interrupt the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act (terrestrial relations) initiated by the Government of the Republic at second reading. Shall I turn on the call? I won't. Then I will vote on the draft proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group 232 to suspend the procedure at second reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U324	9 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of interrupting the draft procedure, against 47. The second reading of the bill will not be interrupted and will go to the third reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U325	Ladies and gentlemen, we now have the last item on the agenda, item 16. This is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Riina Sikkut, Ivari Padari, Jaak Juske, Heljo Pikhofi, Raimond Kaljulaid and Indrek Saare on 17 September 2020 regarding developments in the field of forestry. Representative of the heirs, member of the Riigikogu Jevgeni Ossinovski, please! Reply by the Minister of the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U326	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, On 17 September, the Social Democrats submitted an inquiry to Minister for the Environment Rene Koka on developments in forestry. This pushed directly from the fact that despite the long-term effort, the Ministry was unable to bring the forestry development plan to the Riigikogu in time for a new period. This period ends in three weeks. The failure of the Ministry is quite remarkable of itself, as it is an undoubtedly important issue. The Environment Minister himself also proposed that the existing plan be extended and that the new plan be left to an indefinite future. In the meantime, Mr Kokk has resigned and we are pleased to welcome the new Minister for the Environment, who has to respond to this inquiry today as a member of the Government of the Republic. Our questions are beautifully detailed, not only concerning the forestry development plan, but also broader developments in the field of forestry, which are undoubtedly worrying and have caused a great deal of tension in society. It was only last week that the topic of intensive forest management or the intensity of cuttings received more attention in the press. We all got to see it. Consequently, we would like the Minister to present his vision of this environmental issue that is very important for Estonia. As the forest is a very large part of Estonia, the way in which forestry is organised and managed in a balanced way depends on the well-being of the people of Estonia, but certainly also on the protection of ecological values, the richness of species and much more. We have seven questions for the Minister, four or five of which are directly concerned with the process of drawing up the forestry development plan. However, some questions concern the so-called LULUCF regulation that will apply to forestry in the new period of the European Union, which will set a certain framework for forestry choices. I am not going to read all these questions here now, but I am going to ask the Minister to read the question himself before answering a specific question. We look forward to meaningful answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U327	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, the chair is yours!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U328	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'm glad to be here on such an important subject as the forest to talk to you. There are people who said that when the minister changes, it is as if this question is going back and must be submitted again, but I disagreed and said that if the Riigikogu wants answers to its questions, it is necessary to come to the Riigikogu to give these answers. As Mr Ossinovski asked, I will read the question and then go to the answer. The first question asked me to describe why, despite wide-ranging discussions, the Ministry did not make it anywhere in essence when drawing up the new forestry development plan. Knowing how interested everyone in the forest-related society is, the Ministry of the Environment decided to involve representatives of different interest groups as widely as possible in the preparation process of the development plan. And this broad-based involvement has continued to date. This is a bottom-up approach, let's say, which is different from a normal top-down approach. The material is usually provided and proposals are asked, and a development plan has now been sought in such a way that stakeholders are involved and a development plan is born. The aim has been to reach a social agreement with the support of these discussions. Today, we can see that the discussions have not brought the parties closer to each other; rather, even more polarisation has taken place during a long and substantial process. Unfortunately, we are in a situation where the parties involved in the development plan have not been able to reach agreements in disputes. As with all other national strategic documents, a strategic environmental impact assessment will be launched in parallel with the development plan. In the case of this development plan, a strategic environmental assessment was also launched on 4 September last year by decree of the Minister for the Environment. Since September last year, for more than a year now, we have been looking for an impact assessor and this has become the most important obstacle to moving forward with the content of MAK. The process was to last until the end of last year, but about then the second call for an impact assessment failed. Neither did the assessment of the effects of forestry development scenarios succeed. As a result, we had to change the process with the decision of the Steering Board. This year, we have gone ahead with the search for an evaluator, and also in defiance of COVID's obstacles, with the preparation of the development plan taking time and slowing down a bit. To date, the procurement of the environmental impact assessment and other impact assessment has failed four times. According to potential evaluators, the main obstacles are the large volume of material and uncertainty caused by mass returns, as well as the lack of forest experts in specific companies. Companies have also highlighted their already high workload. There are 61 general plans currently being drawn up in the country, with impact assessments carried out by the same companies. Procurements have been amended and the reasons have been clarified, and today the companies have given us at least verbal confirmation that they will make an offer. New procurement is currently underway, this time international. We'll be waiting for tenders in December 14th, in a week's time. Since the current Steering Board has become a forum for exchanging views rather than seeking compromises and agreements, I have decided to put an end to this Steering Board. I signed this order today before I came here. I certainly intend to convene a new Steering Board, but before that, I would like to consult with ministerial officials and external experts in order to clarify the role of the new Steering Board in the process. I personally believe that the substantive preparation of the development plan must be carried out by experts in the field, and the Steering Board should be the body that keeps up the pace of the process and, in the case of disputes and disagreements, is working to find a compromise. On the second question, you are asking for my grade to the Ministry for the management of this process: which has succeeded well, which is not. It is certainly a good thing that the forestry development plan has been drawn up with the essence of Estonia as a whole, and that is why forestry is well recognised as an important topic in society. Another positive aspect of this process is that there has been a huge amount of material on the basis of which to shape positions on various issues. We know both the common parts and the differences, as well as the concerns of the various interested parties. Indirectly, 700 people have participated in the polling process. Directly there are participants in just over 100, including have participated in five universities. 37 meetings have taken place, which have often taken all day. In addition to organising meetings, the Ministry's Forest Department has done a great deal of work working through material, systematising and analysing it. On the negative side, it has to be said that broad-based inclusion has not produced the desired result. The Ministry did not foresee that the participants in the Steering Board would not take advantage of the opportunity to understand each other's views and seek agreements in a peaceful debate, but would take an exchange of views through social media and traditional media to the public, where it was often consciously sought to make it as conflicting as possible. This has ultimately given the public a very confusing picture of the real positive and negative aspects of forestry. This, in turn, has deterred environmental impact assessors. We did not think that during the 30 years of independence, Estonian society had still not come to understand the importance of voluntary agreements and the idea of participating in discussions. Current experience tells us that such inclusion is well suited for mapping concerns, but not for solving them. The third question: "In the course of the preparation of the new MAK, an analysis of the impact of development scenarios was commissioned by the Stockholm Environmental Institute (SEI). The analysis found that the optimal volume of felling is 8 million cubic metres per year. All parties and the public had the impression that the Ministry did not like the result of the analysis, which led to the search for all kinds of shortcomings in the work and finally refused to use this work in the MAK production process. Please state the specific shortcomings and describe how they will change the overall conclusion of the study that the volume of felling should fall in order to ensure sustainability." Good questioners! In my opinion, this type of erecting of the question suggests that you think the Ministry would like a forestry development plan that is unsustainable. To be honest, I cannot understand why you think the Ministry of the Environment has acted maliciously on this matter. The management contract with SEI was terminated by agreement and the Ministry does not have any complaints regarding the performance of the contract in accordance with the termination agreement. The agreement as an integral part of the agreement has been described as being the major shortcomings in the work. The result of the analysis made one area more important than the others, but it is not in line with the objective set out in the initial mandate and in the MAK 2030 proposal. The work was commissioned to assess the impact of four areas. They were social, economic, ecology and culture. SUCH work, however, focused on climate and biodiversity. The impact of the different scenarios was not compared, but one of the best scenarios was identified, in their view, in contrast to the task being set up. In addition, the work submitted and subsequently adjusted for the initial period did not meet all the conditions described in the initial task or the tender submitted by the principal. It was therefore not possible to use the work for specific purposes. However, the setting of a framework for climate and biodiversity objectives is of value in the preparation of the environmental development plan for the nature conservation action plan up to 2030, so that the final work can be used to some extent in the preparation of this action plan. Question 4: "How would the Estonian timber sector be affected if Estonia did not have a valid MAK? It has been suggested that in this case Estonia would not be able to obtain euro funds in the LULUCF area and that our energy timber would not get a sign of climate neutrality. " LULUCF regulations do not form the basis for the current forestry development plan. The existence of a forestry development plan is voluntary for countries. These issues are unrelated. You are most likely to have thought about a forest accounting plan, which is a specific document prepared for LULUCF and submitted to the European Commission. The document can be found on the Ministry's website. If anyone would like an accurate reference, please write to me or the Ministry officials. Question 5: "On 14 September 2020 you said in the Committee of the Environment of the Riigikogu that, in the situation that developed, the government intends to propose to the Riigikogu that the existing MAK be extended until the adoption of a new one. The current development plan considers the cutting volume to be "long-term sustainable" of 12 to 15 million cubic metres per year (to which most eco-nomists disagree). Does the extension of the existing development plan mean that industry will be able to cut even more than today in the coming years and the government will be able to avoid discussions about whether the sustainable volume of felling is 6, 8 or 10 million cubic metres? " Since Rene Kokk, then Minister for the Environment, attended the meeting of this Committee on the Environment, I regret that I cannot comment on what was discussed there. I will go to the following question: "Considering that Estonia has been allowed to cut up to 10 million cubic metres per year, under the LULUCF regulation, which could cost tens of millions of euros (the exact price is still unknown today, but may be even higher in size!). Do you think that the purchase of quotas resulting from excessive cutting should be financed by the timber industry, or should these costs be covered jointly and severally by the state budget? How far have you come with the establishment of the corresponding LULUCF management mechanism?" The binding commitments in terms of carbon emissions and removals from the LULUCF sector for the period 2021 to 2030 are due to the LULUCF Regulation adopted in May 2018. The Regulation requires LULUCF sector emissions to be compensated by carbon sequestration in the same sector. First of all, it should be borne in mind that LULUCF, the area of land use, especially forests, is the only carbon-binding sector in Estonia. The rest of the sectors are throwing carbon. Based on the 2018 assessment, this sector is able to broadly link 10% of Estonia's total carbon emissions. With regard to the quota estimate and the logic of LULUCF accounting, I would say so much that LULUCF accounts will be taken into account from next year. On the basis of the LULUCF accounting plan, the average felling volume for the years 2021 to 2025, together with the flexibility measure, is estimated at between 10,5 and 11,5 million cubic metres per year. In addition to the category of wooded land, the LULUCF sector also includes arable land, grassland and wetlands, including peat quarry and gardening peat, settlements and other land. Overall, the sector needs to be at least balanced and the primary projections show that there should be no shortage. The LULUCF quota trading scheme is a transnational system of the European Union that does not apply to businesses. Based on the latest survey data, the recommended volume of felling for the Estonian forest use is 10 to 12 million cubic metres per year in order to achieve the climate policy objectives. As an accounting plan was drawn up for forests, providing for an average annual felling volume of up to 11,5 million cubic metres, the preliminary estimate is that this volume will not be exceeded. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that the LULUCF sector is also composed of emissions from the use of arable land, deforestation and extraction of gardening pits, in addition to the removal of forestry. The latter three are important factors in achieving sector neutrality. And in the event of a quota deficit, the sector's contribution to reducing emissions should be assessed in a complex way. And the last question: "What is your assessment of today's cutting volumes as the Minister responsible for environmental protection? Are they optimal, as the government valued ten years ago, or rather too big? " I base my assessments on previous agreements and national data. Sustainable felling capacity is described in the current forestry development plan as follows: "The main criterion for sustainable forestry is to use forest resources as evenly as possible over the long term to the extent of the increase. In Estonia, the long-term sustainable goal is to use 12 to 15 million m3 of forest material per year. It is estimated that this amount of wood grows to the forest each year. " One of the three sub-objectives of the development plan also states that in the long term, wood will be used as a renewable natural resource in the wood industry and in the energy sector to the extent of growth. According to the Environmental Agency, the volume of felling was 11.3 million cubic metres in 2019, the stock increase of forest land over 16 million cubic metres per year and the stock increase of managed forest land is higher than the felling volume. Today's statistics clearly show that during the development plan period the average felling volume is 10.7 million cubic metres per year and has not reached the long-term wood use volume indicated in the development plan. A number of wood supply scenarios were also prepared for MAK 2020, including more than government, active use and smaller volume, declining wood supply scenarios. At that time, a moderate supply scenario was chosen, representing a cutting volume of 12 to 15 million cubic metres per year. The background is so much that according to statistical forest inventory, we have 14.1% of the area of forest land under strict protection. The development plan aimed at 10%, plus an additional 11.3% of the forests, i.e. different constraints, which together account for more than 25% of the forest where economic activity is limited in one way or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U329	Thank you. And now the questions are in order. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask one oral question, the length of which is one minute. First, Riina asks for Sikku. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U330	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! In a situation where very many Estonian people believe that we have too much forest cut, it was somewhat surprising to hear your estimate that if our average felling volume in previous years was 10.7 million cubic metres and last year it was perhaps 11.3 million, then it is actually a modest volume or a moderate volume, At the same time, we are in a situation where clear cutting is already being cut or done even in protected areas. We hear indications from different parts of Estonia that they are going after protected forests. What is your position on whether the economic value of these forests or the value of the region's ecosystem is more important for protected areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U331	Thank you. I tried not to make an assessment of moderation, but simply to read out the numbers that have come out of the statistics. As for this, as you said, many people believe... I think that is why the large steering body may not have reached an agreement among themselves on the objectives, that many people had different opinions and that the opinions of scientists and experts were a little backwards there. Or, if not, the opinions of different people, which are of course important in a democratic society, simply had to be discussed. People need to have an opinion and they need to be discussed. But we still want to get to the strategy paper eventually. I think that, when I call a new governing body, I will certainly try to cover all the areas that the law requires in order to prepare a development plan. There must be no restriction on the diversity of opinions, but at the same time there must be a search for common elements in these opinions and an agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U332	Thank you. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U333	Thank you very much. Minister, it is a pleasure to welcome you to your first performance here. As a former member of the Board of the State Forest Management Centre, you are certainly well aware of this issue, and you also know that one of the major problems we have in forestry is communication with communities, especially with local communities, when they start chopping up forests in their vicinity. At the same time, when we look at our forest law, it clearly states that the State Forest Management Centre, if it is cutting anything, must involve communities. Similarly, the State Forest Management Centre has established internal rules, general principles for the management of state forests, and they say that the information, involvement and negotiation of communities must be done by the end of last year. Unfortunately, we have many cases where the State Forest Management Centre does not comply with its own rules. Why is that? Can you tell me what this is all about?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U334	As far as I am concerned, the 'higher interest' side of involving forests is structured in such a way that RMK closely monitors where these forests are of higher public interest. And this list changes all the time, because inside it has been agreed in RMK that if there's a signal that there's an elevated public interest in a forest tree, it's going to be a 'work plan'. I do not dare agree at the moment that all these areas should have been negotiated and concluded by a specific date. Rather, it is a rolling list of dates to be added to these areas. I am completely inclined to believe that inclusion should take place. When people say somewhere, I don't know that they've been run over, I'd be happy to hear about specific cases. I have already asked for information on some cases, including dates and participants, and how these meetings have been conducted. If there are any specific cases, please let me know.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U335	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U336	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I will continue with Mr Jaanson's question. Last week, we had issues that specifically concerned the case of Treiman and the Forest Side, where the intensification of forest management resulted in clashes with local residents. That is the same subject: forests with a heightened public interest. I understand that, after lengthy disputes and interference by the Data Protection Inspectorate, RMK published a list of these KAH areas last week. But he published it only in part, in part it is unpublished. And hence my question: why has RMK still not revealed all areas of high public interest? And should RMK refrain from cutting important state forests for communities close to settlements and replace clear cutting, for example, by selective or security cutting?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U337	First of all, what kind of forest management techniques are used. This is where I'd be happy to trust experts. But as for whether or not RMK has published the whole list, I have to say that I have already asked RMK exactly how it is. I really understand from the press that some of the information is public and some are not. In my opinion, if there's a public interest, the information could be public. But I look forward to further details on this from RMK and maybe some next time this issue can be discussed in more detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U338	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U339	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Dear Minister, it is a pleasure to listen to you. I'd like to ask you about the role of RMK. As we know, the greatest common share of the values of Estonian people lies in nature, including the forest. Definitely a mature forest is also very important, and not only for the people of Estonia, but also for the richness of the species, with which we are unfortunately experiencing problems. If RMK follows today's development plan, the entire state-owned mature forest will be cut down in ten years, including that which grows in these same areas of increased public interest. Do you think that this development plan and RMK's goals, such as those that have recently realised in the form of large dividends in the state budget, correspond to the values of the Estonian people, our goals in environmental preservation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U340	Thank you. I think that is why it is important to move forward quickly with the new development plan so that there are clearly agreed new directions that take account of the values that exist in society. Well, that would be settled. I think the Riigikogu should tell RMK what this plan is, and I think RMK will be able to implement the plans very well if they change compared to today. If you assess the current situation, the year and the current development plan are about to come to an end, but it has been acted upon. Of course, the problem with these development plans is that, if we put them in place for a long time, in the meantime, people's mentality may change and people's opinions may start to differ a little. But I don't think RMK has acted badly. Nor do I think that the dividend received in the state budget should be viewed as negative in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U341	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U342	Thank you. Why has Environment Agency, a department that you run, so far refused to give the University of Tartu access to statistical forest inventory data for research purposes? And second, why have more than a quarter of the heightened objects of public interest still not been published? Those two questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U343	I can't answer the first question, but I've asked it myself. As far as I know, the agreement is being concluded with the University of Tartu, and this information either has moved already in those days or should move immediately. I don't have the courage to say the exact dates, but I asked what the problem was. This problem, as far as I know, should be resolved at any moment. And to another why-issue, as I have just said, I expect an exact answer from RMK from where the border was drawn, which has been published and which has left something unpublished.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U344	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U345	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! As you know, nearly half of the timber harvested in Estonia is used in energy. While the development of bioenergy in Estonia began with a reasonable plan to use wood crumbs and branches in local boiler houses for winter heating, over the years there has been a massive increase in the destruction of healthy trees and inefficient electricity burning in large power plants. Only last week's "The Spectator" saw how the acceleration of clear cutting in Estonia is linked to the mass burning of Estonian timber in large coal stations. There was also shown the England's Drax power plant. The reason why this kind of anti-environmental activity has gained momentum lies in the Renewable Energy Directive, which treats wood pellets as carbon neutral fuel, for which countries can pay off to power plants. And now my question. How do you assess whether the Renewable Energy Directive, which, among other things, promises to support inefficient mass burning of wood, is more environmentally sustainable or harmful? And do you think that the sustainability criterion for wood should be tightened up at EU level?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U346	Thank you. I, too, have been thinking about the matter of the pellet. I think it is worthwhile, together, to keep these debates alive in the direction of the European Union. Perhaps there is a need to make changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U347	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U348	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, welcome to the Riigikogu. There was a brief question, but I still don't think you answered. The previous minister said in the Committee on the Environment that since the new forestry development plan has been delayed, the existing one could be extended. What is your specific position on this matter? How do you proceed? Is it necessary to extend the existing development plan? Are you going to come up with this proposal? If you think you don't need to, how long could it take to make a new development plan, and what will be the consequences if it stretches further?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U349	Thank you. I don't dare say it's gonna take long to make a new one. I will try to make this process faster than it has been so far, and hopefully a new development plan will be adopted within a reasonable time. As regards the extension of the existing scheme, I think that if we do not have any new plan to act on, this situation is not optimal. In other words, start making some sort of temporary plan between here, while at the same time drawing up a long-term development plan, well, it may not be quick to target us either. So, rather, I think it makes sense to move on to today's plan and try to get a new plan in place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U350	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U351	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. When you took office, it was like it was. After all, you have described this: already four procurements for the development plan for forestry had failed. Let's just say I don't envy you in this situation. But I'm sure you have some very clear desire of your own to deal with this situation. In your previous reply to the Mart Võrguship, you mentioned that you could move forward with the old plan and try to make a new plan as soon as possible. But I ask you, as a politician, what would you really like to do in an ideal way?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U352	As a young politician, I have been looking at all of this for a long time. I think it would be fantastic for a man to walk into the house and, let's say, in a few months or a quarter, the development plan would be ready. But you have to strive for ideals in life.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U353	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U354	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, In your answers, you somehow made it clear that it has not always been good that different parties have taken their views to the public in the press and social media. On the contrary, as a friend of nature and a hiker who cares about the Estonian forests and the Estonian environment, I would like the discussion of large and important processes to be as open as possible, as public as possible, so that I know what the views of the various parties are, and I can also understand what is being debated and on which arguments, which facts are being disputed. Then I will be able to follow this process. Why do you think it's bad when different parties share their views in the press?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U355	Thank you. My thought at the end of that sentence actually went a little further. My point was that, by bringing it to the public, they often try to go on a black-and-white opposite path. You probably know better yourself that, of course, the press reflects everything objectively. At times, some information has been biased in a useful direction by those who have given it to the press. When a large number of people are called together and they can discuss things calmly and this process is well managed, I think it is easier to reach an agreement than when assessing each other's opinions or assessments in public. I myself have spoken to people on both sides and I must say that what they say in private conversations is different from what can be read in newspapers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U356	Thank you. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U357	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, first of all, I wish you the best of luck in your position, and also here today at the first test of fire. There are a large number of people, including me, who think that too much is being cut in Estonia. And there are people who say no, being cut sufficiently and correctly. What kind of people are you? I don't want to start asking questions of substance. Perhaps you have had little time to familiarise yourself with everything, even though you said when you took office that you were already familiar with this area. But what kind of people do you belong to?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U358	Thank you. Well, I'm one of those people who started almost every working day morning until the last career turn in the fast walk of an hour in the woods around home. There's some lanks in there, too. Let's say, according to my observations, I can't say that all the woods are gone from there, just like some people do sometimes. That's one. And two: somehow, in a public discussion, people are saying that yes, this scientist said so, but he's biased, the other scientist is better. As a minister, I certainly would not want to choose sides in this respect. I think a good level of forest science has been done in several universities. I'm very interested and happy to hear the opinions of both sides, but I'm still trying to get them at the table so they can finally get to the truth. I think the truth is still there. It's a little hard to tell me what it is today. I think the forest has to be managed and not on top of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U359	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U360	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Today, the question is that the forestry development plan will be over by the end of the year and how to manage the forest without a plan. The main dispute is whether the forest should be cut by 12 million cubic metres, as you think, or 8 million cubic metres a year, as the ecologists think. Previously, they were called conservation forests, the area is 703 and 73000 hectares in Estonia, which is only 5% of RMK's area. And yet they plan to take them down in the next ten years. You are a member of the Supervisory Board of RMK and you do not deny these plans. You have said that so little has been published about the depopulation of KAH areas because they do not want to give forest defences an orienteering map. I took it from your own interview. But then the confrontations between the villagers and the lumberjacks are set on fire. The last time it happened was in the Häädemeeste parish, where the cutting was stopped by a court decision. Is it really necessary to take down 5% of the forests around the resting areas, in protected areas, around people's homes, and try to do so in secret from people? Perhaps this 5% could be left to people in community forests? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U361	There were now several points. First of all, more generally, that really exciting and, as Mr Ossinovski has said, I have had a start. It has been interesting to read people's writings about what I think from day one. As you said, I think 12 million is optimal. I wouldn't want to say my opinion on cutting volumes so rigidly right now. That's first. As for this orienteering card, the interview where I talked about it, I gave it on the first day of ministerial office or the day before or the day after that. And there was this discussion with the journalist about what I think and why. And before that orienteering card sentence, I said that if there's a public interest, the information must be public. But I continued to discuss whether it would contribute to a constructive dialogue by putting out an orientation card for people who, for example, when taking morning coffee in a beautiful café in the capital, are wondering what to do today in time. And then they drive in to help local people figure out what to say about the forest. It was kind of a discussion. I certainly did not try to say that we should not tell people about plans concerning the community. As far as community forests are concerned, I think it is with them that perhaps it should be thought that they could be community forests with everything that belongs to them, not just walking places. If communities care about their forests, perhaps these forests could be put at the disposal of communities in one way or another to care for them, to renew them if necessary, to cut them, if that makes sense. Then, in my opinion, the effect of communityism is greater. Of course, people tend to call community forests even some not state-owned forests, but some private-owned forests. And then there's a lot of questions about private property, about who's gonna bear the costs, and so on. There's a lot to think about. I don't think it's that simple, someone's calling out it's a pleasant forest for our community, and somehow it's locking this forest down. I don't think that's how we can approach this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U362	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U363	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, could you still answer Riina Sikkut's question? What is your position on the implementation of clear cutting in protected areas? But my own question concerns the burning of wood and the intensive management of the forest. It is known that the equivalent amount of carbon dioxide released in the burning of wood will take about half a century, but Estonia's climate goals must be achieved in 20 years, climate neutrality by 2050. What's your position? If you take into account this intensive forest management, will it actually help us achieve the climate targets by 2050?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U364	Thank you. I'm trying to remember Riina Sikkut's question. [[They say something in the hall.]] I think and believe that no one in the protected areas will make clear cutting for purely management purposes. If there are concrete examples to the contrary, let me know. There are protection rules in place, there are very clear rules in place, what can be done and whether anything can be done. At the same time, I do not dare to argue here if, for some reason, specialists have said that there had to be a clear-cut here or there at some point, or some other type of felling. But yes, there are very clear rules in the protected areas. After all, we have reservations, where you can't even walk at certain times. I would say that if the rules of the protected area were to be violated, that would certainly be a problem and it would have to be dealt with. Now, as far as the issue of emissions is concerned, there is a matter of how long a growing forest binds carbon, from which age this binding decreases and how quickly we should renew the forest in order to meet our sector's interconnection targets or to keep this sector in balance. Again, I think scientists and other specialists have done a lot of calculations on this. One problem in Estonia is undoubtedly that the ripening of forests has not been uniform. We have a certain period of whole forests that have grown to maturity, and then the cutting volume is greater. But as we said here before, this sector is broadly capable of linking 10% to the outside of the sector, so right now we're kind of on the plus side.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U365	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U366	Thank you. I have two questions. The first concerns your answer to what is sustainable felling capacity. To quote the current forestry development plan, it is 12 to 15 million cubic metres, because then the annual increase exceeds the cutting. Could you please mention some of the sustainability criteria for forest management beyond the growth of the current year? And what do you think is the most important thing to have the same amount of wood growing in the same year? Is it even enough to assess sustainability? And there's the question about the board of directors. In what way should this new Steering Board, which you are calling, solve the problem that the old Steering Board had that the result was not achieved? They used to sit together, but they got somewhere. In what way will the new management under your authority result in a new forestry development plan for us as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U367	I would be happy to answer the first question by e-mail afterwards. It's safer that way. I'm sure there'd be a lot of criticism if I was wrong here with some number or other fact. Then the newspapers would have a lot more to write about tomorrow. So that's what I'd answer by e-mail. The second part of the question concerned the new Steering Board. Perhaps the reason for optimism is that I have still been a major part of my career in the private sector and look at it a little bit with that look. I guess I find out here every day how everything is really going to be, but, let's say, in the private sector, the time dimension isn't just theoretical, and the goals aren't like writing down something and going how it goes. Often in the private sector, however, when a group is set up to do something on a project basis and by the day when they had to do something, the need to extend their period of operation almost as much as the other will not normally be extended. In most cases, a new team will be set up and a new leader will be elected and it is hoped that it will do better. It often does.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U368	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U369	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It is good to hear your answers to the question of progress in the field of forestry. But I'm curious about one question. The EKRE electoral programme allows maximum size and reasonable felling capacity for clear cutting strips. Did your predecessor promise to reduce the surface area of clear cutting sites? How is implementation of this promise going? And when can we expect draft laws to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U370	Thank you. As far as I know, my predecessor didn't do it. I don't dare take poison, either. The idea came out, but I'm not sure it even came up with some legislative acts. We have to check it out. I believe that the maximum clear-cut area may not help us much further, either in the view of one or the other. Rather, the forestry development plan would try to find a place where the general principles for forest management and protection are well-balanced and take into account the expectations of society.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U371	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U372	Thank you for the floor. Minister, thank you very much. How do you feel about this amendment to the Electricity Market Act, which is currently under the procedure of the Riigikogu and for which a State aid permit is expected, which gives the opportunity to burn wood in Narva Power Plants and receive a renewable energy payment for it. Here, on earlier issues, this burning of wood and the payment of the renewable energy fee have already run through, and you admitted that maybe this is not the most appropriate thing. At the same time, the government you belong to, the current government union is planning another legislative amendment that will significantly increase the burning of wood in Narva oil shale boilers in no effective way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U373	Thank you. What I had in mind before was that, if we have this larger framework in place at all levels of the European Union, perhaps, if we see that this is not entirely reasonable, we should make joint efforts to make it more sensible. Otherwise, as long as this framework is in place, as long as it affects our lives, I do not think it is worth putting ourselves in a worse competitive position than other Member States. They're kind of our competitors, though, aren't they? I think that, as long as wood and biomass are considered a zero-emission energy source in the European Union, there is no point in restricting ourselves. After all, the aim is not to burn valuable timber, but to burn everything that today has no better chance of being devalued in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U374	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U375	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, My constituency is Ida-Virumaa and I have been somewhat surprised and pleasantly surprised that the Russian people stand in Narva and Narva-Jõesuu for the forest. It is one of the most beautiful civil movements to protect the forest. And these people are asking about what Estonia is planning to do with its forest, also in Russian. What is your position as a minister, how much information should be available in both Estonian and Russian on Estonia's forest policy? How much do you consider it necessary to duplicate information in your field into Russian, given the relatively large Russian-speaking community living in our country?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U376	Thank you. You were here for a long time discussing language and education. I think it would be good if we had all the citizens to understand the national language and have a common information field. But the other way around, you have to look at reality. And if it contributes in any way to making the debate on the forest more meaningful, I do not object to this information being available in Russian as well. Especially those who are on the ground can share information on the current occasion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U377	Thank you, Minister. No more questions for you. Thank you! And now let's go to the negotiations. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U378	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, A few comments following this meaningful debate. It is undoubtedly pleased that the Minister has taken a positive stance on a subject such as forest disclosure. To be honest, it is completely incomprehensible that in a democratic country in an area that matters to people, which concerns almost every one of us, there is still a situation where the statistical forest inventory data collected by the state in order to produce statistics in this area is not available to the Estonian scientific community either. This topic was discussed several months ago by the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu. Then the Environment Agency said yes, we could make them public, for example, to the University of Tartu. So far, these data have not been made public. Something was prepared to draft the agreement, as the Minister said, but then something began to be said about the proceedings of the Data Protection Inspectorate and so far there is no solution. I hope that the Minister of honor will be good at ensuring that researchers of the University of Tartu can still access these data in the near future in order to verify the forecasts that have been made on the basis of these data. This question is not trivial at all. In fact, in the course of the previous year, when the same forestry development plan was prepared, including the same management volume that has been disbanded, the Environmental Agency's assessment of sustainable long-term felling volumes also concerned the management of the carbon stock, such that the optimal felling capacity for carbon storage is 8 million per year. At one point, the Environmental Agency decided to change the methodology and suddenly reached an optimal cutting volume of 12 million. No big difference: today's felling volume is about a third smaller. Many ecologists have also spoken about this before, and this is, by the way, about the same number that the Stockholm Environmental Institute wrote down in a work that the Ministry did not adopt because it considered ecological objectives and values to be too important, but did not sufficiently assess socio-economic goals. The Minister spoke about this today, too, when the Ministry reiterated its earlier position. In this situation, this is a very important change, bearing in mind all the basic data needed for this discussion in order to conclude what then is sustainable and optimal forest management. It has not been possible to verify this independently because researchers do not have the data they need. So it is very important that this disclosure comes. And I hope the Minister will keep his word. The second question, which has been asked several times, is the increased areas of public interest. RMK has been criticised for the sustainable forestry agreement FSC: there are, to say the least, significant shortcomings in the inclusion procedure that is being carried out. And, of course, if there is a public interest, I very much agree with this position, then these data should indeed be public. Can I have some more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U379	Sure. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U380	Now, there is another very important issue, for which you can also be pleased, at least as a certain advance. This concerns the bio-efficiency criterion in the context of the Renewable Energy Directive. Indeed, the development of bioenergy was boosted by the use of waste from the wood industry as a local fuel, as a local renewable fuel. Under conditions where CO2 emissions would have occurred quickly anyway, the use of these wastes to replace fossil fuels is very sensible. But, as often happens, when regulation is inflexible and there are big business interests behind it, what starts as a reasonable goal, in fact, can very quickly turn into perversion. And this has happened to the same bioenergy in large European countries, where consumers are massively paying to clear the forest in Estonia, Latvia and other wood-rich countries. By the way, a similar thing has happened to the first generation of biofuels. It was once thought that a sensible thing was: to reduce the use of fossil fuels, we would also include bioethanol or biodiesel. But in fact, when it went on as a massive support measure or as an obligation, we saw that it had become more like logging in Indonesia, the destruction of rainforests, etc. The European Commission is currently at this stage that the bio-efficiency criterion will be reviewed, as the European research community agrees that it is actually the madness that is happening in this context. And Estonia, as an important country in the context of this energy, certainly depends on a great deal here. I think we could have a balanced and thoughtful position on this issue. We haven't seen it so far. Now a final remark of a more fundamental nature. This concerns a question that the Minister said he would answer in writing. We will be happy to continue this debate both in writing and orally in the following formats. This concerns this mantra, which has so far been considered to be the cornerstone of this whole logging debate. That if we have an increase in the current year above the current year's cutting, then we are doing well, then the forests will be managed sustainably. This is, of course, one of the possible ways to assess sustainability, but certainly the sustainability of forests in all their diverse tasks cannot be reduced in cultural, socio-economic and ecological terms. The sustainability criteria are much more than that. Siim Kuresoo, member of the board of the Estonian Foundation for Nature, who said that when I say that I trim my beard in the volume of the increase, it does not say anything about whether or not I have a beard. Well, it's a bit similar to the woods. The biggest core dispute in the next forestry development plan, where no agreement was reached, has been that, in addition to cutting volumes for the sustainability of wood pulp, the current development plan does not take sufficient account of ecological values. These values must certainly be taken more into account in the new development plan. And that means cutting volumes have to decrease. But we thank the Minister for the Environment for his answers and hope that the promises that have been made will be kept. We will continue to work on the success of this area! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U381	Thank you. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U382	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The national forestry development plan and the management of the entire forest is an important issue that is drawn up: it is a relationship with society and, above all, with local communities. This issue must have been out of focus for a long time, and it has turned out to be bigger problems. What are they? We cannot adopt the forestry development plan, nor can we peacefully manage local forests, nor can we reach agreements on how they should be managed. I, too, have had the honour of getting into the middle of these stories or honour, and I see it as one of the major problems is communication in shaping cuttings, when it is necessary to take local communities into account. We all understand that the forest is our very important natural resource. The forest is growing all the time, and it needs to be cut off. This is all the area of activity of scientists and other professionals; they say how best to do it. But it has to be communicated to communities, it is one way of involving. And now the big problem is that if some kind of rules are made for inclusion and these are completely reasonable rules, they should be respected. And if these rules are not followed, if people are to be called on the road just before the felling, or if people wake up at night to the fact that tractors rumble in the woods in the forest near the forest of their home, protests will appear. And protests lead to fundamental confrontations. In my opinion, the new minister and ministry must solve a big, big task: to learn to get along with communities. This is particularly true of the State Forest Management Centre. The State Forest Management Centre outlines its general principles in which it writes that, especially in the case of clear cuttings or thinning cuttings, all must be discussed with communities. By 1 December of last year at the latest, these matters must be thoroughly clarified, the plans presented to the community and not the people shocked. If this isn't done, if we see that a few months before the real harvest people are called together somewhere on the road, and they're told in good time that this kind of thing and this kind of thing are happening, and soon the tractors start to rumble and the woods start to fall, well, that's very shocking. Let us not forget that the forest has a very, very, very long growth cycle. When middle-aged people have lived for 50 years and grown up next to some woodpecker and used to it, and then suddenly one morning instead of spreading the clearing, it's not very easy to accept. It's emotionally difficult. Because of the length of this cycle, it is not a good thing that we suffer one day or one year, or even a few years, and then there is a new forest instead and the picture is back in order. No, it's a matter of generations.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U383	Would the waitress like an extra time? Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U384	So it really is a story that people need to get used to, people need to negotiate. Today's presentation by the Minister was positive, at least for me, in the sense that he acknowledged the problem of state forest management. I think it is a great job and a great task for the Minister and the Ministry to better deal with and involve communities.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U385	Thank you. Heiki Hepner, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U386	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The forest is certainly important to the Estonian people. And in this sense, it is very welcome that we are also talking and asking questions on this issue. I picked up a few keywords I'd like to share with you as an academic educated woodsman. First of all, I note that we have such a saying that if we want to have 100-year-old forests in 100 years' time, this forest should have been cut and planted last year. Then we'll have a 100-year-old forest sometime. That trees aren't forever, I think you all know. When we're talking about carbon sequestration here, let's say that in 50 years, this carbon that we're going to burn today will be bonded. In fact, if the tree dies, the carbon will be released even if we don't put it in the oven. A little bit is stored in soil and micro-organisms. A little bit, actually! And I would like to point out that, in their case, we can calmly say that they achieve a capacity maturity of 20 to 30, perhaps at the age of 40 in some cases. That's the maximum, the most effective carbon binding. In life, we still stress that if we want to say that the glass is half empty, then we say that it is half empty. And if some people think it would be helpful to say that they're half full, they also say that the glass is half full, although only a few drops are on the bottom. This attitude does not take us much further in this debate. I'm a little out of the question that we've started blaming the Environment Agency in a deep state and not trusting their actions. This statistical forest inventory, which we have been doing here from Estonia for 20 years, has been done in Sweden for 100 years. And it has never really been called into question. It is rather strange to hear such talk from colleagues who otherwise ridicule the deep state. Let's think about it! I do not really know the details behind which the availability of these data is blocked, but I have heard that this data should be non-personalised. I'll bring you a parallel from medicine. If we want science to be done in medicine, the data will take away references to specific people so that they cannot be identified. I can see that the forest, too, seeks to avoid manipulation of specific data. Thus, information about the exact location where measurements have been made is excluded. It's a common international practice. Maybe a few thoughts about permanent forestry. Of course, the subject of areas of high public interest should be considered. I believe that cooperation with communities is an area in which to make an effort. The understanding of forestry should be more effective and better. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U387	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U388	I will also give you an example: we very lightly throw into the air the idea that we should not do clear cutting. But if we're dealing with a spruce, there's no other way in Estonia. The storm just knocks down the tree that's standing, and we'll go in a year or two, and we'll chop the place up. Only the difference is that we have lost economics. Here the question was, what is sustainable forest management? Forest management is sustainable if we treat all four components of the environment, economy, social affairs and culture equally and look for a common part of them. We could compare it to a stool. There's no use taking a stool with four legs and laying a stack on one leg. That's how we get a high monster that really isn't good for anything. The same is true of sustainable forest management. I really cannot tell you today whether the long-term cutting volume should be 12 million or 10 million, but I dare say that the women and men who work in Estonian forest science and those who work in the forestry sector at the Environmental Agency are working with their hearts. They are loyal to the Estonian state and they do not intend to deceive the Estonian state. I believe that. Estonian forest science is very highly recognised in the world and I am proud of that. We have only a few disciplines that deserve such recognition from all over the world. And that's why I think the sum of Estonian forestry is in good hands. Of course, things can be done better. There is no job that can't be done better. And in that sense, I wish the Minister strength. I am also convinced that we can discuss this issue calmly here and also debate the forestry development plan. This is a very important document. But I do not think that because we do not have a new forestry development plan now, our forestry is not sustainable. Forestry is vital for Estonia. We can also use the fruits we harvest from the forest to cover our social needs, to preserve our environment and habitats, to preserve our cultural characteristics, but also, of course, to grow our economic prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U389	Thank you. Does Evgeny Ossinovski have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U390	I would like to take the floor because the previous speaker misinterpreted the points mentioned in my speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U391	In that case, if your name or your views were mentioned, you are indeed entitled to a rejoinder. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U392	Dear Mr. Hepner! I would like to thank you for this addition to this discussion, but a good colleague was asked because he did not understand what I meant when I spoke about the need to disclose statistical forest inventory data. Of course, it is not a question of someone knowingly manipulating or lying or whatever. You're referring to some politicians from Mr. Hepner's coalition partner. My view is that the data that are professionally collected during the statistical forest inventory is not a question of the reliability of these basic data. The question is what long-term forecasts can be made on the basis of these data, such as the forecasts of the forest reserve for the next 50 or 100 years. It is no longer an exact science; this prgnosis is an estimate and, of course, forest scientists and other specialists on this subject can argue. However, in order for them to be able to argue on this issue, data must be equally accessible to everyone. The exact location of the samples has not been requested by the University of Tartu. He has made it clear that it is actually accepted that the exact location has been removed from the data. These failures have occurred elsewhere. As far as forests are concerned, Mr Hepner underestimates one thing that has been very little studied in Estonia, and that is the question of how much carbon is bound by old and very old forests. Several studies carried out in this region show that, in fact, old forests continue to bond carbon, despite the fact that individual trees, of course, die from natural cycles over time. So it is not so unambiguous in the context of what Mr Hepner has learned in order to obtain academic education. In general, I think that there is still a need for discussion between the representatives of different views.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U393	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U394	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. My colleague Heiki Hepner gave recognition to forest scientists. When I was working in the Committee on the Environment in XII, I also brought myself up to date with forest issues. And I can only join my colleague's respect and thanks at the address of Estonian forest scientists. And when it was a big campaign against the pulp mill, I was really sorry and embarrassed to hear singers, artists and poets say that they knew nothing about their work or science. I still don't want to talk about the forest today because I don't know much about the forest. I know a thing or two about communityhood. I want to talk about the fellings of Häädemeeste, Rannamets and Valgeranna that have recently taken place or been shut down in Pärnu County. In the White Beach, the felling was put to a halt in a forest tree on the seaside, which has been used much by community members, local residents, because the members of the EKRE were opposed to it. And it was said that if the community opposes cutting, the local government will not allow cutting. But the Häädemees are still working on the forest technology. What did I want to say about this speaker today? I looked it up: There are almost 5,000 people living in Häädemeeste and Häädemeeste Parish is large, almost 500 square kilometres. One square kilometer is known to have 100 hectares, which means that there are 10 hectares of land per capita in the Häädemeeste area, and a large part of this land is forest. At present, these two disputed cuttings are 24 hectares in total and take place where roads have been developed. There's dune, high and sandy land, forest equipment gets on well. The forest is white because it's always been used. But people have lived there, there are beautiful places, there are hiking trails. I want to point out why this 24-hectare cutting can't be done anywhere else on these 50,000 hectares. I don't think that's possible. I think the minister might have listened to my speech and thought once. Perhaps he will look at the locations of forests with an increased public interest in RMK's eyes so that the communities will retain some or a few acres of forest. They could be managed handicraftally, without a large forest technique. These volumes are so small compared to our felling volumes and our forest hectares that they could be kept by communities. Thank you. That's all for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U395	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. That concludes the question. Thanks to the questioners! Thanks for the answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-07_U396	But now, ladies and gentlemen, you have the opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone. You can do that after you hit the hammer. But I feel like I've run out of power, no callers. Thank you! The sitting is adjourned. Good night.
