ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will start the 18th working week Thursday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu, which is the last of this season. First of all, is there a desire to hand over drafts and inquiries? Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I want to hand over a draft which amends two laws, namely the Code of Misdemeanor Procedure and the Law of Traffic. This draft aims to create an incentive to influence the behaviour of the speedier by offering a cooling-off option instead of a financial penalty. The measure is intended to affect those who have exceeded the maximum permitted speed of up to 20 kilometres per hour. Alternative sanctions are worth considering, all the more so since the number of traffic offences remains high. So let's debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U3	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U4	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Social Democratic Party Group, I will report to the Minister for Social Affairs on the situation of children with chronic illness. If we otherwise talk about patient-centredity and personal medicine in healthcare and in social welfare, we offer services according to what the need is judged to be, in education we also aim for individual learning paths, then in the case of children with chronic illness, receiving both benefits and services often depends on whether they have a defined disability and whether it is difficult, medium or deep. There, however, this individuality would actually help quite a few children. We will describe two cases and ask about what is justified, for example, by the abolition of child support, support services and parental extra holidays for children with first-type diabetes, for whom no disability is prescribed. How has parental support for children with special needs been used as a crisis measure, how much has it been requested, whether it has been exceptionally designated and what is the assessment of the overall use of these benefits? There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U5	Government representative, Mrs. Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. First, the draft law supplementing § 28 of the Citizenship Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Mart Helme, Minister of the Interior, when dealing with the draft law. Secondly, the draft law on the ratification of the Treaty on the termination of bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union. The Government of the Republic is represented by Urmas Reinsalu when processing this bill in the Riigikogu. Both drafts have been submitted electronically. Have a nice summer! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U7	Thank you. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U8	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a pleasure and honour to give the Riigikogu a draft law amending the Law on Animal Protection and the Nature Conservation Act, which is initiated today by 23 members of the Riigikogu and aims to ban fur farms in Estonia. There are more signatories this time because the subject is not new, but the composition is new. There were 18 signatories at the last test in the previous composition, and now it's 23. The topicality of this topic in society is increasing, the number of opponents in the Riigikogu is decreasing and the number of supporters is increasing, which is certainly very good. The draft provides for a certain transitional period, now proposed in the draft, until 2023, although the initiators will certainly be prepared to negotiate in this regard as well, how long this transitional period should be, but the objectives are indeed very similar to those of other European countries to end this cruel way of producing clothing. In the 21st century, animals should not be kept in inhumane conditions in order to wear them. Furthermore, there is no doubt that the significant environmental impact that fur farms have due to the release of chemicals into the wild, as well as the risk of alien species for naturally occurring species, cannot be overlooked. As a new risk, in many parts of Europe, some fur animals are passed on to coronavir. So we have another argument for closing this sector of industry that has already almost disappeared in Estonia once and for all, with a transitional period. We hope that there will be more supporters in the process of dealing with this draft. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U9	Thank you. I have adopted four draft laws and one inquiry. The Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now there's a message. Honourable Riigikogu! Since today is the last session of the spring session, you will be asked to bring personal items from your tables and drawers after the end of the session. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 77 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present; no 24.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U10	First of all... Hey! [[It's ringing the bell.]] Firstly, the third reading of the draft law 185 on the amendment of the laws on family benefits initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws is on the agenda. Priit Onion, please! There are speeches on behalf of the political groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been on this bill for the fourth time, and I thought I would like to say something for myself, because on previous occasions I have represented the Commission. With this draft, we will remember that we will first lose the problems of changing family benefits and other laws, where in the meantime things have been lost, so that the children who graduated from primary school were left behind when they went to the next school, either vocational school or upper secondary school, without child support in the summer. That is never the point of the legislator, so we will restore its support. Secondly, the idea that the accounting period for parental benefit goes from two and a half years to three years came from the Ministry. As we know, the parent can spend up to three years at home on parental leave in Estonia, in this sense it is reasonable that this period should also move from two and a half years to three years. The two-and-three-year range is the natural range in which most children are born in Estonia compared to either the first children or the so-called other time gaps. At second reading, a good colleague, Jürgen Ligi, asked whether we discussed in the Commission that, if we constantly amend, edit and make them more flexible, would the needs of the labour market be taken into account. Then I referred to the fact that too much attention was not paid to this in the Commission. Of course, each draft must be viewed from as different points of view as possible, because then we will get the best possible result, but there is a clear need for more children to be born in Estonia in relation to the labour market needs of this draft. This is the first view we drew attention to when this proposal came and what was said in the Commission. More children should be born in Estonia. Well, we all know that having kids, like I said last time, isn't too easy. Since life is complicated and paced, first of all, it is not very good if pregnancy occurs and children are born very sequentially. Second, whether we always succeed in having a child when we want to. In our family too, the birth gap between the last children is less than two years and six months. Maybe we fit into this legal space now, but I have to admit it's pretty close. During the crisis, there was quite a lot of talk about idyllicism that people could look at each other, share love, etc. But at the moment that you have two children at home in school, one in kindergarten, one in a manger, and one in a baby, it's not as simple as the newspaper's articles. I don't think we need to show things in the family any more beautiful than it is. We need to talk about reality and think about how to help and support families. One thing I am frustrated about, including the period when the people of our party have carried this ministerial portfolio, I think of the Minister of Social Affairs in this Chamber for the third time this week, that children should be born more and that we try to help to make it possible, it is sad that, at the level of executive power, it has never been considered necessary, through the history of independence, to campaign to support parenthood, to support the number of children's births, to show families in a 'positive' context. Nothing like that. But we all know that childhood is fun and sensible when a child has playmates and children can play together. That is why we are here with this bill and we hope to adopt it today: so that successive children can be born. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U12	Jürgen Ligi, I understand to be a reply because the name was mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U13	Yes, thank you! My name sounded, but in one ugly connection. Priit Sibul gave me concern that the mothers of the young child would not meet the needs of the labour market or the needs of the labour market, as was his wording. I said, on the contrary, that women should not be forced to stay away from work, which hurts them. And, of course, there was a different story about it, as if the world had now begun with Riina Solman. In fact, the country has already had various family campaigns before it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U14	Helmen Kütt, on behalf of the Social Democratic Group, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U15	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I'll take eight minutes, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U16	There's going to be an extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U17	Thank you. Good fellows! Today's draft law, i.e. the amendment of the Family Benefits Act and the related amendment of other laws Act 185, is necessary. It certainly improves the livelihood of families and children. I would also like to say in advance that the Social Democrats will vote in favour of this draft. While the draft, even at first reading on 20 May, had been relatively technical, only a number of aspects were changed, which, with amendments to the various laws, had caused confusion or a variety of interpretations, the letter of the Minister for Population arrived on 2 June with a request to introduce a number of new aspects into the draft. The most important of these are the extension of the protection period for successive births of parental benefit from two and a half years to three years and the reduction of the waiting period for maintenance aid from four months to one month. Very correct and necessary changes. The Committee on Social Affairs worked in broad agreement with the amendments as well as with the suspension of reading on 9 June and then with the revised draft, which became substantive from the technical draft, on 16 June. I will be honest with you that the members of the Social Affairs Committee of all political parties were prepared for long sessions and were prepared to meet, if necessary, for additional sessions. Special thanks also to the good officials of the Committee on Social Affairs, in particular Heidi Barot, in the case of this draft, thanks to which several or several amendments have already been properly corrected in previous laws. The working atmosphere was very pleasant. Hopefully, for the fourth time today, the bill in the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu will become a law for all of us, and some of the amendments will apply on 1 July. What makes me sad and why I came to speak is that I was surprised at the Minister's comment on Sunday when, together with the journalist, they were worried about whether the Riigikogu would still be able to make two readings in one week, even though it was already known on Friday and to see that both second and third readings were on the agenda. Secondly, it is said that a good crisis must not be wasted. On the grounds of the Corona virus, the Minister for Population also came to the Social Affairs Committee with these important but certainly very substantive changes. Of course, the Commission did its best, and today these proposals will also become a law, but in fact these amendments could have reached the Social Affairs Committee already in autumn last year and this law could have come into force from 1 January, six months earlier. To date, the issue of maintenance is also unresolved. If we have three ministers who deal with families, including maintenance and maintenance support, are very important for families, we have a Minister for Social Affairs, we have a Minister for Population, and we have a Minister for Justice as well as the Minister of Justice as regards maintenance and maintenance, it would be very nice if the maintenance could get rid of the tied minimum wage, and the procedure for determining the livelihood that has been discussed at a very long time would finally reach the tables of the Riigikogu Social Affairs Committee and then also the large hall. The reduction in the waiting time for maintenance support is excellent. But the problems of living, especially in a difficult situation such as the corona virus, which is difficult for the economy, and the difficulties still to come for these families, are either the unemployed parents who raise children or the people paying for the child's livelihoods definitely in a situation where the high workload of the courts is increasing, because people are turning to court to amend the decisions that have already been amended or to amend the decisions that have been put in place. Unfortunately, there are no measures for these families either in the crisis package or in the form of additional support. But these kids need food and clothes every day. Finally, the Minister for Population promised in the Committee on Social Affairs, where I approached him in the proceedings concerning psychiatric assistance for the grant of the Act (115), that he would do and do his best, because he considers this amendment to be necessary. But unfortunately, it hasn't helped at the moment. I very much hope that the three ministers will discuss in the summer and come before the Riigikogu in the autumn with a draft concerning the determination and decoupling of maintenance from the minimum wage. Perhaps during the summer months, the coalition will also find an agreement on draft 115 and, according to the democratic state, the MPs will be able to show their minds, support or confrontation by voting in the large Chamber. Believe me, both the birth rate and the protection of children born and the creation of better opportunities for raising them are both very important. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U18	There has been no further wish for negotiation. Let us consider the negotiations to be concluded and prepare for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the proposal of the commission, I will make a final vote on 185 draft amendments to the Family Benefits Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, a draft amendment to other laws. Please take a stand and vote. 87 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U19	The next item is the draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Unemployment Insurance Act, number 206, its third reading. Speech on behalf of the political groups. Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U20	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Changes in the labour market are important and necessary. The world is developing faster, and the work forms and working methods are exactly the same. A person no longer goes to one job in the morning and leaves at five o'clock in the evening for weeks, months, and years in a row. People have many jobs, distance work, different contracts and different forms of contract. It is insufficient that we protect people in the context of the labour market only and mainly in situations relating to the Employment Contracts Act. We need to talk about self-employed people, members of the board of directors, contracts concluded under the law of debt, and people who are doing careers. The situation is different when we're used to it. For this reason, the Ministry of Social Affairs has for a long time prepared the necessary amendments to the scope, ordered an analysis from Praxis, and developed an intention to develop which, by the way, was completed last year. The crisis, which threatened and threatens the health of all of us, rushed from the Ministry. The planned law brought before the Riigikogu at the beginning of next year came before us considerably earlier. That's good in itself. But it also has a dark side of the law that reached earlier does not cover all the aspects that the Ministry was prepared for and was advised by scientists. I congratulate this law in the sense that it gives flexibility to the parties involved in the labour market. Job breaks during the period of unemployment, the "schedule" of unemployment, working in the meantime and then returning to the period of unemployment again, all for 12 months. It is certainly positive, it is stimulating the economy, it gives people the opportunity to participate actively in the labour market, to stay there and not to be discouraged and eventually to become long-term unemployed. We argued in the Commission about how many days a month a person can work during unemployment. Five working days were offered in the draft; the Reform Party offered ten working days. Compromise is eight. Eight is better than five, it's better than nothing. In this sense, I am pleased that this flexibility came into the law. But the other half of this bill is about people's livelihood during the unemployment period, or the specific amount of money that will be received in the bank account. True, our unemployment benefits are rather low. This has been suggested by Praxis and also by the Ministry of Social Affairs to raise them, but in the case of lifting, we must always bear in mind that it is being raised at the expense of something. We have many problems in the country that need to be resolved and additional resources. We have heard here about the needs of the health system, about the need for teachers, about the need for rescuers, and these are all those people who were at the forefront during the crisis and were doing hard work for all of us. That is why it may make sense, as the Ministry of Social Affairs wanted to start working in five days, to start sparingly and with a view to our economic stability, not by raising everyone now and much, but by raising people's woes when they are the greatest. And the biggest problem is when the economy is in a bad state. It was also a proposal by the Reform Party that we really raise unemployment insurance benefits only if people find it difficult to find work when jobs are scarce and people's incomes have fallen significantly. The Reform Party will vote in favour of this draft. We don't mind... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U21	Extra time requested. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U22	... but we call on both the government and colleagues to move forward with these issues in this Chamber, then in the autumn, to see how we can help those who have left the job of their own accord, who have acted under the debt treaty, who are self-employed or board members, and what good and sensible solutions are for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U23	Priit Sibul on behalf of the Isamaa Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank my colleague Jürgen Ligi once again from this remote control. Jürgen helped me remember what I knew before, namely that the world did not begin to become Minister of Population of Riina Solman. The world could not begin even when parental benefits were created, one of whose authors and initiators is indeed Jürgen. Even then, the world didn't start. I am familiar with the story of the beginning of the world recorded in the Bible. Maybe somebody's doubting it, somebody might like the big bang theory, but that's what we can argue about sometime next time. So much for the previous draft and the debate. But now from the current bill. On this draft, I dare to assume, 'think and understand': in both the Ministry and in our committee, we understood that the primary aim of changes in the labour market and changes in legislation is for people to return to the labour market as soon as possible. This flexibility and the measures that we have taken are primarily designed to prevent people from losing interest in the labour market and work and from returning there as soon as possible. This also increased the opportunity for the work programmes proposed in the draft, in which we reached a reasonable compromise within the Commission, as Signe said. Unemployment benefit is increased. We know that it was even a desire to raise it a little higher, but here we have to find a balance, and I think we in the Commission found a balance that would prevent a person from giving up his or her property and lifestyle at the first moment of unemployment and that he or she would have the fastest possible interest and the desire to return to the labour market. As we know, there have also been such ideas that people can start receiving compensation if they leave work voluntarily. It will remain a debate for the future, but in its current form, our unemployment insurance system is still designed to provide support for those people who lose their jobs, not for those who are still thinking about what could still be done and done in life. So the Fatherland supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U25	Lauri Western Forest, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U26	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, While this is about improving history, I will start with this parental benefit issue. Not Jürgen Ligi was the author of this idea, but was still Katrin Saks. Jürgen Ligi was the promoter. Let's be precise. But now from the current bill. There are different visions of why all these labour market measures and unemployment insurance benefits exist. I'm sure you can look at it so that people should go to work as soon as possible, but maybe it's even more important to look at the side that if a person doesn't do well, he doesn't fall into poverty, so that no one loses what he's created in his life, for things that may not be within his power. For example, a recession that takes a person's job. People should certainly have the opportunity to choose their own jobs, not so that they are forced to take the first job right away, which may not be well paid or qualified or enable the individual to exercise himself. This law is certainly not, in the eyes of us social democrats, a law that only has to push people to work. The law itself, however, is very important. It is good that these changes have reached this Riigikogu. However, we have a question as to why only half of the work has come to us, which was more or less completed in the ministry a long time ago, and which the Minister spoke of with a very clear voice, promising that all things will come. Somewhere that stuff stopped. I understand they stayed in the government. That's too bad. I hope the government finds strength and strength in the warm sun this summer and still brings the rest of the important things to this big hall. If we think that when this 'health crisis' came in Estonia, it was a crisis for the state or society, the government was able to act very quickly and react very quickly. But unemployment is also a crisis for every person, and it is a crisis for that person's family. If you are no longer able to continue the way you have done so far, you may not be able to pay your home loan, your family's well-being will be put at risk and all these things. I think it is not just necessary to look at this country, by the state, but to us should still be the most important person, every person. And according to that logic, there should have been important things in this package that were left out here at third reading today. For example, the possibility of receiving unemployment benefit on a voluntary basis in the event of termination of a contract of employment. I have one good and interesting example to give here. We've been contacted by a gentleman who drives a taxi, he's a taxi driver. There was a crisis, he couldn't work anymore, there was nothing he could do. He was the owner and manager of such a proper private limited company, so he had made all the necessary contracts with him, paid unemployment insurance contributions, and now he should have had the opportunity to receive compensation, but to do so he should have ended his employment with either redundancy or somehow. But since he was the only owner, i.e. the only member of the board, and he had a contract of employment with himself, he could not concentrate himself because the board member could not disappear from the company. The man had done exactly what was written in the law, but the money he had paid was not received his insurance. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U27	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U28	Of course, in addition to this example, there are a great many people who, in reality, do not leave on their own free will but sign the contract of termination of employment without knowing that if they finally go to the Unemployment Insurance Fund, they will be told that they will not receive compensation. I think it's a very important thing. Another important thing is the increase in unemployment benefit. After all, this is a specific measure that prevents people from falling into poverty. And if we are willing to take action on the money collected by people as early as August, for some reason where the state must contribute through unemployment benefit, we will discuss in January. I don't understand why. If there is a crisis in these people, it is not possible to bring in an additional budget and find these amounts. The amounts that have so far been mobilised in this crisis, the amounts that are needed, are very small. The thing that the Minister talked about very much, but which has also not reached us, is, for example, the obligation of the self-employed to pay unemployment insurance contributions. Because, as we have seen, very many self-employed people were immediately in difficulty when economic activity stopped. Let's just say that there's a numerical side of this half-up here, but the things that help people get through the crisis and the recession, so in the meantime, they don't run out of compensation and they don't fall into poverty, they're kind of stuck. The Social Democrats support this bill, but we expect all the things that are allowed, and all the things that we have talked about, to be in this big hall as soon as possible. And I'm sure we'll help with that from our side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U29	Thank you very much. Jürgen Ligi, the word for reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U30	Thank you. For young historical enthusiasts, I say, because my name resonated here several times, that the idea of parental compensation was very different from what you said as an alternative. The idea of the Sots was exactly maternity pay, equal for everyone. Our idea was to maintain income at the most delicate time. These are very different things, so please don't confuse them. Who exactly is the author? There really is no single author, there is a collective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U31	The negotiations on this draft have been concluded. We have the commission's proposal for a final vote on the draft 206. Let's get ready for this. [[It's a saalikutsung.]] Honourable colleagues! I am voting on the draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act 206, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 82 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U32	We will look at the next item, this is the draft Act 143 on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Persons with regard to the automated processing of personal data initiated by the Government of the Republic, and we will begin with its second reading. I would like to ask Paul Puustusmaa, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to wait here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U33	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable colleagues! I am pleased to be before you at 143 second reading and to say that, in a sense, it is symbolic, because it is the last report of this session. Perhaps I really would have liked this last presentation and the last bill that we are creating or voting on here together to have been such a strong world-view debate, but I have not been given the opportunity to do so. I am here before you with a very technical question and, even more importantly, with a question whose sole aim is the question of uniform application of European Union law and some normative modeling. So, before you is the second reading of bill 143, which is the draft act ratifying the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Persons with regard to the automated processing of personal data. The purpose of this draft is to protect the privacy of a person with regard to the automated processing of personal data. The Convention was opened for signature, as we know, in 1981. Estonia has joined it. This protocol will only ratify certain amendments. As I have already said, this is due to the development of legal relations, and just normative modernisation is necessary. The Government of the Republic of Estonia initiated the draft on 10 February 2020, the first reading took place in plenary on 3 June. The deadline for tabling amendments was 5 June, including: No amendments were received, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs prepared the draft for a second reading at its meeting on 9 June 2020, where the only decisions were made, all of which were purely procedural. Because of the scan, I'm going to repeat who was there. The committee was chaired by me, with the members Kalle Grünthal, Kaja Kallas, Erkki Keldo, Mr Hanno Pevkur, Mr Siim Kiisler, Mr Andrei Korobeinik, Mr Lauri Läänemets, Mr Martin Repinski and Mr Taavi Rõivas as alternate members of the committee. When I had reported on the general content of this bill and said that there were no amendments, not even from the Members of the Commission, we went to the procedural decisions. These were the following: first, we decided to put the draft on the agenda today by 18 June (this was a consensual decision), and we proposed a final vote on the draft (this decision was also consensual). Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U34	Thank you very much, dear waitress. Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions? There are no questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U35	Thank you, all of you, for this lovely year!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-18_U36	Is there a desire to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments to the draft were tabled. We have the commission's proposal for a final vote on the draft 143. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote in the final vote on the draft Act 143 on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Persons with regard to Automatic Processing of Personal Data, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 73 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law. The sitting is adjourned. On behalf of the board, I want everyone to work hard and all summer. Work on the documents. See you in the fall. Closure of the sitting at 10.48 a.m.
