ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, Let's start our three-day briefing. Checking for presence first.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U2	There are 41 members of the Riigikogu and there are no 60 members. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of the Environment Rene Kokk and Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas. And, as usual, first of all, members of the Riigikogu who were previously registered will be able to ask the question. They will also have the opportunity to clarify the question, as well as one member of the Riigikogu from the hall. There are two minutes to ask the question and three minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U3	The very first question is asked by Kaja Kallas and answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U4	Thank you. Prime Minister! I think you know what this document is. This is the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. As a member of the government, you are probably well aware of this, or at least you should be. And you've also studied law. The Constitution is the basis of all laws. Now, the political leader of the government, Martin Helme, is forcing you to hold an unconstitutional referendum. This has also been confirmed by the Chancellor of Justice that, in the way you intend to hold a referendum, it is unconstitutional. My question: which is more important to you, whether, at any cost, to submit to the will of Martin Helme and push through this unconstitutional referendum or the same constitution to which we have all sworn our allegiance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U5	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! I don't quite understand, the honourable Kaja Kallas is always like this, I would say, derogatory, intimidating, ironic attitude. I remember that when Mr Henn Põlluaas was elected Chairman of the Riigikogu, the Reform Party did not want to use the words 'Chairman of the Riigikogu' but spoke about the chairman of the meeting. Well, "political leader Martin Helme" very nice thoughts, don't you think? I don't think it's gonna do you much honor, but of course it's up to you. I am not in favour of any referendum, which is a point contrary to the Constitution. Point two: today, other authorities are also having a very serious debate on this issue. And I am grateful to Urmas Viilma, I am grateful to the Chancellor of Justice and to everyone else who has dealt with this issue and has sent, as far as I am aware, more specific questions. They've been answered. There has never been a debate in the government, and you are referring to the so-called draft that the EKRE has sent to the coalition partners, there has never been a debate that a referendum must be held specifically on this issue and on this draft. I am entirely of the opinion that I am not in any way in favour of putting such an unconstitutional question into a referendum, even proposing to the government that we should take such a decision. These matters still need to be discussed first, thoroughly discussed. And once again, everyone who is willing to think along, including you, Mrs Kallas, is only commendable and good. So, of course, we need to find a solution that is in line with the rule of law and which is also constitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U6	Echo Kallas, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U7	Thank you. Can your answer then be a confirmation that you are not going to hold a referendum that asks for an opinion on the Constitution, but that you are making a referendum on the Constitution in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Constitution, that is, you are asking for the approval of three fifths of the members of the Riigikogu to put such a question to a referendum? And if this question doesn't work, are you ready for an emergency election? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U8	Thank you. Well, on your question, they sounded like "if" and "if" and "if" I don't know how many times you mentioned it. I will certainly stick to my position that I do not ask for the support of the Government, the support of the Riigikogu or the support of my group on issues where analyses show that they are in conflict with the Constitution. This is not acceptable in any way. You know this very well, Mr Kallas, that the law and the constitution provide an opportunity for a referendum on various issues, "other matters of state life." What you referred to, this three-fifths yes, that means that if this is a constitutional amendment, it requires three-fifths of support here in the Riigikogu. These questions can be put to a referendum that receives its three-fifths support. If we are to put other matters of state life to a referendum, there is no need for three fifths of support, but it must not be the basis for the amendment of the Constitution either. So these things have to go according to the law. Today is, in my opinion, the time to carry out these legal analyses. And as I said to you in reply to the previous question, I am really glad that many, including you, have taken a turn on this issue. I think it is a good thing that the Archbishop, Mr Viilma, has also come to ask, the Chancellor of Justice has given his position. [[There's laughter in the hall.]] I think these are very, very good and very correct debates, which aim to find the best way. I apologize for my awkwardness, but I don't understand why, when I'm talking about the Archbishop, for the second time, there's gonna be such a glaring, condescending laughter about the Reform Party. I guess it comes with it. It's just that I can't sense the reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U9	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U10	Thank you. Well, I don't know why they're kind of morally provoking stings. Perhaps we would still try to respond more substantially and focus on the subject in this Chamber. I actually found support in this first response, where you said that you would not support an unconstitutional referendum. That is actually what you said: 'Unconstitutionally, in such a way that this issue is non-bindingly put to debate or to express an opinion, you will not put it to the vote'. This is a big message for me, and I think it is also for the Estonian public. Not only has the opposition said that it cannot be resolved in accordance with the Constitution, as proposed by the EKRE or the Minister of Finance, to be precise. This has been said not only by the opposition but also by the Chancellor of Justice, who is certainly the authority on this matter. He considers that weight and that weight must be taken into account. When you answered the second question, I didn't understand what you were saying at all. There were no existences on the question of Kaja Kallas. Echo asked me very specifically. In your first reply, you said that you would not resolve this issue unconstitutionally. Can it be said that you are making this referendum in accordance with the Constitution, perhaps in a binding way? The Echo didn't actually get an answer to that. I'd like you to answer that. And I'd be happy if you could answer my original question. Are you aware of any political forces who, in the political reality of Estonia in 2020, threaten that marriage is a union between a man and a woman? Do you know any members of the Riigikogu or Estonian political parties who are in parliament and who say that marriage should not be a permanent union between a man and a woman? And if you don't know, the question is, what are you fighting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U11	First of all, I wouldn't be as powerful as Mr. Clothes, if you say we don't understand at all. I remember, years ago, we have had a match, perhaps not so much at the national level, but at the local level we have tried to do things together and some have even succeeded. Now, from what your party chairman asked, asking too, if this goes through, will you step back and so forth? You can, I don't know, plan ten years in advance. But what I want to say is: yes, if you put the amendment to the Constitution or the question that changes it to a referendum, you are right, it must be binding. As far as I know, this can be put to the vote with a minimum of three fifths of the votes of the Riigikogu. If this is not the case, I think the answer is there, then the fact that changes the constitution cannot be put to a referendum. That is what I said to you very specifically. Now whether anyone has actually brought on the table of the Riigikogu an amendment to the family law on marriage between a man and a woman. I don't know that. I support the fact that marriage is between a man and a woman, as stated today in the Estonian Family Law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U12	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U13	Let's go to the next question: question number two. It will be presented by Kalvi Tõvi and will be answered by the Minister of the Environment Rene Chef. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U14	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! I dare say that the forest is an integral part of the life of all Estonian people. Whether they are going to the forest to get an emotional charge, or they want to make bread for their families or work in a company that deserves timber. And that is why I dare to believe that the forestry development plan is one of the most important sectoral development plans in Estonia at all. Here in the Riigikogu Saalisk and even in the Riigikogu, we have been waiting for this forestry development plan. But a little bit, perhaps as an outsider or as seen in this hall, it seems that the Ministry has completely failed in this regard, but it has not been possible to prepare forestry development plans. And now in the ministry, perhaps you're trying to hide your failure with a technical trick, extending the existing plan. In fact, this cannot be considered a normal process; it affects so many people in Estonia. My question is, why don't you explain what's going on with this, and what's the Ministry planning to do? What do you have to say for yourself?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U15	Honourable Chairman! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! I would like to begin by stating a few figures that relate to Estonia's felling volumes at all. This topic, as you mentioned, is really very important both for us and for all the people of Estonia who live here, as well as for our forestry sector. In recent times, however, this very one-way approach has become prevalent, which rather denigrates the people who are involved in forestry and try to justify why the situation is what it is. Since the talk has only gone to felling volumes, I would like to mention some numbers that do not have the cutting volumes that have been fixed in the various forestry development plans that have been adopted by the Riigikogu. The forestry development plan, which was adopted for the period 2010 to 20200, where we are now, fixed a sustainable felling volume of 12 to 15 million cubic metres. If you look back today, the average felling volume for the last ten years has been 10.7 million cubic metres, which is considerably lower than the specialists and forest management plan makers considered acceptable at that time. If you go back to an earlier period and look at the development plan, which lasted until 2010, it was considered to be an optimal annual felling volume of 12,6 million cubic metres. However, during the period in which it was in force, 2001 and beyond, the volume of felling was, according to statistics, 7.2 million. So, first of all, I want to take those fears out of everyone who's watching this briefing today. This is not true, which is always said: that everything in Estonia is very bad with the forest, much more is cut than it grows in the forest. That's not true. Now I come to the argument that the Ministry of the Environment has failed and we are somehow trying to hide something. Well, I should be very naive if I thought I could come here and do something secret about extending the operational forestry development plan. Once again, I assure you that I do not think that the Minister of the Environment will take any decisions in his office alone and discuss matters with specialists. By the way, one of the suggestions made by the Forest Development Plan Steering Board on how to move forward from stalemate was to perhaps bring an extension of the current development plan to the Riigikogu. This has been discussed in the Ministry and I also went to the Committee on the Environment to talk about it. I said it was one of the possible solutions. It is possible that we will bring it to the Riigikogu for discussion and see how to proceed, but it is also possible that we will follow the Nature Conservation Act and not extend it. So there are different possible developments. I am also convened by the Minister for the Environment's Forestry Council to discuss the situation with them. The Council last met in 2018. As far as I know at the time, the decision was taken that, since the forestry development plan was so large, the forestry council simply did not consider it necessary, but I am calling it together again.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U16	Hard, more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U17	Thanks! I'm not even going to those cutting volumes, although that's also a topic that could be discussed. But, as you say, it is often the cutting volumes that are going down and maybe they'll get stuck there. But here's my question. As I recall, the ministry did this development plan, all bears and rabbits and wolves and mooses and were different variants, which are quite normal. Interest groups were involved. But what was behind the development plan? We did it for years, it's not a couple of months process, it's going on for years. What's it got to do with it not finally finished?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U18	Thank you. The development plan is in this phase today that we have failed four times to find a strategic environmental impact assessment. Yeah, if I'd been as smart as I am today... I can say that we should have started this process earlier and made an international procurement to find it. But this feeling or decision, made earlier to search and find again the strategic reviewer of the forestry development plan, was due to the fact that the people of the Ministry of the Environment who are involved in this field have discussed the matter with the advisory board of environmental impact assessors in Estonia before purchasing. We've involved all sides. Every time it has been confirmed that we come to offer it, we have no reason to believe that this is going to go wrong, but every process, every procurement goes on again. Today, I've come up with the fact that now we have to make an international deal. Yes, I have heard in the past that let us not do yet that we still have confirmation that we will find the evaluator in Estonia. But now we are in a situation where we have not found an evaluator in Estonia, and the reason is that there is a lot of work, a very large amount of material, will not make it. And it is also of little importance that it is said that the pressure of society is so strong that we do not want to do so very much. Anyone who, in my opinion, tries to talk about forestry without emotions in this Chamber of the Riigikogu has also had people who have spoken and tried to talk without emotions, gets hit hard on social media. Unfortunately, this is not a minor aspect either.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U19	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The forest is undoubtedly of great value in both financial and socio-cultural terms. That's what these emotions are all about. One journalist asks the members of the Riigikogu whether we agree to the extension of the forestry development plan. I replied that I did not agree, because I believe that the development plan is an agreement on the future, not an extension of the past. We can't do that. But no doubt you're in a very difficult position, you have to make a very big deal. What is your plan when the government will be able to submit the development plan of Estonian forestry to the Riigikogu for approval? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U21	My honest answer to today's understanding is this. If I look at this process, submission to the government of KAK 20202030 will probably not be possible until October next year. Somewhere around here. It's an estimate. I can't tell you, but I'm starting with the period that potential environmental impact assessors have wanted today. It is just that the problem is that we have lost a lot of time because we have lost those procurements. But I am seriously saying that we had every reason to believe that we would have a participant in the procurement and we would find an evaluator. Today, as I said, we have conducted an international procurement. But I want to come back to these emotions. I am absolutely not contesting this. Forestry is something very emotional for us, Estonians are forest people. But the current attitude towards forestry is no longer normal. Both social media and, unfortunately, certain media publications call for an attack on foresters, call for persecution, place on Facebook the phone numbers of RMK's driver and the numbers of other people, such as scientists, whose opinion is not suitable for one or another radical party. It's not okay. I work all the time to keep this discussion calm and with as few emotions as possible. I totally agree that emotions go into it, but we should not go so far as to go personal and call for an attack on scientists and people who are involved in forestry just because nobody likes it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U22	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U23	Let's go to question number 3, which Urmas Kruuse is asking. He'll be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Prime Minister! Martin Helme has said in this hall that his farmers don't believe in tears. When the COVID crisis began in Estonia and the emergency situation was announced, so many in this hall and elsewhere in society, also agricultural organisations said that if the country restricts the ability of foreign workers to work in Estonia during this season, the crops will remain in the field. In the long dialogues that we held here in Parliament, you promised us, as well as the representatives of the gardening organisations, that it was a matter of your heart, that no strawberry would remain in the field and no cows would be milked. Everything that has actually been predicted has happened today, and the government has behaved quite the opposite of the other European countries which, from the very beginning, agreed health rules on how to bring outside workers to seasonal work. Representatives have sent the Minister for Rural Affairs a wish in August to receive compensation for the government's inaction and compensation for the damage caused to the fields. It's estimated to be somewhere near 4.7 million. Please tell me how you look into the eyes of strawberry farmers and other farmers today, and what is your message to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U25	Thank you, good questioner. What kind of tears are we talking about? In recent years Estonia's agricultural sector has been supported by the state very much, solutions have been found to very complex issues. I am talking about harmonising direct payments in the European Union, this is a solution that has not been found for years. For years there wasn't a chance, it's been found today. You also know that 2022 is the year in which there is real harmonisation of direct payments between the Baltic States and other countries of the European Union: it is a minimum of EUR 200 per hectare. You're saying we haven't dealt with agriculture. But the first extra budget was given, if I'm not mistaken, 200 million more to the MES. This is directly linked to the rural issue, and very broadly also to agriculture. Yes, I agree that the issue of third-country workers could not be resolved immediately, was an interim solution to extend their presence in Estonia until the end of July. And then the solution came. Could have come more quickly, it required negotiations, but it came. Putting your question back into this whole government like a corner and saying that you haven't done anything in my opinion it's a very wrong attitude. It's not the right attitude, it doesn't fit. Speaking of the application you were talking about, here's what we're talking about. On 7 August 2020, the Estonian Gardening Association has addressed the Ministry of Rural Affairs with a proposal to compensate strawberry growers for the damage caused by the crisis caused by the COVID-19. The Ministry of Rural Affairs has met several times, as far as I know, on 15 July and 18 August, with representatives of the Gardening Association, the Association of strawberry growers, the Estonian Agricultural Chamber and the Estonian Farmers' Confederation to discuss the losses of strawberry cultivation this year. At its meeting on 15 July, it was decided that the Gardening Association and the strawberry growers' association would carry out a survey of strawberry growers to assess the losses of strawberry growers. On 7 August, the Gardening Association presented the results of the survey to the Ministry of Rural Affairs. Twenty-five strawberry growers answered the survey, with a production area of about 250 hectares. According to the results of the survey, this year, the strawberry growers missed 65% of their harvest, and the Gardening Association proposed an area-based compensation measure of EUR 4,76 million, as you said. At a meeting on 18 August with representatives of the Gardening Association, the strawberry growers' association, the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Trade and the Estonian Farmers' Confederation, it was agreed that since the information provided was not sufficient to assess the damage, additional information would be collected from strawberry growers. Now time's up, we'll move on to the next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U26	Thank you. Looks like Mr. Kruus will specify... However, the question to be specified is entirely there. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U27	Thank you. Prime Minister! The harmonisation of grants has also been ongoing in the previous period. That's where you're clearly wrong. But you're referring to the Minister for Rural Affairs. We had the Minister of Rural Affairs on the Commission this week. And when we asked specifically what the sums were going to be paid out, he didn't know what to say. He was relatively dissatisfied, suggesting that he had little interest in dealing with it. But actually I want to keep asking you that Tanel Kiik said on 2 June that there is no health problem and health risk for Ukrainian workers. If the government had wanted to decide on 2 June that it could bring in foreign workers, today we would not have 104.7 million problems. The sadness is that we are discussing paying out taxpayers' money because the government made a mistake. But my question is based on the words Ülle Madise said yesterday. I quote him, he refers to the expulsion of Ukrainian workers. "However, we have explained that, for example, the expulsion of Ukrainians who allegedly violated the conditions of isolation here, without the possibility of recourse to the courts and of obtaining an independent judgment is contrary to §§ 9 and 15 of the Constitution. " And it needs supervision. These sanctions and actions that you have taken against strawberry growers and foreign workers are clearly in conflict with the Constitution, as Ülle Madise specifically says when talking about these outside workers. Please tell me that this was a political spite, the agenda leader of which was EKRE, was Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U28	Thank you. I shall proceed first with the answer to the first question. It ended by collecting additional information from strawberry growers. Strawberry growers have provided further information for the purpose of assessing the losses. As far as I am aware, the Ministry of Rural Affairs, this is my knowledge of today's history, and it is currently analysing the data that they have re-submitted. And certainly, when the Minister for Rural Affairs is done with this analysis, he wants to come to the government with this proposal, and I am certainly not against it. So let's wait until he gets his job done in his ministry and then makes a decision in his field. Now let's move on. You say that if it had been decided on 2 June, you quoted the Minister of Social Affairs. That good Minister Tanel Kiik said no problem with the infection. I answered your first question, so yes, it could have been solved faster. I accept that. But that's the solution. This required a bit longer negotiations, a buffer period was made until the end of July, and the problem was solved. True, a solution was found with confidence measures. And now this whole other half of your question, it's very dangerous for me. It's very dangerous for me! I read here, Mr Kruuse, that you and, I don't know, the Reform Party in general, but I hope that you do not want political forceful interference in the activities of the Police and Border Guard Board and in the activities of the Health Board. I find it very dangerous if a member of the Riigikogu demands it. So... I'm sure the number was sent out I could be wrong about a little less than ten people, or let's say a dozen. This was the first wave of third-country workers. Then there was a big problem in society: it was said that it was political expulsion, etc. I, too, have spoken to both the minister and the head of office on this issue, asking them what the reason was. It was, as far as I know, the decision made between the Health Board and the PBA that there has been a breach of the confidence measures put in place for these workers. And they're very specific. These workers were told what to do within 14 days. They were not allowed to work, and they had to stay in their homes. I've never heard anyone say, politically, send them out. Yes, of course there was a raid and further checks. Throughout Estonia, people who are positive or close to COVID-19 are checked at random. But what I'm reading here is that you're saying that we should have gotten involved in the work of the PBGB and the Health Board somehow. I'm sorry, Mr. Kruuse, but no way! This was the joint work and decision of these agencies. Do I trust that decision? Yeah, I trust that decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U29	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U30	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! I almost started by thinking that you were sincere when you said about strawberry farmers and other farmers, that it was your heart, so that no strawberry would be left in the field and no cow would be milked. But your answers were that I'm skipping this part. I have a close message here with farmers complaining about the same thing Urmas Kruuse referred to: the bitterest at the time, at the time of the harvest, they were completely unusually, unprecedentedly burdened with the tax administration, the Health Board, the Police and Border Guard Board. And that's when they were supposed to be hanging on the phone, looking for labor. They sense it as a spite. And if you're talking about political interference, that's what this is about. They've heard Martin Helme say in the big crowd that since there were some kind of anti-Ekre speeches, you're not getting anything. According to several people, the Minister of Finance said exactly that. Mart Helme just gave a big speech at a party event where he said that all these numbers didn't match and they didn't get anything. I have no precise text in front of me, but I read it very carefully. Tell me now, put together this matter of your heart and these words: tell me, don't you really think, as Prime Minister, that you are a little lost in solving this issue. Your ministers are doing a completely different thing, contrary to what has been your kind of sincere words. They bully farmers with political motives. I'm sure we don't contact any office here, point the finger at it, but these two ministers have done it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U31	Thank you, Mr. Ligi. I don't even know where that wish to have a debate comes from. In fact, as skilled politicians, you go into them so strongly, so strongly, that I think, in the end, you are seriously hurting the good people who are strawberry growers working in the gardening industry. Point one. Point two. I believe that you are actively communicating with Estonian entrepreneurs, including strawberry growers, farmers. I'm communicating too, I'm actively communicating too. There have been strawberry growers who have told me personally that they can handle it. There have also been strawberry growers who have said no, they cannot cope; they actually needed foreign labour when there was strawberry picking when the strawberries began to ripen. As I said, a certain temporary solution was made until the end of July. Yes, a decision on third-country workers could have come faster, but that decision came. It required certain negotiations, but the decision came. But the decision came with confidence measures, and not only for strawberry growers, but for the entire sector, which uses the workforce of third countries. And that decision is also on the table today, it is still valid. Of course, these rules must be observed. Today we are talking about a large rise in the wave of the virus, so I think that your accusation that one or the other minister, like your claim, has sent certain Estonian authorities to carry out checks during the fastest working hours, I don't know. Then this statement should be made clear to the end, how it has been. Have they given their orders? Well, this order cannot be given in a democratic country, so go check it out now, this one or this one. The inspections are ongoing, the authorities in Estonia have been created for this purpose and they are doing this work, I believe, mostly in a very professional and committed manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U32	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U33	Next, in line, question 4. It's presented by Katri Raik and answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U34	Good President! Good Prime Minister! I quote the words of Louis Freeh from the interview "New News" given yesterday at the Riigikogu premises: "Putin was my counterpart from the FSB when I was the director of the FBI. I know most top officials in Russia, and they know me. " Doesn't that sentence make you cautious? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U35	Thank you. No, I don't appreciate that in detail. I understand you've learned the whole life story of Louis Freeh. It's not bad. There's an interest in a citizen of the United States, and that's great. I will address the issue of Louis Freeh" from the point of view of money laundering, which has been very difficult for Estonia. There will be new and new news, which has taken place in 2008-2015, and I think that the government needs to get more and more concrete, clearer, stronger anti-money laundering issues here. More and more, it seems that, for some reason in 2008-2015, this was not politically desired, and was avoided. What you asked about Louis Freeh' whether he knows anyone or doesn't know anyone, well, I haven't studied his family tree and his circle of acquaintances. It's none of my business to investigate. It is my business to know that these agreements would have been concluded correctly in our rule of law, in compliance with different laws and requirements. One issue in this regard is the issue of conflict of interest and their bureau can assess whether or not they have a conflict of interest in this case. It's appreciated that it isn't. I haven't met Louis Freeh. I understand you met Louis Freeh at that joint meeting of the special committee, if I'm not mistaken. I guess you could ask those questions. I did not attend the joint meeting of the special committees, but I believe you could ask these questions. If, thanks to this meeting, you have the knowledge that he said yes, there is a conflict of interest, please say so. I have not received any letters from this Riigikogu, which says that Louis Freeh has acknowledged that he has a conflict of interest. I'm relying on the official letter I have right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U36	Katri Raik, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U37	Good Prime Minister! In March, there was a memorandum on the government's desk that said that the best legal aid agreement should be obtained from the three selected offices, which would concern the collection of money laundering fines. Unfortunately, Finance Minister Martin Helme lied or was in a passport. I understand this is a very serious accusation. He knew at the time that there was one bidder left. Louis Freeh confirmed that he met Martin Helme in December 2019, several months earlier. They were talking about the content of this work. And other agencies have announced that they have a conflict of interest. When the State Department approached them, it turned out they'd been contacted before. This schedule is pretty thought-provoking. If you had been introduced to the memo of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which was announced in May, you might have had doubts when you read it carefully. My question is, did you have any doubts or were you even introduced to this memo? From this point of view, you can either trust the Minister of Finance or not trust him.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U38	Good Katri! I was honored to be in government with you, too. I trusted you as Minister of the Interior. I can't imagine how a prime minister in the government can work with one, another or third minister if he doesn't trust him. If he doesn't trust some people, there can be no cooperation. That's clear. That's point one. Point two, have I met or have I met? I'm familiar with both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Foreign Intelligence Service, I don't know, the short summary of analysis or assessment, whatever we call it. It's got the impression that both agencies have made some kind of 50-page summary, analysis. Well, there isn't! You know that. There are quite brief estimates from both authorities. You're asking if there's any doubt. In conclusion, we must assess in the government and I too must assess whether the conflict of interest has been removed from the judicial area where we operate here in Estonia and in the United States, or have not been removed. Today it's taken down by their own letter. The Minister of Finance has also taken the doubt that it is possible We really discussed in the office that we should make an agreement on this in the United States, but we didn't discuss who. I don't think it's a government matter with whom such law firm agreements are made. We discussed the principle, we discussed the need for a competition or a call for tenders. I understand three offices were negotiated. And the result is what the Minister of Finance thought was the best solution. We didn't decide in the government that you see, there are three companies or law firms that we choose. I continue to think that having a partner on the territory of the United States is essential to defend Estonia's interests. What is there to deny, far away, for us a complex, very complex system, including complicated legislation. We will not be exposed to this on a daily basis, and we will need a good partner there. This decision has been made by the Minister of Finance. And we are working to ensure that Estonia's interests are protected in the best way possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U39	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U40	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! I was at that meeting. We did not really have any intention of investigating Louis Freeh's conflict of interest in any way. We had all the work on Martin Helme's conflict of interest, but since he has already come, I will explain that you understand correctly. First, he confessed that Martin Helme already made him a job offer in December that he had accepted. So you were just fooled in the government at the end of March. You, too, said that there had been no mention of any offices at all, but at that point the offer had actually been made. And as far as this meeting is concerned, when it comes to conflicts of interest, which have not actually been our task, he said that he had a strong interest in Prevezon. He began defending this money laundering charge and the company that paid the fine, that, since it was a settlement procedure, there was no conflict of interest. You see, this is crazy. As a member of the government, as a party chairman, as a prime minister, you must not only trust but also control. But now my question. You're always making references to the past, like we can change it. Yesterday, the Chairman of the Management Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, whom I, by the way, approved, made this choice, an interview where he describes the difficulties that the Financial Supervision Authority has faced in preventing money laundering. It wasn't his basic function, he didn't have the right to study. But he said we finished Danske's business in 2014. Despite that, there are always charges. You personally have accused me of being responsible for money laundering by the chairman of the council. My question is, why don't you deal with the Home Affairs Ministers? And tell me, from which party these seven years, from 2007 to 2013-2014 were the ministers of the Interior who were in fact subject to the supervision of money laundering? Which party were they from, and why aren't you doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U41	Thank you. As I said, the Minister of Finance never once said at this meeting of the Cabinet that we are signing a contract with a particular company. Point one. If you have any information that this agreement, or this agreement, had been signed earlier, well, I have not been told by the Minister of Finance. He didn't inform the office about it either, but he agreed to find the best bidder. Now, you're saying this is crazy. I think it is very bad, in the fight against money laundering, that we do not share such a common position, even I would use a stronger term, to maintain the common front. I think that both you and I clearly understand that money laundering is very bad at any time, any year and on what day. In particular, it causes great reputational damage, which is causing a severe blow to our economy, to our businesses. Their desire to take risks, to take entrepreneurship, is automatically a very big hit. I actually say to you, Mr Ligi, that I do not think you and I are different in terms of this general principle: we must stand against money laundering. Now, you're very good at all this money laundering stuff, I'd say politically focused on this Freeh Treaty. In this sense, you must be given the highest consideration in the political world. All over Estonia, I think, money laundering has been forgotten, but very many Estonian people know Louis Freeh. When we come to what you're asking, who was the Minister of the Interior? Well, I understand where you want to push the focus. But if we could all of you, I, everyone else, say it's been, it's a bad thing, let's take this lesson into account and go on! That would be a pretty big deal, I think, especially a pretty big thing for our economy, for our country. And I'm ready for that. You're coming back to that year of 2014. Well, if you want to have this political fight, we can say what happened in 2008/2014. Then why didn't they do anything? Why is there no record of a government cabinet meeting that the money laundering issue was discussed in substance between 2008 and 2015? I say again: I think we could stop this political chemistry. We're gonna throw that dead dog on the other side of the fence. This could be stopped, and we could think about what we should do to make sure it doesn't happen again in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U42	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U43	Question number 5 will be asked by Madis Milling and answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! In recent weeks, much conflicting information has been broadcast concerning possible cuts in the defence budget as well as possible additional investments. Minister of Finance Martin Helme has stated in the media that the Ministry of Defence cannot manage to spend the defence budget and that every year, the money remains in excess of 20.50 million. At the extraordinary meeting of the National Defence Committee held on 16 September, Minister of Defence Jüri Luik confirmed that this is not the case. The apparent surplus is due to the fault of suppliers and to the conditions of the accruals budget. If the delivery hasn't been made, the money hasn't been transferred, and it's like the Department of Defense can't afford to spend the money. That's one. Secondly, Minister of Finance Martin Helme has argued in the media as if Estonia had framework agreements with which to purchase medium-distance anti-aircraft and anti-ship missile systems now and immediately. At the same meeting of the National Defence Committee, the Minister of Defence said that Estonia does not currently have such agreements. My question to you is: which one is lying, the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Defence?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U45	Thank you. I am not going to dissect you here, which one says in one committee and the other. I wasn't on that committee when you held that discussion. In fact, it is a pity: your committee could invite the Prime Minister more often, I would like to come to the National Defence Committee. I remember that the spring had been attended, very important serious debates were. True, that COVID came in, but I'd love to. I think this is the same example as money laundering. In my opinion, the Estonian political parties in this Chamber are no longer talking about whether the defence costs must be 2% in 2021. This, however, seems to me to have been a major breakthrough in Estonian politics. The fact that Estonia has complied with the 2% requirement for five or six years is a very big thing. I myself have participated not very much, but in NATO summits for a few years. This topic has actually been a topic of focus all along. And we have to admit that a few years ago, there were only four countries that contributed so much. At the time, there were 28-29 countries in NATO, but only a few contributed 2%. Today, this number, I think, is approaching 10. But the plans to reach 2% in the coming years are practically all countries, and this shows NATO's strength, shows NATO, in my opinion, good leadership, shows NATO's deterrence capacity. This shows that NATO is the strongest and best in the world in this sense. Now we come to Estonia's defence costs. First of all, the question of whether there is a risk that defence costs will go below 2%. No, I'm not! The truth is, we're so obsessed with this 2%, and we know that well with you what this percentage can actually become. The economic forecast of the Statistical Office may be revised three to four more times, if not five more times, afterwards. Sometimes things change from a few years ago. Now, next year, 2021. We have to take into account that I just watched with the Ministry of Finance's administration today, the most difficult economic crisis in the last 12 years, one might say. All the economies have fallen. Yesterday, I met with Finnish and Swedish colleagues, the same thing, the very severe economic crisis, the very bad economic situation. But I am working for it and I assure you, looking at you, that defence costs in Estonia continue to be high, defence costs continue to rise. When it comes to medieval air control and coastal defence, which has also been discussed, I think that both capabilities are important to Estonia, they must be. The question is when will we be able to fulfil these obligations? But I think that in this direction, where we can contribute more, we could move faster than slower. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U46	Madis Milling, more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U47	Thank you, President of the sitting. Prime Minister! I didn't get an answer to the question of who is lying, either the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Defence. But that's it. I will continue on the same subject. Minister of Finance Martin Helme has questioned in the media the competence of the Commander of the Defence Forces. Do you agree with that position of the Minister of Finance? If not, then the question is: do you consider it appropriate that the Minister of Finance questions the competence of the Commander of the Defence Forces? It is not the Minister of Finance who appoints the Commander of the Defence Forces, but the Government of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U48	Thank you. Today's government doesn't have a Band-Aid to change the Commander of the Defence Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U49	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! I heard from your previous answers that a government hearing should deal with different types of crime and receive weekly reviews. If I remember correctly from my experience in the government, then it is the case that if, for example, the Minister of the Interior does not bring such a subject on the table, it is very difficult to achieve that topic on the table. It's just a label of your response and logic. But listening to Martin Helme's various speeches on national defence and your answers today, it can be concluded that it is very clear why this resentment arose in public. Everyone understands that if GDP decreases and the budget as a whole decreases, it is not only about this 2%, but also about the absolute values that we must allocate to the construction of the Defence Forces in the long term. As a result, the Minister's statements on possible reductions in defence expenditure are not adequate and logical. But I wanted to ask you about it. Following this discussion in this Chamber, the question arose: Prime Minister, is the Minister of Defence Mr Jüri Luik now or Mr Martin Helme? This field of activity, which our polyfunctional, versatile Minister of Finance deals with, raises the question of whether he has questioned other ministers, as he questioned the competence of the Commander of the Defence Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U51	Thank you. I think this is a very serious debate that we are now going on with. But I understand you still have a desire to discuss this money laundering in 2008/2015. Let's talk, let's talk! For God's sake, let's talk! Now, your question is why the Minister of the Interior, who has money laundering under him, did not bring this matter to the government meeting. Why are you holding your head? That's what you asked, Mr. Kruuse. Yes, the Minister of Finance must also, in my opinion, engage in anti-money laundering activities. The Minister of Finance has been, and has been, the chairman of the Financial Supervision Authority Council today. You're saying crimes aren't discussed at the cabinet meeting. I can't say that! Different cases will certainly be discussed. Was it supposed to be discussing money laundering, such a wide range of topics back then? In my opinion, yes. I think that today and the previous government have discussed it dozens of times and done it very rightly. And we have not only discussed but also decided to give them more strength, come up with legislative initiatives, come up with stronger international cooperation. But once again, I don't think it's worth throwing that dog over the fence any more than I said. Let's go! But if you want to put this 2008/2015 thing back on the table, let's put it on the table, let's discuss it. In my opinion, this was not done politically enough at the time. Let's go. I reject the claim that Mr Helme, as Minister of Finance, has been saying in recent weeks when the government has dealt with the budget since the summer forecast: we are reducing defence costs. Really, at the meetings I've attended, I haven't heard that. I haven't heard a word of honor. We've been working on keeping 2%. You said it wasn't just a percentage, it was a nominal number. We have to ask what we're going to base the nominal number on. Whether we base the nominal number on today's GDP, whether we base the nominal number on the level of defence costs in 2020, or whether we base the nominal number on the country's budgetary strategy in 2019 and the national budget in the autumn, where the country's fiscal strategy was included. These are all different numbers. I am working today to ensure that we do not reduce investment in defence, not only in terms of percentage, but also in terms of amount. What we're getting out of here should be clear in the next few days. Who's the Secretary of Defense? I don't know, I understand that you have different positions in the group's room for different government members. I don't know who you've got. The Minister of Defence of the Republic of Estonia on 23 September 2020 is Jüri Luik.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U52	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U53	Let's go to the next question. This is question 6, which is asked by Ivari Padar and answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U54	Thank you. Prime Minister! The development plan for forest management is one serious work and it is a serious document that goes beyond question; it concerns 2.2 million hectares, or nearly half of Estonia's land area, which needs to be handled in a sensible way in both economic and ecological terms. In this case, this debate has become very difficult. Clearly, it is very difficult to understand where arguments end and where emotions begin. When I asked the Environment Minister in the spring how far this situation was, it was said at the time that it was difficult to tender for environmental impact assessments. In front of you, Mr. Prime Minister, there has been one of the greatest misfortunes. During this year, the new development plan will not be adopted, but will be extended. This has all happened before your eyes. I assume these things have been discussed in the cabinet. Here's my question. Is today's situation that satisfies me not only as a member of the opposition or a member of the Riigikogu, but also as a citizen of the Republic of Estonia, the activity of extending the previous development plan, has been applied and entered into the coalition agreement in some way secretly, or is it the failure of the Ministry of the Environment to carry out its tasks?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U55	Thank you, Mr. Padre. The subject is, of course, very serious, and I am completely in agreement with you in this respect, in economic terms, from an environmental point of view, from a biodiversity point of view, I say, even from a cultural point of view. A very, very important subject! Now, at the beginning of the question, I think you have highlighted one important nuance, and we must say this boldly, this is a positive direction. In Estonia, a little older than 100 years old, the percentage of forestedness has grown strongly and this is good. The percentages calculated at the time of the emergence of the country, at the beginning of the 20th century, were just over twenty. Now we say that the forestedness of Estonia is more than 50%, which is definitely a good direction. Yes, as the Minister for the Environment replied, we are certainly faced with a difficult problem when we are talking about a forestry development plan for the future. And we know, as I have also told you, that there are huge numbers of interest groups and that interests intersect very strongly. What should be done? I think that the extension of the current development plan could, in any case, be on the table, but certainly there should be a clear plan on the table how we will get to the next document. It is no secret that one of the major debates is actually about how we estimate the volume of felling, how we make cutting species, and what we put in statistics so-called when we measure the growth of the forest and the volume of felling. I think that I, too, have been working very hard on these forestry meetings over the last month-and-a-half. And indeed, there are completely different opinions. When it comes to the forest as our wealth in any way, it is approached in very different ways. These statistics, which I have been given to me, when we look at even only managed forests, we see today that the actual volume of felling does not exceed the growth data. But I agree with what the Minister for the Environment said that we need to move on to this issue. If necessary, we must also find external experts, and as soon as possible complete this plan, but not rush overboard again.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U56	Ivari Padar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U57	Thank you. As I understand from your response, this was not a government-driven activity, so that the previous development plan could be extended, but a failure of the Ministry of the Environment. Now, you're talking, and there's a lot of other people talking about the end of this thing, which is the volume of felling. But we've been looking at one thing here in a row on the root plane. Yesterday I had a very pleasant opportunity in the Committee on the Environment, of which I am not a member, by the way, to take part in a debate on forest statistics, where there were different parties on one side of the table and on the other side of the table. And the question in this case is, in my opinion, in the first stage of basic data and that we all had the impression, in the Committee on the Environment, that what concerns forest statistics, which in this case are dealt with by the Ministry of the Environment and its sub-offices, had been published on a random basis. We all received a very clear input in the Committee on the Environment that the methodology itself is considered to be correct, but how to further develop the methodology is a forum for discussion. I am very surprised why this debate has not taken place at the Environment Minister's desk, where we looked yesterday that yes, we have solutions somewhere. I also specifically asked these parties yesterday whether you and the Prime Minister had discussed this matter. The answer was no. So what are your actions to make progress with these basic data, its fundamental base? And has the Minister for the Environment, in the context of the budget for next year, come up with a proposal to increase these volumes and how to improve basic statistics and bring about important aspects, such as ecological aspects?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U58	Thank you. I don't know where you read it, but no, I haven't told you that the Ministry of the Environment or the Minister of the Environment has failed. You misread it, I'm going to disprove it. Point one. Point two is that I understand that your statement about yesterday's meeting is that you are saying that forest statistics are not correct by your senses. [[Ivar Padar comments from the floor.]] I don't know what to say. You said it had been published on a random basis. I have met quite a number of parties, and in terms of statistics, I have not had the impression that this would be wrong or that it would have been published at random. However, there are different concepts that are included and not included. I don't know if the Finnish people are counting in or not, so the others do. Are the gilts counted or not? Or at what point does the managed forest go into the statistics? When we say that it is the forestedness of Estonia, and then we take the cutting volume and see if the growing forest is in the majority or in the minority compared to the forest being cut, I think it has been a very big and fundamental dispute. Now, I don't know, I didn't even understand the question of who I've met. I have met a lot of people since the University of Tartu, the University of Life Sciences, the private sector, and I will continue to meet these people. I have received a letter in a good and very respectful sense from the so-called former foresters who have been working in this sector for decades, a letter has come from them. I'll meet their representatives in the near future. I've got an appointment. So I'm sure that's what we both, the Minister of the Environment and I, will be working on. I think it is very good that the Committee on the Environment will also continue to deal with this. But, in fact, I believe that you understand very clearly, as the Minister of the Environment said, I share his words that this is a hugely emotional subject. Without emotions, it's very difficult to talk about it, but we really need to talk about it. And I think we must also honestly say that, yes, in 2020, the Estonian forest, which in many ways was planted after World War II, will be ripened. In my opinion, this is also an environmental footprint issue. On the one hand, we say that the forest is binding CO2, but this forest, which has fallen, fell down, it is going to issue CO2. So I think it's a very complex subject. It is also true that it is very difficult to find a solution, but a solution must be found. So I am also working to help and support the Minister for the Environment fully, so that we can find the best opportunity for a new document as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U59	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U60	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Prime Minister! My question was motivated by your answer to the question of a good colleague. Does it not seem strange to you personally that we are still discussing today the correct forest statistics? You, too, are asking a hypothetical question that must be taken into account here. Although the development plan is by its very nature to be implemented, it should be based on statistics which provide an opportunity to compare whether the objectives set have been met, under-filled or over-filled. In his reply, the Minister for the Environment said that a possible solution could be reached by October-November next year. This so-called logging volume, which is also set out in the development plan, has been up and strained by society in general. And now the question arises: if it is delayed for so long and not dealt with more quickly, these tensions may grow again in society. Aren't you afraid of that? Shouldn't the Ministry of the Environment act faster and work harder to give a very clear message to society?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U61	Thank you. Yeah, I think on the one hand, it's the core of the cutting volume. That's what I said. I think this whole discussion is actually very much going on around it, let's be honest. But not just that. Here are the other parties to which I referred in my first reply to Mr Ivari Padar. I said that emotional sense is also very important here. Very often, it's nothing special at all. It's said somewhere in the conversation that you can see that another felling has come up. There's another clear-cut one coming up! It is also true that the approach has changed a little when compared to the time of several decades ago. While talking to older foresters here at the time was the principle that, for example, a log would be left at the driveways, and cutting would be done behind this incense, today we will see that this log will not be left. Of course, you can immediately see that you see, are cut, large piles of logs are on the side of the road. This certainly raises questions as to whether there is too much chopping and whether the cutting capacity is not higher than the increase. As far as I have been provided with these data, I can say, by looking at the volume of felling, that the increase has been higher. But it is also true, as I said, that there is a debate about what we base growth on. Is it just managed forests or other forests? Talking to a lot of foresters, when the gilts are taken out, they ask, but what's wrong with that gilt, it's also a forest. And, as I said, we must also take into account that, if we divide the Estonian forest, we can very roughly say that half of it is a state forest and almost as much is an ermets. Very many Estonian residents are actually forest owners. Now, I think there is another question that should also be discussed with the owners of private and state forests. It's that when the cutting is done, how the planting is done, how the sowing takes place. In a natural way or in a plant? In my opinion, RMK has, at least for RMK, I dare say, done a very good job here. I think that the principle that, if there is a felling, it will be replanted using one method or another in the near future, over a few years, as it is. I promise you that I will be a good partner both to the Committee on the Environment and to the Minister for the Environment, but also, more generally, to Estonian society in order to discuss and obtain a concrete result through forest thematics.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U62	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U63	Let's go to the next question. This is Question No. 7, by Andres Sutt, and he is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U64	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! My question concerns the agreement between the Minister of Finance and the American law firm. You have confirmed here today that it is important for you that the agreements be concluded correctly and legally. You also confirmed that you have been familiar with the analysis and assessments of both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Foreign Intelligence Directorate regarding their law firms. And you confirmed that the conclusion of these contracts was prepared in the best way and in the best way. However, at a meeting on Monday with representatives of the office that won the agreement, it became clear that they were already approached in the summer of 2019 and that Louis Freeh, partner of the office, also met with the Minister of Finance in December 2019. After all, all of this actually suggests that the actual competition did not take place, but that the competition was fictitious. When did you find out that the competition for office selection was fictitious?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U65	Thank you. I think that the fact that people are meeting different companies before they enter into an agreement, I don't know how it could be different. We need to meet, we need to make it clear. Now, that last question was very powerful, Mr Sutt. Welcome to politics! If you say a fictitious contract was signed, you're already legally making your assessment here. I don't know, I don't have that kind of knowledge that this contract is fictitious. Once again, I think it's important to find a partner on US soil. I agree with you all these next briefings here for two hours on Freeh, but I will stick to my position. If, for example, this agreement ends, in theory, I have said that this agreement will end if this agreement is not fulfilled, then in any case, I think, a new partner must be found. We have already discussed in the previous government that such a partner should actually be found. There was also a debate at the time, but then it did not get there. Now we have moved on, and I am glad that we have made the most of it. If you're asking for any specific dates when I found out that the Freeh agreement was being concluded, I'm sorry, but I don't have that kind of willingness to say right now. I think even in a second if I was wrong to answer the Reform Party, it would be an evil herd. So I'm definitely not gonna do that. I don't have any information today. I don't have any information today that this competition has somehow been played into one hand, or another. I have the information that the Minister of Finance has told me that different offices have been evaluated, and as far as I know, even more than three offices have been evaluated if I am not mistaken and tried to find out the best. The decision has been made. Cooperation with this office is currently working, and the Minister for Finance has not brought the matter to the government that this cooperation agreement is not being implemented on the one hand or on the other, and that this agreement should be cancelled.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U66	Andres Sutt, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U67	Thank you. My questions concern the activities of the Minister of Finance, not the law firm. Today, perhaps you have noticed, the DA's office has announced that they cannot give this law firm access to criminal records because it is not legal. My question in this regard is this: what direction do you now give to the Minister of Finance, because this was one of the main parts of the contract with the law firm? The prosecutor's office has also commented very clearly today that they do not need help on this issue, that they themselves are dealing with it, and that they are also communicating with the American law enforcement authorities themselves. What guidance do you give to the Minister of Finance in connection with the agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U68	Thank you. In any case, I think it is a good thing that the prosecutor's office has expressed its position. This information is important, it is necessary and it needs to be moved forward to see whether it has any effect on the conclusion of the contract in question, or whether it does not affect the conclusion of the contract in question in a negative or positive way, or whether it is neutral. And then we have to make the following decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U69	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! First of all, I don't think the Prime Minister can say he doesn't have any information. You have confirmed today that you have read the report of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I would like to hope that you have also read today's Estonian Express, which refers to this report. It states in this report that the embassies were aware that the two agencies, which seem to have participated in this competition, have been told in the previous communication to which you referred and which is as if OK, that they have a conflict of interest and that they are very likely not to qualify. The Ministry of Finance was aware that two of these offices could not participate. It's in the Estonian Express, it's in the State Department's report, it's in the embassies' memos. You must have read this report, and if you have not read it, please read it. So this competition has been fictitious. My question. The Ministry of Finance is the supervisor of public procurement. Other public bodies, such as local authorities, must also be guided by supervision and recommendations in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. What does it look like when, at the highest level in the country, the Ministry of Finance clearly states that public procurement does not have to be carried out according to the prescribed procedure, but can be done 'fictly, seemingly'? How do you feel about that? And what must be the basis for the future, either by law or by what is shown to us at the highest level?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U71	Thank you. It seems to me, Mr. Networker, that you have everything messed up like a Kört-Pärt shirt. Of course I'm aware, I said that several times. I don't know if you listened or didn't want to listen or if you had to ask the question that Mr. Ligi whispered in your ear. Why don't you ask it yourself? Ask it yourself. I've told you several times that I've been familiar with the State Department review, I've been familiar with the Foreign Intelligence Board review. It's known. It is also known that these two offices themselves said that they have a conflict of interest, they cannot participate in this process. I've made this known to you many times here. I thank you for raising the topic of the Estonian Express. I would like to say that the Estonian Express has not yet been able to destroy the Centre Party. But do I read the Express? Still reading, but I haven't been able to read this morning. Late last night came from an external mission, and this morning, during the first hours of the working day, we have been working on putting together the 2021 budget and the state budget strategy. I must say to the Riigikogu completely sincerely that it seems to me that in this difficult economic and health crisis we have reached the government today that there will be a good and strong budget. This is a positive message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U72	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U73	Let's go to the next question, that's question 8. Asks Heljo Pikhof and is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U74	Thank you. If a child with special needs attends a kindergarten, he or she will be provided with the necessary services throughout the day. A parent can work and when he picks up his child, he no longer has to take him here or there to the service provider. When it comes to children with special needs who go to school, this is not so easily resolved for them. Schools are trying to make ends meet and set up these services, but, of course, from the perspective of families, the best solution would be, for example, a full day school, where the child would receive all the necessary services. He or she would have an individual curriculum, his or her support specialists, a sponsor or a caretaker how someone needs it. He would also receive specialist pedagogy, psychologist and logopaedic services, occupational therapy and physical therapy. All these services would be on the spot, so that the parent would not have to go to the child's school in the middle of the day to take him to one of the service providers. A lot of people don't have a chance to use a car either. Are there any changes to the section of schools that are on the list of local governments, but the whole line is state schools, so that parents can go to work and their child, who needs more support, has special needs, can get all the services from one place, from school?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U75	Thank you very much, Mrs Heljo Pikhof. Certainly a student who encounters difficulties in fulfilling his/her obligation to attend school or who is lagging behind in achieving his/her learning outcomes will receive such general support. Whether it is individual additional guidance or something else, it is certainly a very important service for support professionals, but if necessary, learning lessons will also be provided. If the overall support is not sufficient, external advice will be included. There is an external counseling team in every county, and there must be a great deal of thanks to the Pathfinder centers and to the people who do this important job. According to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, the schoolkeeper must ensure the availability of support services and, where appropriate, at least the service of special education, logopaedic, psychologist or social pedagogy is provided free of charge to students at school. Coming to your question, children with special needs need a variety of social and educational support services provided by local authorities or the state, as well as mental health services, which are certainly in increasing demand. It must be acknowledged that the support system for children with special needs as a whole does not work as well as we would like, and it is the parents who bear the burden of getting help. For this reason, the Minister of Social Affairs has asked you what will now soon be presented to the government with proposals to change the support system for children with special needs. The main content and aim of these amendments is precisely to ensure better quality but also faster assistance for children and to improve the assessment of the need for assistance and the organisation of services to date. When it comes to what they are, first of all, point one: bring together social and educational services, offering them in kindergarten and school, thus reducing the burden on the parent. We know that the burden on the parent is very high here, in fact, when it comes to transporting it, be it time or how he has to set up his day. This change should certainly bring relief here. Now, second, which is certainly important: a solution must be created where children can access the various services they need, regardless of their disability or need. Thirdly, it is considered important... I hope that we can move on with the next question, because I am on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U76	Thank you. No further questions. However, there is, Heljo Pikhofi has a clarification question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U77	Now I have a more specific question, and I still want an answer to that point. One problem is what parents experienced during the spring corona restrictions - that they were completely alone with their concerns. All schools, including special schools, were closed and in addition support and rehabilitation services were interrupted. Since the virus has started to spread with great care and many schools have already been closed, how can the state, if it is a state school, provide additional support to families raising children with special needs this time, in case the situation in the spring repeats? Children in need of greater support, be they children with intellectual or compound disabilities, are not capable of e-learning and need regular support and rehabilitation services to support development and maintain health. How can these services be maintained in emergency situations and how can this education be carried out for children with special needs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U78	Thank you very much. I apologise for not answering the last serious question. I would like to take this opportunity to finish this, and then I will come straight to the second question. What else has been proposed to better address this issue in the future? Thirdly, the burden on parents and the different assessment requests must be significantly reduced, and as a result we will certainly make it much easier for families to receive assistance. And fourthly, the financing of child support services for children with disabilities needs to be extended. It is now possible to use the new European Union funds to do this, and this money must be channelled to local governments so that they can have a comprehensive view of the children's need for help and ensure that the necessary services are available. In addition, I think it is important to mention that last year, in 2019, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education and Research, the Foundation Innove and the Social Insurance Board started working together to ensure that a child with special needs and his/her family reach the necessary services as soon as possible and that these services are also comfortable. In a pilot project involving eight municipalities, a solution is being tested where evaluations of different areas are carried out together so that parents do not have to turn to several different institutions and the services are guaranteed at the main place of stay of the child, for example in kindergarten, be it at home, be it at school. A pilot project on an integrated model of services for children with special needs and a tool to identify the child's need for assistance will run for you just for information until the end of this year. Now, this second question, I fully agree with what you are saying. The complete closure of schools is not only about whether we have the Internet and whether we have a computer, but also, as you rightly said, how the teaching and services of children with special needs are being done in this case. It can't be said that when schools were away and there was no contact training, there weren't any problems either. Of course you were. What would be the best solution? I think the best solution is that we don't close the education system, we don't close schools anymore. Yes, you're right to say that the spread of the virus is growing, it is growing. And we see that today, too, this decision, which has been made, is very much a matter for the schoolmaster, it is very largely actually a matter for the school administration, at which point he senses that there is something to be done now. I hope that there will first be such local closures, rather than automatically a complete closure of the school. So I think we need to take the serious lessons we learned in the spring and make as many improvements as we can at the moment. But we still have to work to ensure that the education system is not closed so that we can keep the education system open.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U79	Thank you. There are no further questions on this subject. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U80	Let us move on to the next question. Question No 9 is asked by Erkki Keldo and answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! On previous issues, there is a clear common direction in this Chamber that today's Minister of Finance has made decisions that are detrimental to the Estonian state and its reputation. In addition, colleagues have pointed out a number of episodes where the Minister of Finance has clearly lied, whether it be false claims in the National Defence Committee, Riigikogu sitting, in the media or elsewhere. The Minister of Finance himself has said: "There are some sins that politicians cannot forgive, and one of them is lying." Good Prime Minister, there's a man in your government who's consistently caught lying to the public. Let's just take Delfi's factual check, which has identified a lot of lies that Martin Helme has said. And, oh, look at the miracle! The Minister has named the journalists on this very portal and has refused interviews. Adding to this the systematic damage to the Estonian state and to the reputation, whether it is, to say the least, the conclusion of a dubious and obviously targeted legal agreement, the threat of farmers mentioned earlier, the question of the competence of the Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces, the ridicule of parliamentary democracy, it is clear to the day that such a person is not suitable to represent Estonia in the Government of the Republic. In any normal government and political culture, such a minister would long ago have submitted a resignation and left. Since the Minister obviously does not do so himself, I have a question for you: is Martin Helme the principal of today's government and does not resign, or do you still have enough statesmanship and courage to recall a person with such a criminal record as a prime minister and to show that in the government you are really making decisions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U82	Thank you, Mr. Keldo! I don't know, first of all, you should make one thing clear inside. Kaja Kallas says that Martin Helme is the head of substance, you say he is the political leader. I don't know if you mean them synonymous or how it is. Try to make this clear in the Reform Party Group. But here you may also have different positions, which you consider Martin Helmet to be. In conclusion, I think, as I have said to Mrs Kallas, that such an ironic, attacking, derogatory attitude that you want to continue to sow is, in my opinion, not quite a good one. I don't think it's right. So let's start looking through the various possible sins you put on his soul, slices and slices. First of all, the money laundering that you come back to over and over and over again and talk about reputational damage. It is not the case that you are talking about the Freeh Treaty, and when it comes to money laundering, the Reform Party says that no, we are not talking about what was 2008 or 2015, we are not talking about the Freeh Treaty. It's not like that. Once again, I think that the Reform Party is in a very bad position on this issue. During that period, your politicians were in different positions of leadership, up to the head of government, but this topic was not seriously brought up for any reason. They did not bring it to the government office, where, in fact, I believe, this debate would have been a place. The extent to which Estonia has suffered reputational damage in the economy, how many of our companies have suffered reputational damage, is very large, it is screaming. And that's clear. I think that one of the biggest aspects of reputational damage in the Estonian economy and employment has been the same money laundering that lasted from 2008 to 2015. Point one. Item two, defense. I answered that question. I'll answer you too, Mr. Keldo. It has not been the wish of any government partner today to reduce national defence. No, it wasn't. On the contrary, there has been a desire to maintain the level of defence, and even a desire, if financially possible, to fill certain existing capacity gaps, of course, in line with the substantive plans of the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence, wherever possible. And if you ask me again if Martin Helme is a government minister and a member of the government, the answer is yes, it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U83	Erkki Keldo, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U84	Thank you. First of all, I think we need to clear up some inaccuracies. Please don't put words in my mouth that I haven't said. I never talked about money laundering, I talked about a suspicious legal contract. The second thing I did not say was that Martin Helme is a political leader, but a substantive leader, as it seems to be when you look at your answers. And the other way around, I'm not saying anything, these specific episodes, where we've been dealing with a lying and vassing finance minister, have brought out our investigative press, or they have happened in this very Chamber or in our committees. They're real, that's a fact. These are not claims. However, I am sorry to see that you do not really want to answer and rather try to iron, spin, and perhaps make some slight remarks on the questioner. But that's it. I have another question. I hope you can answer that, but you didn't answer the first one until the end. Unfortunately, the way things have happened in the past in your government is that when ministers Helmed have started to adequately attack one of our good officials, unfortunately, the leaders of the Health Board, the Attorney General, the Chancellor of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, the head of the Veterinary and Food Board, the head of KredEx have gone, the head of the Police and Border Guard Board has been put under pressure, and there are probably more good people. Perhaps this time, instead of a good civil servant, we could leave the state's reputation as a discrediting and lying minister? Perhaps I will repeat the question: do you think that a person with this pattern of behaviour is suitable to represent Estonia in the Government of the Republic? I'm asking if you think he's okay, not if he's a minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U85	Thank you. So let's go over these things. Head of the Health Board, I don't understand who asked him to leave. If anyone has asked him to leave, I remember that the press called for seven days at some point during this crisis, including me, to leave the head of the Health Board. I said that it does not make sense at the heart of the crisis. He decided to resign himself. Attorney General, his term of office was full and there was a new competition. Of course, in conclusion, a candidate who receives government support must be found. Nobody left early. I honestly don't know if he's now a member of the Reform Party or not, but he's, as far as I know, an elder in Viimsi parish. Human, it seems, it was still the will to go to politics, and I wish him strength. The great parish and the serious parish, the serious challenges, certainly he will manage well there I hope. But at the Ministry of Rural Affairs, I had to solve the management crisis, and it was solved. This was resolved very clearly and specifically. The head of the PBA here is Elmar Vaher, who, I don't know, was completely wrong to get rid of, last summer. I told you it wouldn't be like that. He has my trust, and he still has it. I see you're laughing, you're also glad he's at work. I am also pleased that I think he is doing a good job under the PBGB. Now, for the Commander of the Defence Forces, I've already given you an answer in briefing today. I see no reason why the Commander of the Defence Forces, Martin Herem, should somehow be replaced in this period. Really, I don't see it. I think that the Estonian Defence Forces, the Defence Forces, the Defence League have done a very good job and continue to do a very good job. That is what our partners, everyone I communicate with, say that an Estonian fighter, an Estonian soldier, is highly valued, be it French or be it representatives of other allied countries. And I think [Martin Herem], thanks to a very long experience in the Defence Forces and the Defence League, there are also very important services in this regard. So I certainly support the continuation of Mr Helme as Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U86	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U87	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! Let me remind you that we in this Chamber are still asking the questions that we believe the Estonian people want to know through the ERR. And so is Mart Võrguship. If you didn't understand his question or didn't want to answer it, then the irony might not be in this Chamber. But my question is how the famous lawyer Freeh arrived at the Riigikogu. Namely, Minister of the Interior Helme worked hard to chase Ukrainians working behind the Estonian forest and at the edges of the fields to see if they violated or did not violate the quarantine and to expel them from the country. On Monday came hopping to the Riigikogu, I realized that a lawyer without a mask, Freeh, directly from the plane. Should the conditions for limiting the spread of the Corona be the same for Estonians, Americans, Ukrainians and also for Helmets, their actions, or is Minister Helme entitled to apply anti-corona measures selectively? What happens when a coroner came to the Riigikogu from the airport or somewhere else and maybe in a week half the hall will be sick?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U88	Thank you. First of all, I think that I think it has been a very constructive and interesting Question Time. And I agree that the questions you are asking are in many minds, on the lips of Estonia, and I believe that these answers will also give you clarity. Let us take the various issues that have been discussed here today: the Constitution, forestry, damage to agriculture. What I'm saying is, in fact, Kruus has been keeping this subject on the table all along, and in that sense, I actually commend him. And the activities of the Minister of Finance, the issues of children with special needs, I think these are all very important issues. Point one. And I don't mind Mr. Gridship, it's just that the question was maybe too multifaceted. But I think he's an active member of the Riigikogu, all the time in Question Time, and he's doing his job very well. Yes, it is true that it is possible, if there is a reasoned request, to enter the country without having to comply with the requirement of self-isolation. This has been the case before, and it is today. With a special permit, that's possible. Are these restrictions the same for everyone today? The answer is that it is not, it is not the same for everyone. The government has made exceptions to different sectors, for example in the sport sector there was still an exception to double competition. We have also always had exceptions in trade, in business. We continue to have an exception for workers who work in Estonia or Latvia. There are very many of these exceptions, there is no similar approach, in a single direction. That's right. We have an exception for those with diplomatic passports. These exceptions are created, yes, it's true, it's not a secret. You ask how [Freeh] came here to the Riigikogu. I understand you're asking how he got into the country, so you didn't have to remain self-insulated. The answer is that he had the exception of the PBGB. But, of course, I think there's going to be any condescending attitude here, and I'm not saying that anyone on our side really should be left out. You are quite right to say that the virus is in an ascending phase, in a very strong ascension phase in Estonia. God willing not to come here in the Riigikogu or anywhere else, as you said, but we see today that the infection is growing very strongly. I think it's important to do what I do, too, that when I'm sick or I feel sick, I don't go to work. I also think that hand hygiene is very important. And I, for example, tell you the truth, I'm putting as much and more in public space as possible in front of a mask. I think it's right, like in stores.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U89	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U90	The next question is No 10, posed by Riina Sikkut and answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! There are some simple rules for governance, good governance: transparency, inclusion and cooperation. And in order for some work to be done, people need to understand what the task for which they have been hired is for which the contract has been concluded. Katri Raik already referred to an interview with New News. There Mr Freeh explains very nicely what his aim is: in addition to bringing Estonia a lot of money and standing up for Estonia, he also has the task of relaying evidence to the US. He sees it's his job to get these evidence to the United States. Similarly, the offer states that there is a need to interrogate or interview the Witnesses, to determine the location of the Witnesses. At the same time, Estonian research institutions say that indeed, cooperation with US partners has been very good and they have not yet seen the need for an intermediary. Today, during Question Time, there was also news that the prosecutor's office has not signed such a contract to give all the data to the contractor or to allow them to be used. In this case, I wonder how the work for which the agreement has been concluded can be done. The leaders of the special committees, Jürgen Ligi and Katri Raik, drew your attention to this a few weeks ago and proposed that the agreement be terminated and that a new, properly transparent tender be carried out to find the best representative on this important issue. Do you see that this signed agreement will result in the result that the Minister of Finance wants? Or would it be necessary to terminate the agreement and move forward in an honest and transparent way with good governance?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U92	First of all, thank you very much, good Riina, for this question. I have to apologize: if the news comes during Question Time today has really been a very interesting and substantive debate in my opinion, there have been good questions, I hope there have been good answers, or if the questions have been answered, then I cannot read these news on this phone, for example, from the National Broadcasting Portal. But I'll definitely do it after briefing. There have been several questions today, you see, you have ten questions, I have already answered nine. So there really is no way to do this here. But, yeah, I'm sure I'll watch the news afterwards. Now on, you are referring again to this agreement, the termination of this agreement. Yes, I have said that, indeed, if this agreement is not fulfilled, then this agreement will not apply either, will it not? I understand that the place of the main attack is whether Freeh" or its law firm has been elected by the Minister of Finance in a fair and transparent manner or whether, as the accusation has been made here, a very strong charge of this agreement has been played directly into one's hands. Once again, I don't have that information, nor was it in the office. There was a clear statement from the Minister of Finance that it was certainly necessary to consider the various bidders. He has always said, as I said earlier, that three offices were offered a specific offer. I think he even said that there were more offices he was talking to to to find the best service provider. Now, in my opinion, this is about money laundering in general. I have also tried to say in these answers that I am, of course, concerned about what has happened in Estonia. Estonia has still suffered a very severe economic blow. Let us be honest, this has also been a very serious blow to Estonia's reputation. And the wisdom of how to go from here to here, we must actually all work together for it. I think you will also remember how we discussed once in the previous government whether or not you should have such a partner behind the ocean. There were quite heated and serious disputes. And this dispute, this debate continued in today's government and it has come to the conclusion that this partner is actually needed by Estonia. I continue to think that this partner is needed by Estonia. The one who is the best partner has not been said by the government just hasn't said to choose it or the law firm. This has been the competence of the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance. In fact, it has always been the case that such contracts are still made by the Minister and the Ministry of the relevant field. I'm sorry, I went a little over time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U93	Thank you. Before giving Mrs Riina Sikkut an opportunity to clarify the question, I would like to remind you, as in the previous Question Time, that the members of the Riigikogu who are asking questions would try to present them as accurately as possible according to how these questions have been forwarded to the members of the government and, in this case, governance is the subject of the question. Unfortunately, the question that has just been asked was very conditionally qualified under this topic. I recall that a member of the government may rightly refuse to reply if the matter does not concern the problem mentioned in the request. I will, however, have the answer, but please keep it in mind in the future. Please, Riina Sikkut, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U94	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! That's why I brokered the news, that I know you can't read them in the meantime, but it's important information. Undoubtedly, you may not have information that the procurement has been deliberately played or something similar. But there are now enough doubts as to whether there has been a fair game, and when such doubts have arisen, we should respond as quickly as possible. The second aspect, which is much highlighted in the conclusion of this agreement and which equally concerns governance, is the following. The Estonian authorities have agreed and established certain rules regarding the sharing of information in their relations with Russia. In the same interview, the representative of the contractor says that yes, he sees that he could ask the central bank of Russia for information and offer Estonia this type of help. I am not sure whether the independent work of the contract partner in the direction of Russia is something that is in line with Estonia's governance practice. Do you really not feel that there are currently enough doubts to stop disbursements under the contract and working under the contract and to organise a new procurement in order to find a transparent partner who is able to protect Estonia's interests well?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U95	Thank you. I fully agree that in defending Estonia's interests, we really must do everything to ensure that at least as much as we feel about the United States of America, as much as we have the knowledge to choose the best contractual partner to protect Estonia's interests. I totally agree with that. Is today's choice the best or isn't it the best? I think that's what we can argue about, after all, there are still many law firms on American soil that offer such protection and this kind of work. You say that these doubts have been thrown up a lot in the press. I agree that it has been thrown, I do not disagree. But it's also said differently. I say that your former associate, I think the head of the committee, Jaanus Rahumägi, has said in the press that according to his information [Freeh] had to be a very good partner, a very good person and a lawyer, very highly valued. I do not know where Mr Rahumägi takes this feeling, but he has also been in the Riigikogu for a long and long time, he has been chairman of the committee in this area. And that's what his assessment has been. So after all, these estimates have really been different. In any case, I agree with this in order to take a serious look at the news at your request. Of course, if partners are chosen, there would also be a set of rules, a very specific set of rules. There's no way to be acceptable playing one hand like that. To me, the Minister of Finance has repeatedly argued that the preliminary work has been done and has been sought to find various offices to get an offer from. And the truth is, yes, two of them said immediately that they could not participate, they had a conflict of interest in this matter. Our job is to ask whether or not this partner today has a conflict of interest. You pointed out Russia's aspect, he has said that it is not. I would like to warmly thank all the questioners of the Riigikogu; I think that there have been very serious, interesting and necessary questions. I also thank the President of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U96	Thank you. Thank you to my colleagues for asking and thank you to the members of the government for answering. That concludes our Question Time today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U97	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 2nd working week Wednesday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. To begin with, members of the Riigikogu are able to deliver drafts and questions. Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U98	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The Minister of Finance has deliberately and systematically caused damage to the Estonian state by lying, secreting and denouncing the Riigikogu, the President, members of the government and constitutional institutions and insulting the various groups of society. He has lost confidence as Minister of the Republic of Estonia. The Minister of Finance has been determined to act against democracy and the rule of law and against the fundamental values of Estonia. The conclusion of an agreement with an American law firm is only one reason why the Minister of Finance does not deserve a government minister. His list of errors is much longer, and the most important actions on this list have been documented in a motion of mistrust. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I will hand over a motion of distrust to Minister of Finance Martin Helme and I call on you to support this motion of distrust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U99	Thank you. There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. I have adopted an initiative of censure and the Riigikogu Board processes it in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, presence check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U100	97 members of the Riigikogu registered, missing 4.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U101	Let's go to today's agenda. On today's agenda, we have six points for now. The first item is the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Voting the Supreme Court of Ulmas Volens" presented by the President of the Supreme Court, Villu Kõve 222. But before we go to the processing of this item, I will briefly present the procedure for this item. First of all, the representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will be present for up to 20 minutes. The presentation of a candidate for a member of the Supreme Court is then up to 5 minutes. Then comes a round of questions, where each member of the Riigikogu can ask each of the two rapporteurs an oral question, followed by negotiations, in which only the representatives of the political groups can participate. Then there will be a final vote, which will be secret. Ladies and gentlemen, We will go to the first item on the agenda: First reading of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the Supreme Court of Ulmas Volens presented by the President of the Supreme Court, Villu Kõve. I request Mr Kallas, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U102	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the candidacy of Urmas Volens on 14 September. First, Villu Kõve presented Urmas Volens, who has also visited all political groups, and then there were questions. The questions of the members of the Constitutional Committee were pushed by Urmas Volens' CV. His doctoral thesis supervised by the number was too large, said Paul Puustusmaa. How can we cope with this? Urmas Volens pointed out that, in fact, the mentor must write his work himself and his part there is not so great. Mr Pevkur asked whether new judges should not be taken for the next 20 years, as all new judges are young. There was a debate on its surface. Kalle Grünthal asked whether the same-sex marriage should be defined in the Constitution or not. Urmas Volens replied that there was nothing to be said about this today. The family is covered by the law, and the Constitution is not, according to Urmas Volens, the place where it should be regulated. This should remain a matter of political debate. When the questions were answered, it was proposed to put this draft decision on the agenda of the assembly, to have a final vote on it, supported by all members of the committee, to appoint Kaja Kallas, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur, and to propose to Urmas Volens on the basis of § 117 (3) of the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, all of them also supported this presentation in front of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U103	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U104	Good manager! Good waitress! I ask you, in your candidate-debate, did the dark parties come up in his earlier actions, which may come on the agenda today, and which may make it difficult to vote for him? Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U105	No, it wasn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U106	Thank you. No further questions for you. I request Urmas Volens as a waitress for a member of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U107	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! It is a great honour for me to stand before you here and be ready to answer all your questions right after the presentation, including the dark side. But first of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for the fact that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was prepared to give me the opportunity to come here and make a speech before you. Secondly, I would like to thank all the political groups that, in the spring of emergency, we managed to meet all of you in a virtual way, but still, we did. These meetings were very pleasant for me, and I hope that all the questions that the groups had were answered. Thirdly, I would like to thank the President of the Supreme Court for proposing to me to apply and to support my application. As a state official, lecturer and lawyer, I have played different roles in the legal order of the Estonian state and developed it for 22 years, and I would be very grateful if you would support me to continue [this work] in the Supreme Court. The candidates for the Supreme Court judge who stood before you here have all stressed and traditionally talked about the fact that the Supreme Court and the judge cannot have any action at all. It is true that the court itself does not have the right of initiative, that the court itself cannot deal with any case or decide to deal with it. Secondly, the constitutional requirement of the independence of the court prohibits the candidate from making any political or other promises as to how the Supreme Court, with my involvement, should not settle any disputes. And it must also be emphasised that the Supreme Court cannot make decisions based on public expectations, but the Supreme Court must only make decisions according to the law, including the Constitution, and the best legal knowledge that has reached the Supreme Court. So, as a candidate for a judge, I am not a politician, and I cannot give you political or world-view promises as to how I will act as a judge, but I can make a promise that I will do my job according to the best knowledge according to Estonian law and the current constitution. I promise that I will be loyal to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia, as the oath of the judge requires. My specialty is civil law, and I'm running for judge of the Civil College. I would perhaps like to emphasise one thing in relation to civil justice: a civil court is not a repressive body. This does not seem to correspond to the usual understanding of the court's punishment, but the purpose of the civil court is to help resolve a dispute between the parties that they cannot resolve on their own. In my opinion, the aim of the judicial system in civil matters should be that any person who comes out of the hearing would have the feeling that the court has taken his case sufficiently into account, made it clear the facts and explained why he is making the decision. A person should not feel that the trial was reckless to him. Unfortunately, for ten years as a lawyer, I have also seen situations in which a person comes out of the courthouse with a feeling that the court did not go far enough. And that is one thing I want to do when I become a judge of the state, if you support me: to develop the judicial system in such a way that all people departing from the court feel that the court is at least very seriously deluded with [his problem], that his business has been dealt with, that is to say, it is intended and it has not been done recklessly. Thank you. I'm ready to answer all your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U108	Thank you. Indeed, you also have questions. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U109	Thank you. Good waitress! I have so far asked all the candidates for the Supreme Court the same question and I will ask you the same question. Does the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia prevail over the law of the European Union throughout the territory of Estonia, including occupied Petseri County and the area beyond Narva? Or is some part of Estonia's territory one where the Estonian Constitution, no matter what aspect, does not prevail over the law of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U110	Thank you for your question. This question has indeed been dealt with for a long time. Our constitution should be valid throughout the territory of Estonia as a Constitution. Today, part of our territory is not under the factual control of the Estonian state. That's right. We have a border agreement that awaits ratification. We have a temporary check line today, and in the area behind it, it is probably not possible to actually implement the Estonian Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U111	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U112	Honourable performer! I have this question: how do you feel about gender change? Do you consider it normal and support its relaxation or should it be limited in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U113	If you're asking for my personal opinion, I'm not going to change my sex. But in general, according to the law in force in society today, it is possible. It provides for a rather long procedure so that a person can think about this step in advance. Today Estonia's political forces have agreed that gender change is possible. I guess that's all I can say as a judge. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the code of ethics for judges, which actually sets limits to what I can give answers to. Paragraph 7 of the Code of Ethics of the Judges states that the judge refrains from political action and political acceptance. If this issue were a political dispute and I should stand before you as a candidate for a judge, I would not like to take a stand on these issues, because that would be contrary to the code of ethics of the judges.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U114	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U115	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. A candidate for an honorable judge of state! You were Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Justice, and then there was a very large-scale work to codify the Commercial Code. At the time, you created a company that won a public procurement in this area and got the job. Maybe it's all within the bounds of the law and it's a jock scheme, but it certainly casts a shadow on your past. Perhaps it would be easier not to apply to the Supreme Court and join the Reform Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U116	Thank you for your question. I really have not considered joining the Reform Party or entering political action at all. The fact that I worked at the Ministry of Justice until 2009 is true. For the last three years, I was there as Deputy Chancellor of Justice. The review of the company law you referred to was decided several years later, when I stopped working at the Ministry of Justice. Indeed, the law firm NOVE, of which I am a partner, participated in this procurement in 2016. But I can't see the connection here. There were eight people with doctoral degrees in the working group who have been all involved in the development of Estonian company law. Our task was to write up a rather large report that you can access on the Justice Department's website. It is about a thousand pages thick, legal comparative analysis, quite academic and complex text. I don't think there's a lot of people who've bothered to read it all the way through. Unfortunately, I've had to read it because I had to get it together. But I don't think I should be ashamed of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U117	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U118	Thank you very much. Honourable candidate! How do you feel about the principle of the so-called living law or the theory that the Constitution does not need to change the norm in a technical way, but that the meaning of the Constitution can also be changed by interpretation as a result of the trial, procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U119	Thank you. After all, all our laws are in the interpretation process of lawyers on a daily basis, and the interpretation that must be followed in the future is given by the courts. The interpretation of the Supreme Court is, however, not formally outside the particular case, but in general, it is a guide to the courts of lower levels about how such provisions will be interpreted in the future. This also applies to the Constitution. The interpretations of the Constitution are given not only by the court but also by the lawyer, and the interpretations of the Court have a greater meaning in their own right. That's how justice develops. We have legal literature on how to interpret the law. The courts then assess whether they agree with this interpretation. Sometimes it is, sometimes it isn't. Then it'll be rewritten in legal literature about it, and so this circle will grow all the time. Now the question is how far it is possible to go with an interpretation of the current text of the law. It's really a complicated place. We have two things. On the one hand, the court cannot refuse justice. If there is a question before the court that is in dispute between the parties and that needs to be resolved, the court must find a solution. The court has no right to raise its hands and say that we cannot decide. Thus, in this situation, the courts must find an interpretation that would help to resolve the problem. But this limit in a particular case may, of course, be debatable in terms of how far a court can go.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U120	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U121	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Mr Kaalep asked you a question containing two questions. You answered the other one, but you didn't answer the first one. I'll ask it then. This concerned your opinion on which is the supreme: our constitution, the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, or the laws of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U122	The Estonian Constitution has been supplemented when entering the European Union by an amendment which says that the principles of European Union law take precedence in certain respects. This does not concern our fundamental rights or the foundations of our statehood, but in many cases international agreements can be agreed differently than the existing law. And in that case, the international treaty, the law of the European Union, is above Estonian law. This is how the Estonian people have decided to change the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U123	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U124	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will continue with this question of the Constitution. Do you think that today's surveillance of the Estonian Constitution is sufficient? Is enough time devoted to it? Is there no fear that our constitution will remain a little dead in writing or that there may be too few of these matters of constitutional supervision? Maybe they don't get enough time? Do you think we have enough of this system? Could we need a separate constitutional court? Do you see that any restructuring is needed here, or are you satisfied with everything that's going on right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U125	Surely the Constitution is not a dead text. He lives every day and we use him every day, every lawyer has him in his pocket. But as far as the constitutional review system is concerned, it has been discussed throughout the period following the adoption of the Constitution: should we form a constitutional court or is the current system where we have the Supreme Court exercising the constitutional review function sufficient? My personal view is that, having been in the role of employing people for quite a long time, it is ultimately also a question of human resources. If we wanted to create a constitutional court, there would probably not be one or two judges, but there should be one or two judges to make it seem believable, at least five or seven. Where do we find these five or seven additional fundamental rights experts with enough international horizons, educated, degrees? Who are we gonna put in there? In fact, with a population of 1.3 million people, there is not so much to take these people away from. And that is why I am not in favour of creating a constitutional court, because we can really have difficulty finding these people. On the substantive side, I see a problem that maybe even a lawyer role has taught me. This is that in our system today, there is no possibility to complain about the decision of the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court, the Civil Chamber and the Administrative Chamber under constitutional supervision. However, § 3 of the Constitution states that all branches of state power are bound by the Constitution and should be governed by the Constitution. There may be a problem that a civil college or a criminal college composed of specialists in a narrow field will look rather narrowly at legal issues: civil law, penal law, administrative law. Perhaps such a broader constitutional view would provide that it is possible to appeal against the decision [under constitutional supervision], perhaps on certain narrow grounds, in complex matters, in matters addressed to society, and would give rise to the feeling that the judicial system has dealt with the matter to the end. Such opportunities exist in other countries, for example, against the decision of the highest German civil college or criminal college, you can appeal to the Bundesverwaltungsgericht... And as lawyers, we have read about how these views have been different. That's one thing you might consider. But it is certainly not a burning problem to say that constitutional oversight is not working.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U126	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U127	Thank you, good vice chairman. A good candidate for a judge of state! Sorry, I actually have two questions, both relatively short. What do you see as such major concerns about resolving civil disputes today? Is there anything that should be improved in the resolution of litigation? And the second, independent question is: how do you feel about introducing non-formal liability insurance in Estonia, so that patients can quickly receive compensation without having to go to court and wait for the conviction of a doctor or hospital or someone else?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U128	Thank you. First of all, the first question: what should be improved in the case of civil justice? The European civil justice system and the judicial system in general are compared on an annual basis. There is such a thing as a report on the efficiency of justice systems, in which Estonia has been very well-placed for years. Despite the fact that it seems to us here that the cases are going very slowly, for example, Estonia is the second largest in Europe at the speed of solving civil matters. Only Austria is faster. So it seems that in international comparison we have done everything very well. The other way around, when you are a party to the proceedings, the court still seems to be dealing very slowly. And that's one thing that's caused me to worry about in law enforcement over the past ten years: the ability of the courts to run the proceedings effectively. It would also be possible to significantly improve the outcome of this second place or to create a feeling in the parties to the proceedings that the court is indeed dealing adequately if the courts were to manage the proceedings better. This is something that, to some extent, can be supported by the legislator from time to time, before you amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure, there have been a number of attempts to do so, but, in my opinion, above all, this is a question of what the ability to manage the proceedings of judges is. How effectively they are able to carry out the procedure between the individual parties to the process. And there's definitely a lot of things that can still be done. This is something that you would certainly be worth paying attention to in the upcoming generation exchange of judges, where many new judges need to be trained, and they also need to be trained to lead the procedure, to increase the capacity of procedural management. As regards non-formal liability insurance in the medical field, I must admit that I have not given much thought to this problem. I know this is a discussion. I know that the medical department or the medical sector would like to receive liability insurance to ensure that the patient, in the event of a medical error, receives his or her reimbursement regardless of whether the court finds the fault of a particular institution or a specific doctor. If I only look at it with the eyes of a civil law lawyer, it means that the responsibility of doctors gets tougher. Today we have a guilty responsibility. If the doctor can prove in court that I did everything I had to do on today's level of medical knowledge as a lege artis," and the damage nevertheless happened, for some unexpected reason, today the doctor is relieved of responsibility. If we start to treat this as a liability independent of guilt, it is essentially a liability for risk, as we have been imposed on motor vehicle drivers, animal keepers and parents. Perhaps the doctor is responsible and the insurance is responsible for the risk that basically health damage may occur. This is the point of weighing. The patient will certainly be more favorable if it is resolved independently of guilt. On the other hand, I think it would be important, from the point of view of the medical board's sense of responsibility, that these questions, whether and in what circumstances to be treated as medicinal, be dealt with in order to ensure that there is clarity in this matter, not in order to condemn anyone, but in order to avoid these matters in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U129	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U130	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable candidate! I have a practical task and a question for you about your potential position. Suppose the European Union intends to introduce mandatory migration quotas for Estonia. What is your opinion as to whether or not this quota is mandatory for us on the basis of the law in force?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U131	I have to admit, I have never thought about this question before. What the court should decide in this situation depends on how these migration quotas are established and on what arguments anyone is trying to challenge. The Court itself will probably never be able to reach the point where it takes migration quotas on its desk and recognises them to be incompatible with the Constitution. This can only be assessed in the context of specific arguments, otherwise I would give you an unprofessional answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U132	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U133	Good manager! Good waitress! 2006 to 2011, for five years, you studied the part of the Estonian legal space in the global legal space for a quarter of a million dollars. It's been ten years now, and I don't think you're doing any research right now. But in this ten-year period, how has the Estonian legal space changed in the global legal space? Or has it remained the same? Where have we gone, can you judge now?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U134	What you're referring to is a science project that I really participated in as a doctoral student at the university. It focused on a comparative analysis of the area of civil justice. My work on this project mainly concerned the comments of the law of property law and the comparative analysis of the law of property law. The conclusions we made were quite property-specific. But in answering this question more broadly, how Estonia's legal order seems in the global legal order, I think we can be quite proud of our legal order. Especially in this comparison, which concerns the countries that started from the same starting position in the early 1990s. After all, our laws, which were mostly made in the 1990s and early 2000s, were very much based on an international legal comparative analysis. The Riigikogu once even decided that the creation of the Estonian legal order should be based on a legal comparative analysis, in particular that Estonia has historically belonged to the Germanic legal family. As a result, the vast majority of the most important Estonian laws have not been made by the so-called pure legislative method that we take up clean papers and think of what could be, but have been looked around a lot in the world, looked for a lot of examples and applied what is generally accepted in this area. So this is one thing that is definitely the strength of the Estonian legal order. Another thing that is the strength of the Estonian legal order and which comparable countries, such as Latvia, Lithuania or Finland, have not even had in the last 15 years been the emergence of large-scale legal literature. We have a very good tradition of law that you can best see when you are interested, for example by looking at the executive edition of the Code of Civil Procedure. There are almost 800 paragraphs in the code, but there are 4,500 pages of comments. These are things that will certainly help judges to do their job, develop justice and have a value that, for example, many countries do not have. In this sense, the Estonian legal order can be proud.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U135	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U136	Thank you, Vice President of the Riigikogu. Honourable candidate for a judge! You previously referred to one question without answering the ethic of the judge. As far as I know, you're not a judge yet. I would like to ask if it was made an excuse not to answer an uncomfortable question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U137	No, there was nothing uncomfortable about that. But it seems to me that I am here in the role where you should judge me as a future judge and it is not my place to take a stand for the current political discussion in a situation where, in case you should support my candidacy, these questions may come before the Supreme Court. In that case, if I were to support one or the other position in the dispute, it would seem that I am not an impartial judge, and that is what I would like to avoid in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U138	Thank you, Honorable Judge of State. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiations, so we can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on draft 222 of the Riigikogu's decision by the President of the Supreme Court, Villu Kõve, to appoint a member of the Supreme Court of Ulmas Volens. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U139	68 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 19 against and 2 abstentions. The decision has been taken. Ladies and gentlemen, Director's break is five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U140	Honourable Riigikogu! We will continue today's sitting, the President's intermission is over. The Government of the Republic wishes to discuss the written request submitted by 45 members of the Riigikogu, "Publication of trust in finance Minister Martin Helme" in today's session. Therefore, on the basis of § 56 (1) (2) and (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu has added this request to the agenda of today's sitting to the discussion and it will take place as a second item on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, I will take the chairman's break 20 minutes so that the members of the coalition parties can also read the motion of censure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U141	Honourable Riigikogu! The break taken by the President is over and we will move on to our agenda today. The second item is the written request made by 45 members of the Riigikogu to express censure to Minister of Finance Martin Helme. Before we go on with this, I will briefly introduce the procedure. First of all, the representative of the initiators of mistrust will be speaking for up to 20 minutes. The Minister will then speak, as well as for up to 20 minutes. The following questions will be addressed to the Minister. Each member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask up to two oral questions, after which there will be negotiations for political groups and then a vote. Today's second item: a written request from 45 members of the Riigikogu to express censure to Minister of Finance Martin Helme. I request Andres Suti, member of the Riigikogu as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U142	Good Riigikogu! We have built our country on the basis of values, democracy and the rule of law, and the fundamental values characteristic of Estonia, such as justice and justice, honesty and respect, responsibility for our words and actions, respecting them. Martin Helme, as the Minister of the Republic of Estonia, has been determined to act against these principles and the fundamental values of Estonia, to act against Estonia, step by step and piece crumbled our country, which we have built together, arguing from the surface of weather differences, but always responsible for our actions and words. Still to ensure the preservation of Estonian nationality, language and culture throughout the ages. According to the baton of the Minister of Finance in the government and with the tacit consent of the government coalition in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, the bar of political responsibility has been dug deep into the ground. Political culture has become an uncultural reality. Good people's representatives! It is time to move the bar of political responsibility and culture back to where it is appropriate for democratic Estonia. The Minister of Finance has knowingly and systematically caused damage to the Estonian state by insulting various groups of society by lying and secreting the Riigikogu, the President, members of the government and constitutional institutions. He has lost confidence as Minister of the Republic. Mr. Secretary of Finance! The Riigikogu is your employer and you have a duty to answer our questions. You have the opportunity to acknowledge your mistakes and speak the truth here in the Riigikogu Hall today. Take advantage of this opportunity! Honourable listeners! The conclusion of an agreement with an American law firm is only one reason why the Minister of Finance does not deserve a minister of the Estonian Government. His list of errors is much longer. Open and transparent government is characteristic of Estonia. Anyone who has failed on this principle cannot continue as a minister. The Minister of Finance is lost, and he's lost badly. As a minister, he has signed a contract of EUR 3 million in breach of a fair, open and transparent procurement procedure. The Riigikogu, the government, the public have been misled by a seeming competition between the three offices. The Minister of Finance has used an intermediary to find a law firm and establish contact already in summer 2019. He met with the office's partner in December of last year, much before the government authorised him to find a legal adviser in March of this year to hold a competition. This fictitious competition is clearly the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance has repeatedly humiliated other members of the government, the Minister of Social Affairs, the Minister of Defence, and the Prime Minister, ignoring the recommendations of the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Thus, the Minister of Finance ignored the recommendation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to not open negotiations for this agreement with the American law firm FSS. Instead of cooperating with ministries, he has acted himself and with his political advisors. This behaviour is not part of democratic and open government. Today's Minister of Finance must not continue in his office. The culture of imported lying and the well-established ability to lie are not compatible with the office of minister of the Republic of Estonia. On 16 September, the Minister of Finance lied here in the Riigikogu Question Time, claiming that he has not refused to participate in the Special Committees session. The Minister of Finance has ignored the invitation of the Special Committee on Corruption five times: 9 December 2019, 16 December 2019, 20 January 2020, 10 February 2020 and 29 July 2020. The Minister who obstructs the work of Parliament must not continue in his office. The Minister of Finance has shown superficialness and incompetence in organising state finances. As a financial person, I find it difficult to understand this exciting lending and untargeted borrowing without knowing when and why this loan is going to be used. On September 10, the Minister accused the Governor of Eesti Pank of ideological motivation in "The First Studio" and called the fiscal policy recommendations of Eesti Pank barbaric because they are incompatible with his world view. The consequence of denying the basic truths of finance is chaos in public finances, a decline in the competitiveness of the economy and an increase in tax for all of us. We do not have to learn from our mistakes, it is enough to know the mistakes of other countries. Estonia needs a competent finance minister. National defence has always been a cross-party issue. However, the Minister of Finance has questioned the competence of the Commander of the Defence Forces and intervened as Minister of Finance in the planning of national defence, the Minister of Defence and in the disregard of long-term defence planning. The Minister also has a good preference in this area, who can be chosen as a partner in defence procurement. The Minister lied in the Committee on National Defence on 16 September, claiming that the defence budget would not be used every year due to failure and that the framework agreements would allow additional purchases. This behaviour clearly poses a threat to Estonia's security. The Minister of Finance has named journalists in contempt and refused interviews with a media channel accredited to a government press conference. Such behaviour is not compatible with an open governance culture. Even less can a politician who has behaved this way continue as a member of the government. The Minister of Finance and Chairman of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia have shown their elite content and deserving farmers. He has turned his back on farmers, preventing them from employing legal workers, forsaking that their business model is wrong. He has said that he will not shed tears about his farmers and threatened them with the control of the Tax and Customs Board under his jurisdiction. The Minister of Finance has insulted women, doctors, entrepreneurs, various social groups. He is determined and consciously dividing Estonian society. The behaviour of a member of the government shapes standards and sets an example. As we continue, we step by step away from the path of an open society. As members of the Riigikogu, we have the responsibility to turn the state back on this path. The Minister of Finance ridicules Parliament. The Minister of Finance has appointed the special committees of the Riigikogu as a flea circus and disparaging the Riigikogu with its behaviour and use of words. But the attitude towards the Riigikogu is also expressed by the Minister's attitude towards Estonian citizens and constitutional order. A minister who is condescending to the representation of his people must not continue in his office. Good member of the Riigikogu! We all make mistakes. A courageous and honest person confesses his error and takes public responsibility, but cowardly one denies. The Minister of Finance has repeatedly erred, but does not dare to take responsibility. The words and actions of the Minister of Finance show that it is customary and inherent for him to prefer his own and to ignore transparent government. However, leadership based on merit and return is neither acceptable nor lawful in Estonia; it must never be done. There are some sins that politicians are not forgiven for. And one of them is lying. That is what the Minister of Finance has said. The Minister of Finance must not continue as a member of the government because he has severely damaged Estonia's interests in the ministry. He's earned a lot of mistrust. If you hesitate to vote for mistrust, consider whether justice and justice, honesty and respect, responsibility for your words and actions are important to you. I'm knocking on the conscience of all of us. As members of the Riigikogu, do we tolerate progressive lying and wrestling? If we tolerate it, we are also liars and vagrants and we act against the values of the Estonian people and against the interests of the Estonian state. I call on you to support the mistrust of the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U143	Thank you. Peter Ernits, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U144	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U145	Thank you. Substantial questions can be submitted to the Minister as soon as the Minister has made his presentation. And now I would like to ask the Minister of Finance, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U146	Thank you, Deputy Speaker of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! So, what are we doing here? The whole story is an attempt to divert attention from the fact that Estonia was in power when one of the world's largest money laundering parties took place, today's two opposition parties: the Reform Party and the Social Democratic Party, holding the office of Minister of Finance, the office of Minister of Justice, the office of Minister of the Interior, responsible for ensuring that Estonia's international reputation is protected, responsible for ensuring that there are no crimes in Estonia, including financial crimes, in order to ensure that our financial system is in order. They couldn't handle this responsibility at all. It was a devastating failure that is left over from your period of power in this area. And in order not to talk about it, in order to prevent today's government from cleaning up this mess, a total kabukitheater is designed to be a total kabukitheater, the subject of which is some kind of covered procurement and a legal aid agreement that undermines Estonia's reputation. I would say that today's motion of distrust is probably the new record of this coalition or of the opposition in the composition of this Riigikogu in terms of content. Of course, it's an achievement in itself, but neither have the previous ones had any substance. It is also a desperate cry for power to continue to cover up in order to continue to cover up what it did and what it did. This is an attempt to prevent the actions of today's government, including a clear attempt to prevent the actions of today's government in the fight against money laundering and to clarify money laundering matters. We all understand what's beating you. We all understand! What makes me sad, of course, that bothers me is that endless lies are being presented as if I were lying. I have, of course, repeatedly rejected and rejected these lies, so I will be able to do so today. And, of course, all of this doesn't convince you, that's what we know. But if there was a statement that I've lost your trust, I'm sorry, who are we trying to make fun of here? Neither today's government nor I, as minister of this government, have ever had a moment of trust, support or probably no respect from today's opposition. But I've always told the truth. I've always fought for justice. I have always stood for Estonian tax money to be used sensibly and well. So these accusations are also pure political rhetoric. And if here the previous speaker was concerned that the Estonian political bar has been trampled underground, then I agree with that. The Estonian political lats are trampled underground, trampled by today's opposition, by his fierce campaign of slander. And today's mistrust procedure is also part of this subterranean trampling of political culture. I fully agree that ministers are shaping standards that the word of rulers has a consequence. I'm very aware of that, too. I'd be happy to design these standards. I'm very pleased you don't like it. And we are doing exactly the kind of Estonia that we want to do and why we asked our voters for a mandate and a mandate. I know you don't like it. But that's okay. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U147	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U148	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance! In your speech you have now indicated that the Riigikogu or the opposition is blocking the investigation or that it does not want it. Today's news is the DA's office has told him that he doesn't supply any material to a law firm that's been selected. As far as I know, the DA's office is investigating. Therefore, we cannot prevent the investigation because it is simply not possible under the law. But to my question. Today's Estonian Express has published the story "International Suppression" so it is titled. And there's this quote: "So far, there hasn't been any other significant publication. By sending invitations to tender on 8 June, Helme already knew in advance that two of the three offices would reduce themselves. " Please tell me whether the statement of the Estonian Express is true or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U149	Yeah, thanks! As you know, I don't read Express. And I advise everyone else not to read, but mostly hear false news or lies. But I would first like to respond to that statement from the prosecutor's office. It's a false news report, too. It's fake news, too, sweethearts! No one's asked the D.A. for any investigative material. They're never wanted by anyone. It doesn't make any sense to me to break into an open door. That is not the purpose of this legal aid agreement. The purpose of this legal aid agreement is elsewhere and they have not asked for or wanted any investigative material and have not been offered to them by the prosecutor's office. To talk about this as some huge job victory over me, well, if that's what you can make yourself happy with, please! Of course, as regards this express article on a nebulatic scheme for someone to play in the hands of procurements, everyone thinks about their own level of corruption. I understand that for the Reform Party, it all makes sense what it says. After all, this is your inheritance. Your entire political history is made up of it, starting with R-Maintenance and continuing with the Arsenals and Tallinn Ports and plastic bags. I understand what you're thinking. But I do not understand this accusation because the procurement we made was based on Article 11 (1) (1) (1) of the Public Procurement Act. This is an exception under the Public Procurement Act for which a targeted offer can be made. You don't even have to look, create any competition, you can turn to one particular party and make an offer to him. I would have been able, if I wanted to, to make a deal with Louis Freeh right away, as they say. Then I would have had no need, no need, no need for any complex schemes to create a false contract or any impression that there was some kind of pseudo-procurement that would result in the desired result. That wasn't necessary. This paragraph, on the basis of which we have tendered, would have allowed us to go directly to them and say that we want you, and ask what your price is. That's it! That's what we're talking about. Now, I didn't. Why didn't I? Because unlike what you think of me, I care about Estonian tax money. I wanted to see competition, I wanted to see different offers, different prices, I wanted to see descriptions of the competences of different companies, descriptions of work plans. And I did some prep work for it. I also had advance offers, three companies that we sent out. And for your comfort, what came at last was indeed the cheapest. And now I'm asking you, if I picked out the cheapest deal under a fake contract, what would be the point of all this, this scheme? If I'd known it was a fake deal, I would have done it your way and double the price and then had half the money transferred to the Cayman Islands. But I didn't do it because I didn't need it. So this whole article, what was there, it's completely insane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U150	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U151	Thank you, good manager. Minister of Finance, you stated on the live air of Estonian Television that you are not going to make the mistakes made by the previous government, who looked at the last major recession. This is 2009 when it was at the heart of the recession. You argued that you were not going to make these mistakes because, due to the government at the time, the economy in Estonia recovered most slowly in the European Union. The facts tell us that in 2011-2012, however, the Estonian economy was restored the fastest in the European Union. In 2014, we were among the three fastest recoverers. Do you admit that you were wrong to give an interview live on Estonian Television?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U152	Thank you. No, I wasn't wrong. Your problem, of course, is that you're trying to focus on some sort of sentence piece and then build some kind of huge story. Which means you don't have political fantasy, the ability to perceive the background system, and the ability to generalise. But what I meant by what I said was that when we compare Estonia with other European countries, we compare the level of GDP before the crisis, we compare how long it took the countries to reach and move to pre-crisis GDP levels, then Estonia was among the last. Estonia was one of the countries with the greatest fall, which makes it quite logical that the percentage of this deep fall, from the deepest, deepest bottom we fell into, was also high. But we reached the same level where all the other European countries were, I admit, not the last. There was Greece and a few other countries. But we were a total bottom. And this is the legacy of the Reform Party's economic policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U153	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U154	Thank you. I'd be a little bit more positive. I congratulate you on the fact that last week, probably on Wednesday, you rejected one of your many years of lies. So this is the finance minister being a detective. You acknowledged that we had regulations worthy of the gold medal, which is exactly the role of the Minister of Finance. It was then 2014. And I think there was an interview yesterday with the chairman of the board of the Financial Supervision Authority who said that in 2014 we closed down Danske. In that sense, there is a contradiction in what you say, of course, but I will keep the recognition. Now, in the sense that you have said something like this, you quickly improved and said that the Ministers of the Interior, those who then actually investigate money laundering, have also been from the Reform Party. Please tell me, who were the interior ministers at the beginning of 2007-2014? From 2014, the case was closed. What party were they from, and why have you forgotten about them?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U155	Thank you. You can google these years, of course, but of course the story goes there that they were our coalition mates from the Fatherland today. It's true. And certainly you have to look at them too when we talk about responsibility. Anyone in power at the time still has to take responsibility. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U156	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U157	Thank you, Honourable Vice Speaker. Good minister! We all know that Trump brought back an honest policy that Brexit brought back an honest policy that Orban and the Visegrád countries brought back an honest policy that EKRE brought back an honest policy to Estonia. We all know that ten years of brutal money laundering took place in Estonia, for which at least the moral responsibility should be borne by the previous speaker. And here's my question. Why should a group of people who have been involved in dishonest politics just about the funds, plastic bags, etc. already mentioned, trust a person who has brought back an honest policy to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U158	Thank you. It is, I don't know, a question of a million dollars or a trillion dollars, or how much the money was flowing through Estonia. 200 billion, as they say now, were suspicious money. This is probably the money that passed through Estonia. FinCEN, the US Financial Supervisory Authority under the US Department of Justice, has collected a lot of documents and some of these documents have been made public. We also read in Estonian publications that there was a period in which one-eighth, every eight currency units that had been washed money, moved through Estonia. Thus, 12.5% of the world's money laundering occurred during some period, according to their data, through Estonia. Estonia has a population of 0.014% of the world's population. Maybe in some kind of disproportion. But it was the percentage that he was, I'm sure you must also understand that all the money we classify as suspicious money may not be criminal money. But it is clear that when mass money laundering took place in Estonia, he was affected. He must have influenced the people operating in Estonia; he influenced the bankers operating in Estonia; he influenced the people working in Estonia; he influenced politicians, lawyers. This circle of people who were involved in this, who made transactions of either good will or bad will with these fictitious or criminal funds, I think, is completely panicked at the actions of today's government. I think we are seeing this panic pretty well here in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U159	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U160	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Finance! When Andres Sutt was reporting a motion of distrust here, you were smiling and nodding on several places. My question is, do you admit any claims he made? Do you admit he was telling the truth? Do you admit that you have acted and said wrong? I particularly noticed when insults were brought to Estonian women's doctors. Do you admit that you've hurt our ladies' doctors?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U161	Thank you. Well, that's another lie. I have never insulted any Estonian women's doctor. It's a complete nonsense. Of course, offense is a thing that cannot be objectively measured. If anyone wants to be offended by the fact that, well, I've met a lot of people who always take offense at everything, whether there's a reason or not. We live in a culture of offense today. There are different ways of motivating insults in society. But I have not offended anyone. Well, if anyone's offended, I'd say, "Get your shit together." But the answer to the question that I smiled about is that I was in contact with my dear husband and that I always feel good about communicating with him.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U162	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U163	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Good Minister of Finance! I'm not really offended either. I've been in politics long enough, that's all right. But I have a very simple question. On Monday, Mr Louis Freeh and his delegation arrived on the territory of the Republic of Estonia. Who sent the application to the Police and Border Guard Board? Who signed this letter so that they could exceptionally come from the airport of the Republic of Estonia, Lennart Meri Airport, to the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U164	Thank you. I can't answer whose signature was on the letter. I asked my ministry to take care of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U165	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U166	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much for your presentation, Minister, but I have a feeling that you have been basking the facts again. In fact, on 21 September in the "Actual Camera," hosted by Louis Freeh asked: "Do you need cooperation with the Estonian prosecutor's office? "The answer is, "Yes, absolutely." "What if they refuse?" "I don't think they refuse. I've met the Attorney General, we've spoken to him on the phone, we have a confidentiality agreement with the Financial Supervision Authority. I think with the DA's office we're gonna make it this week. This satisfies the privacy issues of data protection. We can get information and give it to the U.S. Attorneys. " And later, they quote from Parma, who said they couldn't. You said you didn't even ask the DA's office that Louis Freeh hadn't even asked. Yet on the "Actual Camera" news, he said he was going to ask. And the Attorney General said he couldn't give.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U167	Thank you. Well, here we are! The opposition is back in the fold. I'm not saying you're lying all the time. Well, that's what you're doing, anyway, but you're whipped. The data and cooperation of criminal investigations are confused with the mind. They had a meeting today. Sitting down, talking about things, making plans, already this is co-operation, co-operation. Claim that there will be no cooperation after a working meeting has been held; this is not true. Can't say there's no cooperation. Confidentiality agreement... Estonia has its own laws, including the Data Protection Act, the Personal Data Protection Act, which may have nothing to do with criminal investigations. That goes for other things. So here, on purpose, different things are being confused and they're trying to make it look like something that doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U168	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U169	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm looking at this motion of distrust, and I think there's another point missing here: item 8 that your grandfather was wearing moored slippers. But as far as lying is concerned, lying has been here many times. And in my opinion, those who make a plea of mistrust should look around in their company, who lies the most around here. But now I'm gonna come to the bottom of it. Here is the final résumé that Martin Helme cannot continue as a minister because he is severely harming Estonia's interests. I kind of agree with that statement, though I'd like to edit a little bit. He harms the interests of some persons in Estonia, i.e. those who participated in the money laundering process. Perhaps they are also among the politicians in this Chamber, and there are certainly many people who are now influencing the opposition's distrust. How do you comment on my statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U170	Thank you. I assure you, my grandfather wasn't wearing moored slippers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U171	Henn Põllaas, is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U172	Yeah, thanks! Not a question, but a note. I was asked to forward to the chair that the hearing was not quite good. Is it possible to turn up the sound?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U173	Thank you. Let's pass this message on to the technical staff. If possible, it will be done. Hopefully the understanding is okay, no problems, just the hearing. Let's keep going. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U174	Thank you very much. Minister of Finance! In general, a good discussion, or even a dispute and confrontations, is conducted in such a way that, when argumented facts and arguments are presented, they are also answered in the same way. At the moment, when Andres Sutt filed a plea of mistrust, he presented many arguments and facts, and you had 20 minutes to respond in the same way. You had the opportunity to argue against all the arguments put forward in the motion of censure. Instead, you submitted a very short, subjective assessment and counterattack response, so I didn't understand anything. Do you agree or do you not agree with these arguments? For example, do you agree or disagree with these claims about lying, claims about loan rules and the work of the Ministry of Finance, or the work of the Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U175	Thank you. It still turns out that not just by hearing, but by understanding, some people have a problem. I did not hear any facts or much argument in this line of complaints. I think there was a whole bunch of subjectivity and a whole bunch of lies about lying. This is still a very typical situation: the question is whether you have already stopped drinking your cognac in the morning. If you say I am, then you're guilty of drinking until now, if you say you aren't, then you're drinking on. I'm sure I'm not going along with this game, but I'm just saying it's clear. I categorically reject all these charges.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U176	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U177	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister of Finance! You have made statements in the media as if Estonia had framework agreements with which to acquire the essential mid-ground anti-aircraft and anti-ship missile systems. You also made the same statement at the extraordinary meeting of the National Defence Committee on 16 September. However, in the same session, both the Minister of Defence and the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Defence rejected this argument. Estonia does not have such agreements. Question: which one is lying, you or the Secretary of Defense?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U178	Thank you. You see, the Riigikogu commission called, we made the time, I came. The fact that I don't go to committees is bullshit. Framework agreements... It is true that I had the understanding and information that we had a contract with a weapons manufacturer who could buy beach defense missiles. And this agreement is a framework agreement. This agreement is a framework agreement, but it does not extend to other weapons systems. Maybe the truth is somewhere in between. And I think it is bad faith or maliciousness, if, in the case of one contract, we say, at best, such a general understanding or a debatable vision, and after the details of this agreement are clarified, it is claimed that prior understanding was lying. No, it wasn't. I had another idea. I am not arguing about what was said in this committee: that this agreement will not allow us to obtain another weapons system. But the truth is, with this company that manufactures these weapons, we have a framework agreement, just about another weapon system. So to blame me that I've been lying awfully now, well, once again, I say it's maliciousness. But I am not arguing that, under this framework agreement, the weapons that I would recommend to purchase cannot be purchased. If the DOD says the terms don't allow it, they won't.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U179	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U180	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good minister! The activities of the Reform Party and Social Democrats around the US law firm involved in the investigation of large-scale money laundering in Estonia have already become hysterical. For their information and for the sake of general clarity, can you tell me how many law firms in the world have the capacity to investigate international financial crimes and charge fines for it? Are there hundreds, thousands, or tens?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U181	Thank you. This is, in fact, an important question, because there has also been a great deal of public confusion about this issue, in order not to say, a lie to the public. It became clear from the very first questions that nothing has been done wrong in this 'procurement' process. Blaming me for making some kind of deal I've been playing in my hand is insane. But I'd like to remind you of a few simple things. In February 2019, during the previous government, before the elections of the Riigikogu, the Central Party, the Fatherland and the Social Democrats are in the government coalition, and Urmas Reinsalu is the Minister of Justice. The Ministry of Justice will carry out a thorough legal analysis and take it to the government and the content of this analysis is that it is possible to legal aid abroad. The item was called international cooperation in relation to the money laundering case of Danske Bank. It is in the government on 28 February 2019. And these points of the resolution were such that a decision was taken: the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, presented to the meeting of the Cabinet of Government an overview of the possibilities of international cooperation in relation to the money laundering case of Danske Bank. This was accompanied by an in-depth analysis by the Ministry of Justice, but it was no longer dealt with, as the elections were launched. Basically, it was practically the last government hearing before the elections. Now, the election was off, the new government came. In this new government, part of the government was the same as before the elections, and the new government continued to do so. Based on the same analysis that had already been carried out, he continued on the subject. Only the ministerial portfolios had changed. I moved it to the government, and I got, let's say, a signal, that's right, let's go. And since then, I have been working on a market survey, a work that could be termed market research in a very simple language. During this market survey, we addressed some very prestigious lawyers or law firms in Estonia. We're talking about people, we turned to lawyers, people on the board of the bar Association. First, we asked whether we had the capacity in Estonia to cooperate internationally, what competence there must be, what grip must be. Basically, it became clear quite immediately that there are no law firms in Estonia with this capacity. We expanded our search and it became clear quite quickly that it had to be an office that was international. It must be an office that operates in a basically white world, that is, North America and Europe. It must be an office with experience of financial regulation or financial crime. And now a very important point, this is a very important point in our entire dispute: this office must not have a conflict of interest. The number of such offices in the world is not in thousands, not even in hundreds, is actually in tens. We don't want any office around the corner selling us foam. We want offices that have real capabilities, who have a real team, who employ people who have actually worked in regulatory bodies, banks, supervisors, who have worked either in the prosecutor's office or have been otherwise exposed to corporate regulation. The kind of companies that employ people who have worked in both North America and Europe, who do not have a conflict of interest either with Nordic banks or with different Russian companies or public authorities, that is actually the end of where money laundering money comes from, there are not many such companies. There were not many companies left behind, and some of them said at the outset that they did not provide such legal services to the countries. Basically, it doesn't. I've been doing this market research for at least six months, actually. And the number of companies to go on in the first place was very small. And as we finally saw, when the so-called task was specified, it turned out that some companies said they had a conflict of interest. So these companies are few.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U182	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U183	Of course, it is not quite true that there are few law firms in America that lobby American government agencies. There's a lot of them. There are also many who do not have conflicts of interest with banks, for example, I believe. There's just a lot of lawyers in America. But my question still concerns this contract. You said there was no need to tender for this legal aid. However, you called on three agencies to offer, knowing that two of them had already said before that they had a conflict of interest; they were not involved in this matter. In your answer to the question of Mart Võrguship, you said that you did this because you wanted to get a cheaper offer. However, if you knew in advance that these two would not make an offer, why this theater? You yourself say that you could have chosen directly, and you have had a very clear desire to choose the particular office that the Foreign Intelligence Service and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said was not recommended. Then why did you still do this whole procurement thing when you knew two agencies weren't participating?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U184	Thank you. I would point out that, of course, there are thousands of lobbyists on K Street, but there are not thousands of law firms that also have the capacity to work in Europe, with experience of contact, with a representative network in Europe. And we weren't looking for a lobbyist company, we were looking for a company with people with real work experience in the supervision of international financial regulation. This is a very important restriction. Of course you're talking to your lap and your back. But the claim that I knew in advance that those we'd invite wouldn't say no anyway isn't true. That's not true! I know what you are referring to, this has also been on committees. You're referring to the fact that a background study from the embassy says that companies are suggesting that they may have a conflict of interest. It's a fundamental disclaimer that a lot of companies put in. Until they knew what the exact work was, what case they would be dealing with, they could not say whether or not they had a conflict of interest. This issue of conflict of interest is, of course, another thing with which the public has been crazed and misled quite a lot. The conflict of interest is a very specific and clear matter; it is very clearly defined both in Estonia and in Europe and in America. A conflict of interests, quite simply, means that you can be the representative of the opposite parties in the same case. In the same case or, let's say, the counterparty client becomes your client at the same time. This conflict of interest has not been established by the agreement of Louis Freeh, Sporkin & Sullivan. No one's ever identified it, but it's always being blamed. They said they could perform. They may occur in.. it's a common disclamer. They said this because they did not know what the final task would be. Let me give you a specific example. They could have said if you only wanted Danske to do the job, we could. If you put Swedbank next to him, we can't. This ultimately depended on what the task was. So to say in that sense that I had known that they wouldn't come anyway, it wasn't true. They had just warned that they might have a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U185	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U186	Thank you, Mr President. Minister. Since you've repeatedly confirmed that everything that's in the motion of mistrust is wrong, I'm asking, just in case, if everything you're saying here is wrong. And continuing in a paraphrasing tone, I would like to ask whether the EKRE really asked for a mandate for international false procurement. Indeed, such a specific, even one could say, charge has been set up by today's Estonian Express. Indeed, there is also a very specific factual justification in the form of an example that has already been cited several times: on 8 June, when these tenders were sent out, it was clear that two of them were unlikely to participate. Where was the rush to? Why didn't you think it was necessary to look for more companies so that there would really be an actual competition? Do you have the courage to turn to the court against the Estonian Express to refute these claims if they are false? The readers of the Estonian Express are in the order of 100,000 people, they have received false information and if you do not dare to go to court, the arguments of the Express are clearly correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U187	Thank you. The Express Group is on our side with a lawsuit alert because of another story. But you can race every calf. If there's an institution that produces false news from morning to night, then we're gonna keep going to trial. Maybe it's your smart tactic to bankrupt us from how I know. But I just explained to Kaja Kallas that it was not clear, it was not certain that they would actually fall out of the procurement. I'm also pointing out what that sentence is. This is the statement in the State Department's memo that these companies reported that they had been dealt with before, in fact, by the so-called Ministry of Finance or by us, and that they have announced that they might have a conflict of interest. This is not a definite way of speaking; they did not confirm that they could not do so. In this communication it was never very clear that we could not do this in any way, but that it depended on the end of the job placement. That is what comes from the procurement. They look at the procurement task and then assess whether or not they have a conflict of interest. They can't make that assessment until then because it's case-by-case, it's task-based. And the claim that I was involved in false procurement just isn't the right argument. Well, I don't know how better, somehow more to reject it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U188	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U189	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I didn't get an answer to my question, but now you've explained it later. But still, this whole Express story clearly gives the reader the impression that there's been a false contract at the head of your person. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance supervises the implementation of the Public Procurement Act, the Public Procurement Review Committee works at the Ministry of Finance. What do you say today to the state institutions and local authorities that the Ministry of Finance supervises and who are often accused of violating or neglecting the Public Procurement Act? Is this law for everyone to comply with, or can it only be complied with selectively: the Minister does not have to comply with and observe everything that is produced by the law, but others must?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U190	Of course, the express has given us the impression of nothing else, except the impression that we are villains and villains and that the sky is about to fall on the ground. Of course, the whole point of the article is to make an impression. Perhaps there are people I doubt there are 100,000 people who might be impressed. But I would point out that public procurement is taking place. The Ministry of Finance has two ministers, one with Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration, and the other with Mart Helme, Minister of Finance. The party to the public procurement register is Jaak Aab's. I would also point out that the Ministry of Justice prepared this specific legal aid agreement at the bottom. This was helped by the Ministry of Justice, who has mostly tendered legal aid and who basically used the same material or preliminary work in the Tallinn Water case for legal assistance in arbitration court. And I already told everyone else that I was the one who complied with the law. I followed the law accurately and correctly, even reading this passage in this very hall a little while ago. This section has not been violated, no one has been able to show with which it has been violated. And Jaak Aab's watchful eyes may have been able to review it as well, perhaps you believe that the minister is looking at all the procurements from that register. But I think I set an example for local governments and all other ministers to comply with the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U191	Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U192	Thank you, Honourable Vice Speaker. Good minister. Very short question: has the U.S. office already started working with the Estonian authorities? And how will you assess the start of cooperation when it has already begun?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U193	Thank you. Yes, it is. They are four employees of this legal aid office, including Louis Freeh, on a two-day visit to Estonia. They have held meetings at the Estonian Public Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Finance, the Financial Supervision Authority. And what's really nice is they had a half-day interview with whistleblowers last night. That was really nice. They'll be back soon. From there, a whole bunch of further contacts began to spread out. They have already done interviews with people who do not reside in Estonia, but who used to work in banking. And now I would like to point out, before everyone starts screaming, that they must not carry out criminal investigation or other research, that the purpose of these interviews is to help the American financial regulation in vain to better understand what took place in the Estonian banking sector during the period for which proceedings have been initiated in the institutions there. These procedures are both civil proceedings and criminal proceedings. But our office doesn't deal with the criminal side, it deals with the civilian side. And in order for everyone to understand better the background of how American supervisory authorities fine these various multinational corporations that they fine, and these fines, as you know, can be very, very large, we are talking sometimes about billions, I will explain that they are putting together material that shows that either regulation has been systematically violated or internal order has been violated or internal order has not been established in accordance with regulation. And on this basis, they claim or say that this or another institution, it may not be a bank, it may be an insurance company, it may be another thing, I don't know, a cartel thing, that this or another company has not done the right thing in good faith and due diligence. And it's followed by a fine. They don't need to have any criminal proceedings, they have to put this information together. And that's what they've already started to do. But as far as meetings with Estonian state institutions are concerned, I will say once again that I communicated with them today. They were very positive. I haven't read the papers today, I've saved my mental health. I don't know what it says, but the feedback from the people themselves is very positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U194	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U195	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, as regards what you thought about those in the Chamber, their comprehension, I would say that the mills of law enforcement are grinding slowly, but certainly fairly. But a question for you. On 11 May 2020, you received a memo from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the content of which actually excluded the employment of the FSS. Why, however, did you enter into a contract and what instructions did you give as a minister to your advisors and the officials of the Ministry of Finance after receiving this memo?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U196	Thank you. I didn't actually understand the introduction. What law enforcement mills are we talking about, and who's supposed to get caught up in it? But I'm working on it, too, yeah. The contents of the memo are, of course, once again presented as a bit of a second when it is. The report by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the same report of 11 May, says: on the basis of the communication that had taken place, the embassy was impressed, as the Express had the impression that other public authorities had been in contact with these three companies in the past. And that... But no, it's the second place, I'm reading the second paragraph. Well, I can't find that passage right now, but I've got it. It says this, there were two things to say. First, the memo of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs says the memo of the Estonian embassy, which we have not published in full, so it is easy to prove our claims by pieces with this memo, but first, he says that we have not checked the arguments submitted to us and we cannot verify it. We've been talking to people, and people have been telling us this, the other and the third, but we can't control it. It's very important. Secondly, it says that the people who spoke to us have advised us not to cooperate with this company. Now you're saying it was a recommendation from the State Department or embassy to rule it out. But that concludes the sentence. It does not say whether we agree with this recommendation or whether we disagree with this recommendation. And, as I have said in the committees, this memo was followed by questions that we would clarify, because these accusations there were very general, if not abstract. Well, after talking to us, it's got the impression that they may not have a good reputation in Washington for all people. So, what are we gonna do with this? It has to be quantified or qualified somehow. From its surface, just to say that, clearly, flies into the trash can, well, I disagree, I want a more thorough explanation. And I took those explanations. But what's important, I met them myself, one of those companies, I went there myself, a whole delegation sat on the other side of the table, our meeting lasted two hours. We were talking about financial crimes, about their ability, about what our desire is, what we would even like, how we would like to move forward, what this whole framework is in America, how we should do these things. And I also met Louis Freeh, basically one to one. But that was all before we made the deal. And yet, your eye is king, you can somehow appreciate the professionalism of these people, say, how much they pay attention to this topic in the first place, or for them it's just some sort of contract where cash is paid in. And it's important in the context of all of this. One is a superficial memo, which says that we really cannot control the accusations made by the people who have spoken to us. And the other is my own basically job interview with people. I'm putting these two things on the table. Whether you want it or not, I consider the outcome of my interview more important.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U197	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U198	Thank you. Mr. Helme! It's impressive how you believe that you have the natural talent to do market research on legal aid. You're saying you've been doing them for six months. That's fantastic! But in general we have very good cooperation, the opposition will receive many expected answers today. And we also had very good cooperation in special committees on Monday. You got away with answering most of the time, but you brought us Louis Freeh," who we didn't study, but who we could very well compare your words to his. And we learned a lot of things about how this procurement was planted, for example, and another important thing about how it speaks your words. I especially liked this place when he suddenly began to defend it with the same morals as Prevezon, which the devil, as you had said here on Wednesday, is that Prevezon has never been convicted of what we are talking about at all. And the argument was that he has paid off the fine and that it is as pure as any conflict. Tell me if that's very clever. So do you consider the fine of the treaty and the criminal investigation you denied in another response today to be completely different things?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U199	Thank you. I am terribly pleased that we are not holding this discussion behind closed doors where a meeting can not be held for 45 minutes in a row. I would say that the ability to lead a five-member Commission is probably as great as the ability to run a ministry or to lead the fight against money laundering as a minister of finance. And here we are. But I quit that meeting. Like I said, I needed to be at the next meeting. We had agreed on a specific window of time, but during this window of time, a leader of the Commission had no ability to put two simple questions to the vote or to understand what the agenda was. So here you can tell all the stories that were said behind closed doors, because it was behind closed doors. And, of course, it has been practice since August that our ambassadors come out of that meeting and talk about a version of the birth, but opposition ambassadors come out of that meeting room, and it seems that there has been a completely parallel world. It doesn't make any sense. Everything's completely different. Well, I'm not gonna do it right now... And I also have to say that I wasn't there and I didn't know what you were talking about there with Louis Freeh. I hear Jürgen Ligi had apologized to Louis Freeh." That's what they told me. Maybe someone can specify what it was for or for or what it was about. I have heard that Jürgen Ligi did not ask Louis Freeh any questions about Prevezon or the Senate report, nothing like that. But maybe I heard wrong. I wasn't at that meeting. Now, my ability to procure. Well, yeah... I like it, I really like the way the Reform Party systematically builds a myth about Martin Helmes as Jupiter. I do not dispute at all that I am leading the government, I am leading half of Estonia. I must say that I am leading the opposition. Do you know that? I lead the opposition! As we know, we went to that meeting, the question mark was in the air, whether or not there would be a motion of mistrust. And I was able to provoke the Reform Party so properly that there was a fire.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U200	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U201	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance! I would like to ask a question with a critical undertone. It is customary in the EKRE as a democratic party to be open and democratic. I specifically ask that, on the subject of money laundering, this is not your area of activity, but you have been unduly benevolent. You have failed to mention one thing: the security aspect. As long as we do not understand money laundering, people involved in money laundering are manipulative and pose a security risk. You have been too benevolent and have not paid attention to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U202	Thank you. I accept the criticism. You see, I'm capable of accepting criticism. This is a very important aspect that will be lost in the middle of all the wood circulating in the air, which we call a parliamentary debate. Money laundering, the main source of this illegal money that moved through Estonia, was Russia. The very important movers of this illegal money are the Russian oligarchs, so as not to say the people close to Putin, but also the Russian special services, which may be one and the same, which to a very large extent are overlapping things. Putin's neighborhoods, special services siloviki. I had a conversation last October at the American Ministry of Finance with the American Deputy Finance Minister. The main emphasis of this conversation, which disturbed the Americans, was, in fact, the security aspect: that in the course of this money laundering, which took place not only through Estonia but, of course, also through Latvia, through Finland, as we have learned, the Russian special services moved their money, which they will later carry out special political operations in the Western world. They're making their way there through shadow companies, so-called space for action. And those people who helped or participated in this in Estonia are basically blackmailed by the Russians, have basically got themselves involved in Russian intelligence games. They are Kremlin agents in Estonia, not Louis Freeh.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U203	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U204	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! How, then, did the text of the legal aid agreement relating to money laundering and the invitation to tender be prepared? You have previously said here that the documents for organising the competition have been drawn up by the advisers. The councillors said no. Today you came up with a new contractor, the Ministry of Justice. We still don't know what they'd say when that message gets there. So who did?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U205	Thank you. Basically, the procedure was simple. The procedure started because the previous government decided that we wanted to do it. And then the government did some preliminary work to explain how to proceed. Then it was in the office, if I remember correctly, at the end of last year. And we continued in March this year. On 11 March I submitted my memo and documents to the government, and on 19 March it was in the office for discussion. The debate was substantive. We didn't make a decision yet, I got feedback from it, and a week later, on 26 March, there was another cabinet debate. And this cabinet discussion was followed by a decision, that decision was: in principle, I was authorised to do this legal aid agreement and it was also said that for this it was necessary to cooperate with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which I did. I'm just going to read a little bit about what this cabinet decision was: the Minister of Finance will sign a contract with the best bidder to provide legal services in accordance with the memorandum presented at the meeting, by the way, I signed a contract with the best bidder, the Ministry of Finance to carry out a procedure to identify the legal representative, involving the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. And another point, which has been completely lost, but which is also very important to us: the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice will develop a solution for the appointment of an Estonian Special Representative to the United States of America to improve the fight against money laundering, no essentially an attaché there. And then there were the money points. This was followed by meetings or contacts between the Ministry of Justice and the Chancellor of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in April to discuss how to implement this government decision. And the Chancellor of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs gave his so-called cooperation contacts in their ministries on 14 and 15 April. On 20 April, the Ministry of Finance already sent out an in-depth survey of this background survey. Then the information came, and we sent this notification to the Ministry of Justice about the collection of background information from the three law firms through the US embassy. We also immediately sent a letter to the Estonian American embassy, the Estonian embassy in the United States. Then we got that background memo from there. And how'd that buy go on? On 21 May, the Legal Service of the Ministry of Finance already sent an invitation to tender with the additions to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs through their Chancellors. And there were no differences previously agreed in this invitation to tender. I can't find this whole time line right here, but I'll come back again to the fact that the Ministry of Justice gave us the bottom of this legal service contract and it was based on the materials of the Tallinn Water Case. This was helped by our own specialists in the Public Procurement Department, so it was, in fact, all at the level of officials.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U206	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U207	Thank you very much, Honourable Vice-Chairman. Mr. Minister! I want to explain whether you are struggling with a web of your woven lies or whether there are other things that I and the Estonian public do not know. However, I saw with my own eyes how Louis Freeh said in the "Actual Camera": I think we can get information and give it to the U.S. Attorneys. I read a quote from Delfis's Attorney General Andres Parmas: "It is certainly not possible to have access to criminal files, whether there is a separate expert or a law firm hired from another country. "Parmas says that Freeh" cannot be a task to participate in Estonian criminal proceedings. "We are dealing with this ourselves, and we are also communicating with the U.S. law enforcement authorities themselves and directly," he said. I'm sure neither one of them was wrong or lying. You told me that this is about other things, that there are different things being confused on purpose. What are the things that I deliberately messed up? Of course, I didn't mean to, but I certainly don't know everything. Are there any other agreements that you have concluded with the Louis Freeh office and which the Estonian public does not know?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U208	Thank you. No, there are certainly no other contracts. Well, if Parmas says that he doesn't want to go through the middleman in criminal matters, but he's going straight to the American businessmen, I don't see any problem here. This has been the case in Estonia all along. The question is, let's think about the scale of America for a second. Let's think about the scale of America! One member of the Freeh, Sporkin & Sullivan team is a former District Attorney in the United States, with 140 prosecutors working under his command. We have the same size of prosecutors in Estonia at all. In America, let's say, there are thousands of financial crimes, thousands of people are being treated all the time. What is the point of this legal aid agreement? To make sure that this particular case, which is dealt with there by very different authorities, is dealt with by very different institutions... I stress: as public authorities, the American Public Prosecutor's Office and the Estonian Public Prosecutor's Office have a direct link, and there really is no need for assistance from outside or outside. But there are other bodies: financial supervision authorities at state level, federal level, different regulators, there are them like mail dogs. And we need them to get everything they need out of our case, including information they can't afford. Because ultimately what Parmas says is that if we are asked something, we will. But how do they know to ask? How do they know if you don't tell them, did you ask? How do they know about any material that's not even part of a criminal investigation? The scope of criminal investigation in Estonia can be very small. There's only one suspect in the Swedbank case. We have a lot of information, even if it is witnesses who may not be interested in the prosecution's case, but who can be taken to America, who are talking about other matters, not criminal matters, but other matters, regulatory matters. The point of this agreement is to find it and deliver it to the Americans on a tray. And then when the Americans say that the Estonian authorities should ask them something too, then the Estonian authorities ask them and then the American authorities ask us, give us this also. And then the DA's office will testify. We're gonna make this information move faster, we're gonna make this information move a priority in our dealings with the Americans. We will achieve what we want. We will achieve that these things will not be unexplored, there will be no liability. That's what this whole thing is all about.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U209	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U210	Thank you very much. It's getting more and more important. Minister of Finance! I have the impression from your previous answers that you seem to understand that you have been charged with some kind of violation of the law. No, in fact, there is a plea of mistrust in lying, in misbehaving to the Minister, in disparaging other ministers, and also in worsening the state of public finances. But instead, you're talking about money laundering and you're accusing the Ministers of the Fatherland of money laundering. But for a change, I'm going to ask you a very simple question about the issues that have been here a lot. How much support is there among the Estonian people for being an Estonian state in the European Union? If you don't know that percentage, it'll be enough if you tell me if most or less people support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U211	I dare say that Estonia's public finances have been complicated not by the Minister of Finance Martin Helme, but by the government of Jüri Ratas, but by the coronavir of the Chinese Communist Party. Here, I think you can tell me again that I'm Jupiter, but I'm not. Unfortunately or, fortunately, no, it is not, and it is still a virus from the Chinese lab that has turned all public finances upside down. I dare say we've done quite well in this situation. Now, when it comes to insulting other ministers, I do not know how my colleagues appreciate it, but I generally think I have a pretty good relationship with all my colleagues. With some I argue more, with some less, we have different ideologies with very many ministers who are ideologically at the other end of the scale. But with Jüri Luige last week, I had several meetings and several conversations, and it was not humiliating or offensive to either party, but it was working and I find it productive. Tanel Kiige and I are arguing about issues, and we are on the same side. And I haven't heard anyone complain that I've humiliated them. And frankly, if I am, we should come and talk to me, we'll see. But the support of the European Union has been more or less the same since the referendum: one third of people do not like it and two thirds seem to have a good idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U212	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U213	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You have questioned the authority of the Commander of the Defence Forces in public. Please tell me which analysis and expertise your suspicion is based on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U214	Thank you. Doubtful? I do not know if that is a doubt, I would say that this is a clearly established position. It's based on what he's saying. It's based on two things. I do not think that if we have a Commander of the Defence Forces who says that politicians must not give him any guidance on defence, we have, like, a very fundamental constitutional crisis and a civil control problem. I think that if we have an argument about whether Estonia needs or does not need mid-earth air control, and the Commander of the Defence Forces says that no, Estonia does not need it, although everyone has spoken, including himself, and his development plans say that it is a gap, it is a problematic gap, then I have a serious problem with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U215	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U216	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I think your arrogance and indiscretion reached a new level today when you answered Jüri Jaanson's first question, pointing out that a good questioner does not hear well. You might want to think about it a little bit. But it really doesn't make any sense to me how the best price can be obtained from the market if it is known in advance that two candidates are giving up, or that there may not be a price offer at all. And here's my question: in this case, is this a fake deal to play a contract with one of the candidates?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U217	Thank you. I certainly didn't try to make fun of Jüri Jaanson's bad hearing. I referred to the fact that we have had a debate here on which he said that he does not understand. And this has nothing to do with hearing, this has to do with following the argument or the arguments put forward in the dispute. But I don't get it again. How many times do I have to explain that there was no set-up? There was no reason to do that. If I'd been playing with someone, it's pretty likely the one who'd finally stayed on the sieve wouldn't have been the cheapest bidder. We can describe it all again, but I don't know if it makes any sense anymore. I do not think that understanding of this will improve even after re-explaining, either for those people who have very sharp hearing or for those who have poor hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U218	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U219	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Good minister! You have been relatively critical of those ministers who have been responsible for money laundering in Estonia. As we know, there have been or are currently seven banks closed, some have not closed, some have done hundreds of millions of transactions that have been suspicious. Some banks have been shut down, bank licenses have been withdrawn, some will continue to operate. Knowing your clarity, I ask you: are you also prepared to take away the banking licenses of the banks that are still operating today?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U220	Thank you. Now I understand you want to cause market panic with my statement that Swedbank's license will be revoked. Well, there won't be. That's definitely not gonna happen. The goal is to take care of three very big things in principle. First, make sure that Estonian capital markets work. Estonian capital markets can function if everyone follows the same rules and honestly. It can't be that in the same market, some guys are making a bad guy, and others are trying to be honest around there. Secondly, care must be taken to ensure that banks in this functioning capital market offer credit to businesses, under conditions of competition and at reasonable prices. Here we have a headache that, figuratively speaking, after hitting a tree, the banks have put their seat belt on. After the huge money laundering scandals, we have just begun to mechanically close client accounts and block transfers to show that we are fighting money laundering. Must be more intelligent. You must not, in principle, simply start to block the freedom of entrepreneurs to do business. I have had several meetings with them on this subject and I have made it clear that it must still be possible to distinguish between honest companies, who must not be sacrificed, that we have a money laundering problem, and those companies that must not be allowed to make deals. And three: these banks themselves. These banks themselves must make an effort to clean up their reputation, point one, their internal control mechanisms and risk appetites, and point two. It is necessary to clean up our reputation with Estonia's reputation. The more competition in the Estonian banking market, the better as customers, the better the risks have been mitigated. I wish there were more banks here. I wish there were more domestic banks here. I wish there were more international banks here. Because we all know that there is a market in Estonia, well, I wouldn't say monopolised, but two banks hold 80% of the market or a little less maybe. This is certainly not good from a competitive point of view. But we will certainly not improve this situation if we take one or two of them and shut them down. I daresay it'll get much worse.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U221	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U222	Thank you. Good minister! I'm sorry that this sequence of wrestling, misleading and lying gets an extension today. Of course, we may have a different understanding of what lying means. But I'll just give you a few examples. You indicated that when you decided to find this office in your office, it was based on a memorandum presented at the meeting of the Cabinet on 28 February 2019 on the possibility of international cooperation in cases of breaches of the rules against money laundering in Danske Bank and the possibility of obtaining penalty money there. In this respect, the Ministry of Justice has said that this memorandum has no connection with this agreement and that they have not actually ordered any other legal analysis. You also mentioned that this law firm is one of the few that could be found, as it should also have representation in Europe. I look at their website, there are three cities where they are represented: New York, Washington D.C. and Palm Beach. Which one is in Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U223	Thank you. Look, I don't know what the Justice Department has said. I congratulate you on your proper homework, the papers have been read, everything has been made perfectly clear. After all, this memo talked... basically it was doing a political wish autopsy. So if this political desire continues to exist, this analysis will be competent. What are the possibilities, which are the legal framework, which are things that we can or should do, that is completely competent. If they say it's not directly related to this or that it's not related to the next procurement, well, maybe that's just the way it is. But the substantive debate, the substantive consideration of whether we want to deal with it, had already been done once. There were elections, there was a new government, they asked if we wanted to move on. Yes, we do. Now what you're referring to is a legal analysis of this perspective. But here everything is very simple: if you do not go to court, there is no obligation to carry out a legal analysis of the perspective. This paragraph we are talking about, this 'obligation' or the need to carry out a legal analysis of the perspective, is only in those cases where a court is seised. We have no intention of going to court.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U224	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U225	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Finance! Calling Estonian women doctors murderers is, in my opinion, not only an insult, but also a crime. But I quote your words in Question Time a week ago. I think it's just embarrassing how one very, very favorable, very, very smart and very well-connected top American player has been taken up, and he is just slanderous, brutally slanderous here in the Estonian frog team. Do you think it is appropriate for the Minister to subjugate the Estonian state and question his independence to decide his own affairs and discuss them in the Estonian Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U226	Thank you. It seems to me that you have now equalized Jürgen Ligi and Estonia. It hasn't even been so grand Jürgen.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U227	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U228	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good Minister, we were convinced today that you are a great demagogue, can spin, vasssa, you are trying to speak black clearly white, even though it often does not work very well. So, Martin, I ask you, could you answer the next question honestly and specifically, without a twist? As we know, last week we had a meeting of the National Defence Committee where we discussed defence investments. It suddenly became clear to a lot of people on that committee that you have a specific purchase of a weapons system on the table with a particular Israeli company for a specific amount and that you would be ready to sign right away. Maybe you can describe to us as accurately as possible how this contract got on your desk, what this decision-making process was, why this company is preferred. And the other side: is it now a good practice that investments in defence are planned and signed in the office of the Minister of Finance, not in the Ministry of Defence or the Defence Forces?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U229	Thank you. Juske-Juske, where have you been, that you just discovered that I'm a demagogue? This offer is not just for me, it is completely transparent. It's all very transparent, because this offer has been introduced to everyone who wants it. This offer will be introduced, let's say, by the person who is the official sales representative of this gun company. It's a common practice that they go out and try to sell their goods. [[Something they say in the hall.]] Raivo Tamm, that's right, yes. And the technical details and advantages of this offer, including the possible time frame, as far as I know, should at least be offered to introduce it to anyone who wants to. As far as I know, it's been done to the Department of Defense or the Department of Defense. I can't tell you who exactly, but I've been assured that this summer it's been introduced. The Reform Party certainly thinks that I am a complete specialist in the field of national defence, too, and I manage it, but I reject this claim. What stands out to me is that, according to the technical specifications, this particular weapon system would cover, let's say, a large part of Estonia's strategic airspace in terms of central air protection. This is touching for the protection of both the battle area and the strategic areas, such as Tallinn, and its price from the state to the state with a transaction, also the company of which Raivo Tamm is a sales representative, is a state-owned company of the order of a quarter of a million euros. The Ministry of Defence, after some pressure, said that no-no-no-no, they could want this kind of midland air control, unlike some earlier claims that no one ever wanted to buy or obtain it or that it was not necessary. Yeah, I'm sure you should. But they have found a weapons system that is four times more expensive: a billion. Four times more expensive! And now I ask, knowing exactly and being frankly upset that some sort of corruption is being thrown into the air: there are two offers that speak of the same, let's say, a lack of capability, not even the same weapon system, but the same power gap. One costs a quarter million, the other costs a billion. And the person who is trying to find a faster and cheaper solution for Estonia is somehow suspicious, but those people who found a billion-dollar solution are not suspicious. In these cases, we do not have the question of why you want four more expensive things, in these cases we do not ask why you want it in ten years' time. Well, because they're so big professionals. My completely honest answer is: I like it when we get things four times cheaper for the Estonian state, I would like to contribute to this. [[A voice from the hall.]] Not of inferior quality, certainly not of inferior quality.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U230	Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U231	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Helme! On Tre Radio's "Let's talk about the matter" a few days ago, you reported to the audience: "In my view, a very, very serious question mark has arisen during the last week in the competence of the Commander of the Defence Forces. " End of quote. You may have referred to the fact that you would be very pleased if Major General Herem left his post. I would remind you that Herem is a professional officer with more than 20 years of experience who has completed an outstanding career as a team leader until the Commander of the Defence Forces. And by the way, he doesn't serve at the Ministry of Finance, he serves at the Ministry of Defense. I've studied your resume, or your knowledge of military matters. It appears that after studying history, you have worked only in civil positions at the University of Tartu. You've never served in the Defence Forces, or probably not in the Defence League. You're on the military side looking at zero knowledge in the field of defense. How can you be so impertinent that being completely incompetent, you judge the Commander of the Defence Forces? I am, of course, referring to the military field. I'm telling you the truth: it looks like you're suffering from a serious star disease from your behavior and actions. I suggest you get rid of it and educate yourself a little in the field of defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U232	Thank you. First of all, I've been in the Defence League since 1992. I basically stopped active in the Defence League when I was elected a member of the Riigikogu. I have been trained there as a mortar, a machine gun, a category B explosive expert, and have earned the rank of sergeant. I've been going to more exercises than the average conscript in the last few decades since I was in the Defence League. But I'm not saying that I'm a huge defense specialist. I'm not saying I'm a huge defense specialist! But I'd say you don't have to be a defense specialist for that. The Defense Research Centre itself published an analysis, I think, about a year and a half ago. The Defence Research Centre published an analysis after carrying out an in-depth study of air security in the Baltic States. The conclusion written in these big red letters was that we have a serious power gap in mid-earth air control. A serious capacity gap! And until that day, when it was necessary to challenge the EKRE, no one objected. And then one day everyone turned 180 degrees and said you were stupid. But that's how much I have jurisdiction. And there doesn't have to be a lot of competence for that, so much common sense for all of us when we see a deal that's four times cheaper or cheaper than a side deal. And one deal we can make in the next few years, and the other one is scheduled in 10 or 15 years. There is no need to do an office career in the Defence Forces to say that this first one is a good deal.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U233	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U234	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister of Finance! In response to our colleague, you have said here today that the meeting in December 2019 with Mr Freeh was a normal job interview. I have a question: did you also conduct a job interview with representatives of the other two companies? And here's the other part of the question. The Prime Minister said several times today in Question Time that there were, in fact, more of these possible law firms. How many were there, and did you meet them?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U235	Thank you. Yeah, that's an understandable question. One of them I met in person at an office, went there. This is the White & Case office that I attended when I was in the United States last October. When you google our fake media, there was a lot of speculation about who I went to. See, I went to see White & Case. With the third company we had in this final bidding call, or Cleary Gottlieb... and what came next, I didn't meet in person. However, I met some other potential candidates, one of whom was Bill Brauder, who you know. I met him in London last October. Basically, I did the same market survey as everyone else. If you look at it, the meeting with Freeh was the latest in time. I told him and I told everyone else that we were shopping around, we wanted to find out who had the greatest competence and the best price. How many of them were there in total, no, this background study was carried out by different companies. And here's the question, isn't there who we read for the one we've been in close contact with? A letter was sent to some with self-esteem and asked if you were interested, if the letter responded, not interested. You could say there was communication, but actually, there was nowhere else to go. I dare say there were a dozen companies that were finally more seriously discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U236	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U237	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I've been doing a little bit of work here, and I've scored 4,000. That difference, a quarter million and a billion, that difference is 4,000 times, not four times. I think it's the first mistake you've been forced to admit, but it was probably just a speech mistake. But my question concerns how many times you have regretted what you said. I quote: "There are some sins that politicians are not forgiven, and one of them is lying. " It seems to me that you have become a hostage to what you said. Isn't that why you can't get out of this lying bike? You might even want to admit a few lies, but since you've said what I've been quoting, it's impossible for you to do that. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U238	Thank you. Yeah, if 200... Yes, when I messed up a billion and a million, 250 million and 1,000 million, or a billion, it was a glitch and thanks for pointing that out. No, I've never regretted it. I'm like Abraham Lincoln, who said he couldn't lie.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U239	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U240	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Minister of Finance! You said you didn't read today's newspapers, but today's Estonian Express has another impression, and he accuses you of involving Ragnar Meitern in the counseling process as part of the Louis Freeh case. Is Ragnar Meitern really like a man out of nowhere who came here with you in this process, as the Estonian Ekspress claims, or has he worked with another member of the government before, during a previous government, or even with a head of government?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U241	Thank you. Yeah, maybe we should explain that. Ragnar Meitern has been one of the people who helped us put together meetings with various law firms and do this market research. He is a person who has lived away from Estonia for several decades, works as a financial consultant in London in principle, as a legal consultant. He has a very, very wide network of contacts in Estonia and elsewhere in the world and a large number of contacts in this field. Yeah, he's not political at all. He has previously helped Taavi Rõivas, for example, to organise meetings with various entrepreneurs. And he came to offer his own help after I had turned to various Estonian lawyers and the word went on the move. I guess they talked to each other. We were looking for people who could help. And I want to stress that he did this consultative work or this relief work for the Estonian state from beginning to end free of charge. He did not ask the Estonian state for money and has not received any money. I don't think he's some dark guy or some mysterious guy. He is a well-known person and should also be known to members of the opposition.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U242	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U243	Good President! Good minister! Just in line with the line: a simple calculation says that in five years, about 15 prosecutors' fees could be paid if the three million that were put into the contract were paid out here as a salary. This would certainly make the work of our prosecutor's office more efficient and, sometimes, allow them to cooperate more effectively with their colleagues in the United States. But my question in itself is very simple and requires such a yes or no answer. Have you or your party directly or indirectly benefited from an agreement with the FSS?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U244	Well, that's a simple question. No, we haven't gotten any benefits. I assume you mean some kind of financial gain. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I think the country of Estonia will benefit. When we talk about the money we have given, I would remind you that because of the socialist alcohol policy, the Estonian state lost hundreds of millions. Hundreds of millions! Heaven, help! And when we talk about how much washed money went through Estonia, whether criminally or simply in violation of regulations, it was hundreds of billions. And we're talking about what we could get for compensation. I would point out that this EUR 3 million is not a certain amount that we are proposing. That 3 million is the contract fee ceiling. Within the ceiling of this contract fee, they will bill the work they have done periodically, and if we say at one point that do not do the work again, there will be no bills. But it can't go more than 3 million euros. By this day, we've got, I think, about 200,000 bills. Now, what do we get for this? We are very likely to get my estimate for this, of course the projections may always be wrong, we are very likely to receive hundreds of millions of divided fine money from the United States. So it's money that's all reasonably invested, and those hundreds of millions, but maybe more than hundreds of millions of dollars we can hire prosecutors, judges, and pensions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U245	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U246	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Our political culture has been compared with Harry Eckstein's "Theory of Stabilise Democracy." More specifically, he looked at the factors that led to democracy's persistence and instability and their background. It is said that our political culture is just as democratic and polite as there are behavioural patterns in our society, such as between family members or at work in boss-subordinate relationships or in customer-customer relations, etc. But the situation becomes dangerous if there is no democracy in such relationships, i.e. family members do not feel equal, the boss is car-cratic, etc. Do you understand? If the differences in relations between them are very great, I am thinking, above all, of the culture that currently exists in Parliament, such as the attitude of members of the government towards members of the Riigikogu, the growing difficulties of the opposition and the coalition in finding a common part, then there is a constant threat to democracy. To put it mildly, it seems to be a real threat to the possible future debate in this Parliament and in the public, given your humorous and derisive rhetoric. My question: what do you say to those who are worried about it besides me? And if there is, I'll ask you for no ignorance and no joke.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U247	I'd say you can't clap with one hand. There's no way to muddy political culture if we only had one scumbag. That's not possible. Let me give you a simple example. I have to say, of course, that the Reform Party Group should be used to this: they also have one person who thinks everyone but him is stupid. What are you complaining about? You should be used to it! But let me give you a simple example. I want everyone to hear it. Last week I went to the Committee on Monetary Affairs to present the autumn forecast and the budget review. I went to Jürgen Ligi and asked if I could sit here, and he said to me, "Fuck you. " Now that's the culture you're introducing. It was instead of a greeting. It was instead of a greeting! I didn't say anything back. I sat on another chair. But, well, it's this culture. Of course, that worries me.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U248	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U249	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! How do you interpret this wording when the Estonian security authority transmits to you a document stating that the company or institution A is deeply infiltrated by the dubious interests of Russia? Do you think that there should also be a message to not have anything to do with it, or do you understand this quote simply what it means?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U250	Thank you. Very sincerely: I well understood what was wanted. I knew exactly what they wanted! And if we get these papers in front of us and it's written behind them that we haven't actually checked and it's done on the paper, but it's all very worrying, I'll check it out. That's what I'm gonna do. I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U251	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U252	Thank you. First of all, I have seen a great many different parliamentary discussions in the last 20 years or 21 years. I really have not seen it before. And be a man and apologize to George at least and Parliament and the public would also be appropriate. But my question is about a sequence. I'm asking who or what connects them and why. The rejection of Ukrainian citizens suffering from Kremlin aggression, the hiring of Kremlin-related advisors, the proposal to reduce national defence costs and the repeated and consistent public disparage of Estonia's defence capabilities, instead of all other costs. Good Martin Helme, who or what connects this sequence, and why?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U253	Thank you. Well, if you're trying to put up a story about me insulting Jüri Jaanson's hearing disability, then you're trying to put up another lie. No offense! I'm quite frankly saying that I don't think he's the sharpest pen, he didn't understand what we were talking about. But it has nothing to do with hearing. It relates to your group, I would say that, to the political level, how things are understood. But if you're trying to find culturelessness and smugness in this hall, I suggest you go back. On the Riigikogu website and YouTube, there is a page of the Riigikogu where there are all kinds of sessions from the old days. Look at all the briefings and enquiries you were prime minister! My heart's about to warm.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U254	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U255	Dear Minister, I will repeat my previous question, and I hope now to get the right answer. How was the text of the money laundering legal aid agreement and the invitation to tender prepared? Who specifically prepared this document? And as you have said in the past: your advisers said no, now you said that a basic document came from the Ministry of Justice, but the Minister of Justice has also said that neither he nor the Ministry of Justice has anything to do with this document, and he knows nothing about it. My question is: are you questioning Raivo Aeg's claims?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U256	Now I'm gonna have to... I don't know how to do it so everyone doesn't think I'm patronizing, but you do realize that one procurement is being prepared by officials. The Minister shall not write the text of the contract and shall not make the preparatory documents for the procurement. No, I'm not! It's not Raivo Time, it's not me. This was the work of the Legal Service and Public Procurement Department of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance. On what day they were shaking paper to each other, what they did in that wording, I didn't follow it. I needed to go out in the tender, I said, make sure that there was rope on it, so that those words were done right on the rope, and they did it. What Raivo Time remembers or doesn't remember -- well, frankly, he signs all kinds of awards, so he doesn't remember.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U257	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U258	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Minister! You have just said that you are not in the procurement business, but this Freeh contract, too, to prepare this procurement is the most meaningful activity in order to organise the procurement. You must have been wrong or your tongue slipped, as you have said many times here. But my question relates to the fact that today in Question Time we learned that Jüri Ratas would have been happy to meet farmers and let Ukrainian workers in as seasonal workers, but could not reach an agreement. It was a reference to you being the greatest architect in this regard. Strawberry growers left strawberries in the field for millions of euros. They have applied for 4,7 million. Could they count on the same simple compensation for damage, just as the 3 million-dollar contract was easily received by the same law firm?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U259	Thank you. I recently spoke to the Minister for Rural Affairs on this subject, who said that he had looked at these injury analyses and he did not see any reason to compensate for the damage. There are a lot of different numbers written together, but it can't actually be proved. What I'm gonna say is, the budget is tight.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U260	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U261	Mr. Minister! I very much hope that this patronizing style here in the Riigikogu will not become dominant. I have to tell you one thing. For calling us darlings here, this was, of course, a very exciting moment for me. But my question to the whole long process is: is there any aggregate material, such a documented set, where the process of preparing and conducting the competition has been summed up? Is there such material?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U262	Thank you. I can't answer that. I can answer that everything that's been asked has been given. True, some, a lot of documents have been put on "Intra-Institutional use." And it is possible that there are a lot of documents somewhere, but these documents have been forwarded to the Riigikogu a very large pile of documents, which has not gone through the official register of documents that has not been asked for separately. I don't know exactly how to answer it, but basically everything that's been asked has been received. Has anyone put them somewhere, I don't know, in a package I don't know about... I certainly didn't. How these papers have been processed in the Riigikogu, I cannot answer that. But there's a lot of these papers. And, of course, it has to be said that we have our own electronic document register and workflow from which it is possible to click everything out, who sent the letter to someone, who signed something at the time. I think it's all available.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U263	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U264	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You said in answer to one of the previous questioners that cooperation has begun, cooperation is good. I therefore ask that once this cooperation has started, how much funds has already been transferred by the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U265	Thank you. I don't know if it's been transferred. I know they've sent out bills. I have to remember now whether this amount was less than 200,000 euros in dollars or euros, that's where the difference comes in, right? But somewhere in this order of magnitude, they've been billing us.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U266	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U267	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It's pretty embarrassing, to be honest. It's the first time I've ever seen a minister set an example in this way. I fully understand that you are accusing and insulting the opposition ambassadors, but it does not make sense to me that you are also messing with your coalition partner, Fatherland. What have you promised the Fatherland that they will be on your side today?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U268	Thank you. I realize it's embarrassing, it's supposed to be. It's supposed to be. All this mistrust, all these accusations are embarrassing. It's supposed to be embarrassing. No, I'm not messing with the Fatherland. I think they tried to lure me out before, don't they, about the Ministers of the Interior of the Fatherland? So what do I say, no, they don't have that period? Yes, it is. And so is the pink dress incident, and that's an embarrassing incident. But I dare tell you that in the coalition, we have a very good relationship.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U269	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U270	Thank you very much. Good minister! There have been a lot of empty questions in this Chamber today. They are very much driven by a political point, and many questions certainly do not interest the wider audience. But there are also questions that are of interest. For example, you can be absolutely sure that the people are waiting and wanting to know about money laundering, an insane investigation into the consequences of money laundering, which took place in 2007 to 2015. What's your perspective, vision, is it possible for those who pull this money laundering to become public at some point? When? How far are we with these things?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U271	Yeah, that's actually a very important question, and I think that's the point. What can we summarise about the money laundering situation in Estonia in recent years? We can sum up by saying that Estonian supervisory authorities and research institutions were not up to their duties when money laundering was at the top. We can say that at some point the focus was better, something was being done. And it's inevitable, in justice, it's typical that it's retrospectal, that the investigation takes place afterwards. But what else we can say is that, in parallel with Estonia or regardless of what is being done in Estonia, whether or not we are investigating whether or not our investigation is taking us somewhere or not, there are very many countries where our investigations are carried out in Sweden, Denmark, Germany, the United Kingdom, the United States. There's your investigations. I must tell you honestly that as far as I know, investigations from some of these countries have gone further or deeper than in Estonia. Is the reason why they've put more resources into it, taken more interest in it, studied more aggressively? I can't answer that. But I would like it not to happen so that we from another country, from the proceedings of another country, finally find out who did what and who was responsible, and the Estonian authorities do not reach that point. Now, I think that would be a real blow to our reputation and damage to the credibility of our country, including international credibility. But I am now seeing other countries move faster, deeper and further.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U272	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U273	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You've been saying here that it's like we're afraid of an investigation. I'm not scared! And then there was this talk about this big law firm with its four or five assistants doing interviews with whistleblowers and witnesses, institutions and individuals, just like some kind of threat. You see, I've also been exposed to money laundering issues while working for the Minister's Office, maybe directly exposed to money laundering processing materials when I was working for the Tax and Customs Board. If I shouldn't have been invited, for some reason, to go to this study or interview, or what form would you call it? Is it within the framework of a contract between a law firm and a state or in the framework of another contract or administrative procedure or in the framework of criminal proceedings, or is it simply a memoir exchange or is it a conversation? What form would it take?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U274	Thank you. I understand you want to go somewhere to spill your heart. We can make it happen. What does this form look like? I'm not in it, I'm not in it. But everything you can tell me if you want.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U275	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U276	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! When Andres Sutt went on the remote today, I thought he was gonna give a technical speech about money laundering, the investigation conducted by special committees. In fact, Andres gave a very, very good value-based speech. I agree with that. To be honest, I think it is sufficient reason to distrust the Minister if he does not come before the Commission in the framework of parliamentary supervision to answer questions. Then you came to the remote and said something about money laundering 10 years ago. Money laundering is a crime, criminal investigation is taking place. If we do not know the legal space of the United States and we need a representative, we need to find that representative. But the focus of the committee of inquiry is on the process of getting a representative. It must be transparent, the materials must be available and the Minister and his advisers must answer the questions. My question is why you have not come illegally and also forbade your advisors to come to the special committee of the Riigikogu. Is it in line with the principles of a democratic state when parliamentary supervision cannot be carried out?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U277	Good Riina! I must reject the claim that I have not come before the committees and, more categorically, that this has somehow been a breach of the law. I have not failed to come to the committees. The ones that Andres Sutt read here, the meetings of the Commission to which invitations have been sent, some of them were already last year. They're different, aren't they? But those that have been sent over the last few months have been invitations to events that are not taking place. If the Commission does not meet, if the Commission does not have a quorum, if the Commission does not enter the agenda, if the Commission does not draw up a record of its sitting, it is not a meeting of the Commission. Everyone understands that. Otherwise, it could be said that 14 Commission sittings are currently taking place here: all the members of the Riigikogu are present, people from each committee are present, the meetings of the Commission are ongoing. It's not really like that! The Commission has a agenda which is to be sent out, this agenda must be approved, the Commission must have a quorum, after which a protocol must be drawn up. There's nothing like that! However, it is an endless lie about how I did not go to the Commission. I have not missed the Commission meeting because there has not been a committee meeting that I could have gone to or should have gone to. It's so annoying to hear this lie, it's horrible. And put more epithetes in there that it's somehow illegal or breaking the law we're gonna stop! Ultimately, I go to a committee meeting almost every week: I go to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, last week I went to the Committee on National Defence, I have been to the Committee on Economic Affairs, I always go to the Committee on European Union Affairs. We all know how this procedure works. The Secretariat of the Commission will contact the Assistant Minister of Finance or the Secretariat and say that on such a day and on such a day we have a request that [the Minister] come, if not then we propose another day, we will find the time. It usually fits in a few weeks, but often these times are placed on a calendar several months ahead. But if I get a message on Friday night that you'll be there Monday morning, then that's, for the point one, we're talking about some kind of political culture or respect, totally disrespectful. Secondly, it is known in advance to create a situation where it could be said that he did not come. And thirdly, I also have to take care of that here, which we had a little debate on Monday in the Special Committee. First of all, I was invited by the Commission, in principle, for the next working day. I told you I couldn't, but I can come a week later. Then we don't want you! Okay. This was a communication with the secretariat of the Special Budget Committee. After I told you all about it in this briefing, the day went by, Friday, if I remember correctly, but I think it was Friday's announcement that I could come on Monday. I said, basically, I still have the time off. They said the subject is this and this. I can no longer remember from my head what the subject was, it was somehow related to the National Audit Office or the annual report. I said I don't care, all right. After I turned it down, it was announced that we were changing the agenda, that there was another agenda, are you still coming? I'm still coming because I'm free on my calendar. What does this process describe to us? This process tells us how, point one, we are playing about calling a stupid committee, so that we can continue to spin a lie to the public at all times, as if I did not go to committees. And point two, in my opinion, it also shows the inability to manage its committee's work normally.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U278	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U279	Thank you. You're trying to make yourself look like a huge money-laundering fighter. But at the same time, we read in the press that your advisor, Kersti Kracht, is attending and asking banks to open accounts for Dmütro Fertash, who is the Ukrainian oligarch. I quote this bank worker: "He [Kersti Kracht] tried to describe the legal bodies, jurisdictions and banks that would pay the money. I said send me the exact description. The next day he said that he solved the problem through one Latvian bank and that you are all cowards in Estonia. " How do you appreciate the conduct of your own advisor dealing with suspicions or even charges of money laundering just because I don't know the details of opening accounts for the Ukrainian oligarch? How does it go with the fact that you're fighting money laundering?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U280	Thank you. It's really good. I'm not familiar with the details of this story, but as far as I can remember, the same Firtash was listed for the American domestic political struggle, i.e. the construction of the Russian-cooperative false story against Trump. I may be wrong, but I think he was taken off that list at some point. It's basically from the same opera, if I understand it correctly, basically from the same opera as the story of how they tried to pin it on Trump or put him in the withdrawal process for twisting the hands of the Ukrainian authorities. But I don't think this case has any effect on me or on my fight against money laundering.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U281	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U282	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Mr. Minister! In fact, we all understand, of course, that the decisions taken by the government were actually not the right practice to formalise the agreements that you had concluded earlier. But my question is this: have you also spoken to the Prime Minister today and has the Prime Minister asked you about the facts that emerged in today's Estonian Express? And if you have not spoken to the Prime Minister on this subject, have you even spoken to the Prime Minister today, and if you did not talk about it, what did you talk about?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U283	Thank you. Yeah, well, what you understand or don't understand comes out pretty well in this discussion. My contact with the Prime Minister today lasted from 8:00 in the morning at the budget negotiating table until about 11:00, after which he went on his own business and I went on my own business. And on the subject of today's Estonian Express article, I think I have already answered very exhaustively. I don't know if they understand. But I haven't talked to the Prime Minister about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U284	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U285	Good President! Good minister! You are a wise man, and you have certainly considered during these months whether everything has gone in the best way in the preparation and execution of this procurement and in the conclusion and implementation of the contract. If you could do another similar test in life, what would you do differently? Anyone with critical thinking, after all, especially when criticized, would think twice. And how much will Mr. Meitern get? This is another small supplementary question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U286	Thank you. I do not know the answer to this supplementary question. This is an agreement between him and his employer. I thank some people for thinking I'm smart, but in general, everyone else thinks I don't fit into any job, because I'm so stupid. But in this regard, the old Greeks have a beautiful saying: fate is foreordained, chance is blind. It's gonna be like it's gonna be. It's going the way it's supposed to be. You go left, you get out in one place, you go right, you end up in the same place. What do I mean by that? At the moment when, as a minister, I began to deal with money laundering issues and, contrary to the very urgent recommendations from both the political community and the authorities, I said that we are dealing with things of the past, it was clear that we would get to the point where we are today. At that point, it was clear. Whether I would have chosen one, another or a third company wouldn't make any difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U287	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U288	Thank you. Good minister! Our age difference is nine years. My children's room about Jüri Jaanson would have been the first to mean that I didn't say that, but since you said the minimum you owe Jüri Jaanson is an excuse. I don't think it's gonna be hard for you to make this right here in the Riigikogu speech chair. But let's do one more thing. You say that you have always come or have not missed an invitation when you have been invited to a special committee. That's not true. For the first time, we invited you to give an overview of Aidu wind farm on 9 December. The invitation went out on 5 December with an explanation that if the proposed time does not match, please state for your part [new time]. You said you weren't coming. For the second time, with an invitation sent on 11 December, the Special Committee against Corruption invited you to a meeting on 16 December, which started at 1.30 p.m. On the same day, 16 December at 10:52 p.m., your secretary e-mailed me that you weren't coming. Why are you lying?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U289	I don't remember the subject of Aid, I swear, I admit I don't. But with the Katri Raigi Commission, I think it was that this issue was not finally put on the agenda. I can, of course, get lost again, these are more than a year ago. But I didn't think it was on the agenda, so I didn't have to go. As far as the apology is concerned, I have explained once before that it has been tried with malice to scroll it all over again. I didn't joke or insult Jaanson's hearing. It's a disability, I know. I was with him in the previous composition, I know. But I think it's insulting to people with disabilities when we give them a discount on some other subject because they have a disability. A member of the Riigikogu must understand the political dispute, whether or not he or she has a disability. And I can pick if he doesn't understand the subject, whether he has a disability or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U290	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U291	Thank you. No, Martin, you can't fuck with me! As a minister, you don't mind the Members of Parliament, you don't appreciate who the sharp pencil is, because you're here to report as a minister, not the other way around. And when the Riigikogu commission tells Minister Martin Helme that there will be a hearing at this time of day on that date, Minister Martin Helme will go there because Article 22 of the Home and Working Procedures Act provides so. Don't ask Martin Helme what's on the agenda, or if there's something on the agenda that doesn't suit him, he won't say I don't have time for it. It is not that easy, because Estonia is a parliamentary state. If this cannot be understood, then it is time to leave the ministerial seat. I come back to my last question, which you simply missed. Who or what unites this sequence: the rejection of Ukrainian citizens suffering from Kremlin aggression, the hiring of Kremlin advisors, the reduction of defence costs alone, the repeated and consistent public disapproval of Estonia's defence capacity? Who or what connects them, and why?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U292	Thank you. Yes, I agree in principle, of course the ministers must take Parliament into account. But I would also point out that Parliament is a collective body. There is a political balance in this House. One or another opposition ambassador or one or another opposition group is not yet a whole Parliament. In fact, it's even funny that you have to draw attention to it. But I reject the claim that I have wanted to make cuts in national defence. On the contrary, our proposal was to channel more money into national defence, and it is embarrassing that this money is not being accepted. Thank you. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U293	The manager takes a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U294	All right, ladies and gentlemen. Break's over, let's keep discussing mistrust. Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U295	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. I admit it's hard to keep asking after all the discussions and insults that have come out of the chair, but still. I actually think you're a capable politician, but somehow you've decided to amplify this capacity with an insulting and today's language. Yeah, really, there's no need to justify others doing that. I agree you didn't do well. In your speech to the Riigikogu today, you emphasised that you are happy to shape the new norms, and I understand that these are standards of conduct and that you are doing exactly the kind of Estonia you want to do. My question: how is this position balanced with the ministerial oath that you signed here before the Riigikogu. The oath of office is as follows: "In taking up the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. "Yes, yes, there is also "The well-being and future of the Estonian people," where besides you there are others, me and them too.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U296	Thank you. I think I have fulfilled this oath very well. And I can say, without any hesitation, that I have never had to be embarrassed or ashamed of anything or compromise with my conscience. My conscience is as pure as it can be. But you know, you've seen me on this remote control before, we've been discussing complex drafts here, just as much as you do noting issues, pension columns, whatever you want, you know very well that if I wanted to, I could have a completely different tone. But I don't want to, I just don't want to, because I find it insulting and gratifying what special committees or some of their most active members have been dealing with in the last month and a half. This whole avalanche of accusations, lies, slander and scream that's been so disgusting lately, I'm gonna make it disgusting for you, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U297	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U298	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Try to answer my question by not making it disgusting. We know that there are countries where people cannot enter Estonia, including the United States. By way of derogation, with the permission of the Police and Border Guard Board and in the case of work visits, it is possible to apply for the relevant permit and to come to Estonia from there. However, in the case of exceptions, certain rules apply, such as having to be quarantined for two weeks or having to be tested at a port or airport, a test, and then moving on when the response is received. It is understandable that this test may have been carried out exceptionally for the arrivals, but there was certainly no reply to it before arriving in the Riigikogu. Today, my Türi pensioners and your EKRE guests sat in briefing, all wearing masks. We have this time in the house, when the guests come into the house, they have masks on. Doesn't it seem to you that this most elementary, the smallest thing, if the test result isn't yet[, is to wear a mask]? When we tell everyone that it's recommended to wear a mask, couldn't it have been in the way of the arrivals?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U299	Thank you. There's a lot of exceptions, yes, there are exceptions. In short, there are all kinds of exceptions. I would say, frankly, that we have come so far with exceptions that there are almost no rules anymore, and that is, in my opinion, a problem. But this delegation also came under the exception. We made an application, and this application was completely processed in the normal or official manner, and it was precisely with this exception that this delegation was not quarantined. As far as the masks are concerned, period one, I didn't see at that meeting, if I remember correctly now, no one else's mask. But more importantly, the masking duty should have been explained by the chairman of the meeting or by the Riigikogu itself. People come from the other side of the ocean and they don't know which institution or country has the rules for masks. And I want to stress that there is no rule in Estonia that the mask is compulsory. At least I didn't know it was. I have absolutely no doubt that if they had put masks on the table, they would have put on all the masks. In that sense, I share the concern. I fully share the concern that the coronation is completely out of hand in Estonia, and I still expect a clear answer as to whether the masking obligation is correct or not. We're told how hospitals and old people's homes can use them, but nowhere else they can help. And it doesn't make any sense to me. But if the masks were put on the table and they said there was such an obligation, I don't think anyone would have had a question. In America, they're mandatory in some states. I'd rather ask you what went wrong here, then the answer is no one offered a mask.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U300	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U301	Thank you, Mr President, for giving the floor. Dear Martin Helme, You have taken it to your political heart to deal with the fight against money laundering and to investigate how it has been dealt with, and this is certainly welcome. At the same time, you have relied only on your own sense of gut, which is confirmed by the fact that there is no analysis, no memo or any other document in the Ministry of Finance, as it has become clear, which actually analyses the legal possibility of obtaining damages from the Americans. It seems like you wanted to hire this law firm just because it seemed like the former director of the FBI was a nice political slob to wav. Please push it over! What is our real chance? Or what are your analyses or data that say we have the opportunity to actually receive some kind of damages?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U302	Thank you. First of all, I have a request that when people say my name, they say it correctly: it is Helme (in the third hand), not Helme (in the second. Two, I got a lot of heart stuff, I got a whole bunch of heart stuff. I like PPPs and four-line highways, I like direct democracy, I like to lower excise duty and other taxes, I have a whole bunch of heart things. Okay, to the point. This impression has, of course, been systematically built here, that somehow there is something suspicious there, and if not suspicious, then yes, it is just a political show. I assure you that there is nothing suspicious about it, and I assure you that it is not a political show, but it is basically a search for and take of help to clean up the Estonian financial sector. And, among other things, undoubtedly, in my opinion, this will also help to fill the Estonian state budget in the future. Now, here's what I'm gonna say about the tests. Point one. One analysis was carried out by the Ministry of Justice during the previous government. It may be a slightly higher level of abstraction, but this analysis has been done. The second analysis is inside the contract we signed with the same company. They must provide us with a summary or an overview of which options we can use in the first place and which options are as practical and profitable as possible. This analysis is an additional analysis or an already detailed analysis resulting from the specific agreement that we have concluded. And we can also use this analysis for the public, certainly it is used by the public, but it is also necessary for the same company itself to make it clear exactly where to ask, who to ask and who to offer. That too is on the work plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U303	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U304	Thank you. Good minister! When you answered my previous question, you were tired of describing how you go to committees every week and that the meetings of the special committees, where you allegedly did not come, did not really take place. The heads of the special committees read in the media on Friday that the quorum won't come in on Monday, and you won't show up. This is, in my opinion, not the usual practice; this should not be the case. I can't tell you whether you gave Peeter Ernits a car maintenance period by Monday that he couldn't come to the hearing, or what the substantive concern was there, but the Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu has found that the right of the committee provided for in § 22 of the Home and Working Rules Act is the right of any committee, not just the committee of inquiry, to require a member of the Government of the Republic and an official of a government institution to attend a meeting. In Question Time, on the other hand, you described that when the councillors asked you whether to respond to the invitation of the heads of the special committees and to come to the hearing, you said that you did not have to go to this flea circus. Why have you illegally prevented committees from exercising parliamentary supervision? Do you think this is consistent with the principles of a democratic state and the rule of law?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U305	Thank you. I don't know how bored I was to describe it, I'm happy to go to committees. I don't have a problem with that. It is also not the usual practice for a special committee meeting to be held every week during the summer intersessions. This certainly is not a normal practice and, consequently, it makes perfect sense that the ambassadors are disbanded, so-called communicating with voters, it is perfectly normal. So getting in the summer between sessions, with the quorum requirement being higher, the committee working together is, of course, [complicated]. Just as it is natural that when the invitation of the Commission comes and I am out of town, I will at least call my party mates and ask if they have any plans to participate. If I find out that there are already so many non-participants that there is no quorum, then it is clear. What's so complicated? Perhaps this work should have been done by the head of the Commission before he started calling the Commission together to see if people could even come. He must have taken a piece off. Consequently, the aim was not to convene the Commission but to set up a media show. As regards § 22 of the Riigikogu Labour and Rules of Procedure Act, it is always quoted to me, but the wrong paragraph is quoted. In the Riigikogu there are standing committees and special committees, special committees have sub-categories: problem committees and committees of inquiry. The Special Committee on State Budget Control and the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption are not committees of inquiry; committees of inquiry have broader powers, including the right to invite people to testify. Anybody. But I would remind you that Andrus Ansip once didn't go, either, if he was invited, if I remember correctly, then maybe the Tallinn Port Commission. He didn't go, he never found the time, and so on. Of course, I don't fit him. And the section you're referring to is about ministers and civil servants, but my advisors are not going down there, the political councillors are not going under that section.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U306	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U307	Good manager! Good minister! As a member of this special committee, I have experienced long before this summer session that, unfortunately, it has been a flea circus for a man. I am thinking of the current composition of the Special Committee on State Budget Control. But here's my question. I have looked at Jürgen Ligi, the dear leader of our Commission, but I have not understood why he is so wildly raping and struggling and seeing things in documents that are not there. After all, he is a good family and educated colleague here, and he is our longest-serving colleague. I haven't figured out why Jürgen's so wildly raping about this story.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U308	Thank you. Yes, I have to be honest with you, it has also been the most unusual practice of this committee's organisation to know a long time before August, when I was suddenly awfully wanted to be invited there every once in a while. But yes, I think it's a question of leadership quality. We could see this quality of governance in the fight against money laundering during [Jürgen Ligi] being a minister, and now we see it as [in his work] as the head of the Commission. There may, of course, be different estimates, and I think we have a different assessment here, but it seems to me that there is a problem with the quality of management. As far as rape is concerned, yes, I've been asked if he's afraid of getting caught. But I have to be honest with you, I rather think it's about ego. I rather think it's about the ego. Still the best finance minister in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U309	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U310	Thank you very much. As I say, you can do as much as it takes, you don't discourage me with it, I still want answers to my questions. You were talking about the quality of leadership, and I would like to talk about the quality of government leadership. Let me get this straight. The circumstances are as follows? In the morning, a nationwide newspaper tells the story that Finance Minister Helme has planted a contract with a law firm with the state. What kind of contract? A three-mile contract. Head of Government Jüri Ratas is with you from morning until lunch at a meeting in one room, and even one question the son does not ask about how it is, is the Minister of Finance really cruelly breaking the law or, at least, the meaning of this law? I am very sorry, but do you think that such a head of government is at the level of his duties, who does not address his minister, who has been publicly charged with such serious accusations, and no question about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U311	Thank you. That's right, and it's very simple. I understand it's hard to believe, but our government doesn't work according to newspaper headlines. Our government doesn't work according to newspaper headlines! We have things in order of priority. We dealt with more important matters than commenting or discussing false stories. And thirdly, I would point out that this thing is not just a false story, it's the same drunkard coming from the same source that's so yummy that they can write anything they want, no write, but nobody takes it seriously. At least none of us take it seriously because we know it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U312	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U313	Thank you, good manager. Minister Helme! We have been talking here today about the importance of combating money laundering. I believe it has been in the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Interior, regardless of the party that has been leading this ministry with critical attention, in fact, for a long time. You have also tried to convince us that you are taking this issue very seriously. Unfortunately, the information referred to in an earlier question does not match that statement. This information concerns how your advisor, Kersti Kracht, has intervened quite recently in the decision-making process of the banks and, while demanding the opening of accounts closed by the Ukrainian oligarch banks suspected of money laundering using telephone law. My question is about this particular case. Did your advisor act using phone law with the government's knowledge, or did he have your authority, and he did it with your knowledge?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U314	Thank you. He didn't act on the government or on me. I, of course, congratulate the extremely smooth cooperation that takes place between the Express Media and the Reform Party, that you support each other in such a way and that you organise such information operations before Question Time and mistrust. It makes me jealous. But no, it's not government policy, it's not my policy. As far as I was concerned after [Kersti Kracht] asked why he was doing this, the answer was that there was a large company in Ida-Viru County where there was, I don't remember several dozens or several hundred employees whose salaries were frozen before the pay day. He ran for election in Ida-Virumaa and it was basically pretty much after the election. People turned to him as their candidate, the person who had reached the Ministry of Finance to become an advisor, that what we are doing, we are starving. That's why he did it in the first place. I don't know what this phone right is supposed to be or what the end result is. But if we're talking about why he did it in the first place, that's why.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U315	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U316	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Finance! I have drawn all my information on this subject from a single source. That's what correspondence is registered with the Ministry of Finance, which I've been familiar with. And, frankly, after getting to know it, I have the question that, by looking at you and knowing you for a long time, as a relatively balanced and peaceful person who is very good at controlling his emotions, I do not know why he is going to bleed out like this, whether he is afraid of getting caught. These doubts have deepened, and your performance today will, for some reason, give little of such certainty. But my question concerns Mr Meitern's activities. How do you feel about the conflict of interest we've been talking about here, whether Ragnar Meitern was not in a situation of conflict of interest when he worked as a representative of the subscriber and then started working there? That's the first question. And the second question is, did you know when you asked Meitern to contact Freeh that he would be working on this team?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U317	Thank you. No, I didn't ask for it, and there was no such plan. I don't know if it would have been... I mean, it bothers me that people here are trying to make this situation look like a veil, to show it as some cynical or sneaky game, how a man put himself on some kind of order. He worked for the Estonian state for free, offered free advice and brought us together with various companies, very many companies, various companies. I told him right away that we didn't have a budget to do any kind of counseling. He said fine, it's okay. And that doesn't bother me. I don't see any problem here because it wasn't what you were trying to show me. I know you're all trying to make it look like we've been playing one card all along. It wasn't like that. He offered us five or six companies. I don't see any problem here. But I'd say, of course, what am I out here [of blood] out of blood, are you kidding me? I think I'm in very good shape. But what always irritates me is screaming injustice. What is being done in criticising this Treaty and creating the impression that is being made here is, in my opinion, terribly unfair. We're gonna leave my humble person by the side, but against Louis Freeh, it's just so unfair that it pisses me off.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U318	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U319	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! If we have confirmed anything today, it will be that you enjoy bragging and arrogance and that, in your opinion, with guilt and shame, you have no problem at all. You don't want to admit your failures, let alone lie. Toomas Kivimägi has already referred to your own words that a politician does not have a long party when it comes to lying. But you've been saying here many times today that no, you haven't lied about anything. Do you stick deeply and firmly to your statements that you have never lied to the media in your ministry, not to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U320	Yeah, I'm staying with me. I will also stick to why our mistrust today is in the tone of what the opposition has been doing in the last few months, the level of mud in Estonian politics is such that it cannot be left in this way. Look in the mirror, you can't leave it like this! And of course I'm not lying.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U321	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U322	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Minister! You have repeatedly claimed today that the press produces false news on a regular basis. You have listed journalists who, to put it mildly, are not up to their duties, in your opinion. You also select journalism publications at a government press conference with whom you communicate with, who you don't. I ask you whether the free press is, in your opinion, an important part of democratic social organisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U323	Thank you. Very important, very important! I therefore pay particular attention to the fact that false journalism is exposed, to the fact that political trolls cannot go around and present themselves as journalists. Free press is crucial.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U324	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U325	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Members of the Reform Party quoted the Minister's oath and questioned your honour and conduct. My question, however, is this: is it in your opinion that it is in the interests of the Estonian state to obstruct the investigation that started to clarify money laundering that has seriously damaged Estonia's reputation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U326	Thank you. Of course not. And, of course, the members of the Riigikogu have also taken an oath of office. One might ask how their conduct is consistent with their vows. How is the systematic distribution of slander and falsehood in the public domain consistent with these oaths of office? How is it that the government's work is hindered by all the techniques that have been invented in the world, in accordance with the oaths of office, to serve the people and to maintain constitutional order? We all understand what's going on here today. There's another desperate attempt to just take down the government. I understand the opposition's job is to offer an alternative to the government, but we've been out of this zone a long time. We've been out of this zone a long time. So I think a lot of people should reread the oath here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U327	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U328	Thank you. You said, in answer to my first question, that this is not how you planned Meitern to go to work for Freeh. Who are "we" in this situation who didn't plan it? And there is a further question, however, about how Mr Meitern works in this situation in the event of a conflict of interest. For example, the municipality will prepare the consultant and pay him nothing, the consultant will make a very good purchase and it will be won by X.Then it will be found that the consultant works for the company X. Criminal proceedings will be opened and, most likely, some of the parish officials have made this scheme, and certain stages of criminal proceedings will have to be carried out. How is this situation that we are talking about here, which is different from the hypothetical situation that I described for you and Mr Meitern?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U329	Well, if I use the word "we," I'll probably refer to the team I'm dealing with. This team can change according to the subject, [for one topic] is one group of advisors-officials and for another subject another group of advisors-officials. So, yeah, I'm not talking about myself in the Imperial Third Form. And I assure you, yes, I never had a story about who he could or couldn't work for, or how he communicates. I didn't plan this, and I didn't discuss it with him.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U330	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U331	Thank you. Good Minister of Finance Martin! We all know that hindsight is an exact science. My question is how you yourself will now assess this process of preparing a legal aid agreement afterwards. What would you have done differently?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U332	Probably nothing, because I'm happy with the result. And I will evaluate the result partly on the basis of how the opposition has behaved. The louder the screaming, the closer we are to the truth in our search.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U333	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U334	Thank you. You know, I've been listening to this debate here for several hours now, and I've been thinking about what the people of Estonia might be thinking about looking at this broadcast right now. I understand you speak to your voters, to your voters certainly such an insulting and arrogant style fits. But there are also a lot of other people in Estonia who expect Parliament to set an example, expect a high-quality political debate and that speeches in this Chamber should not be offensive to each other, but focused on content rather than insulting each other. I have to admit, I don't have anything else to ask you. I have long understood, on the basis of today's debate, that a person of such values should not be in the government of the Republic of Estonia. But if you're there, you'll have a wind of sails and songs in your heart!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U335	Thank you. I'd like to make a little bit of a clarification, though. I'm still speaking to your voter, too. I also remind your constituents that during your jurisdiction, there was mass money laundering. I would also remind your constituents of R-Hooldus and Autorollo and cold-scars and whatnot. Right here on the remote. I think it's also necessary to do this from time to time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U336	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U337	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It is known that the causal link is, in reality, the coincidence of two facts, regardless of the person's consciousness, which is the cause of one thing, is the consequence of another. At the moment, the distrust of the entire opposition has focused only, say, on the consequence, i.e. how to eliminate the damage caused to the Estonian state, and the opposition has completely neglected the cause. As Hanno said here, people are really watching us, and a television watcher sent me a question. Please tell the rural person in very simple language why money laundering in Estonia became even possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U338	Thank you. I am afraid, of course, in a very simple language, it is difficult to answer that question. And more importantly, much of what I'm going through right now is to find an answer to that question. We do not have an answer to how it could have been that every eighth euro that moved in money laundering in the world went through Estonia at one point and no one noticed. The politicians didn't understand, the officials didn't understand, the supervisory bodies didn't understand. Nobody understood anything. How is that possible? That's the question we're looking for.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U339	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U340	Thank you. Martin, it should be very easy to answer that question. I think I know the answer, but just in case, I'm asking. Martin, can you tell me from this remote now that this deal is not going to benefit you or your party in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U341	I can put my hands on my heart and my hands on the Bible and say that I can't benefit.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U342	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U343	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. You have questioned the competence of the head of the Estonian Defence Forces in your own words. About your advisor, there's just been an article in the paper about how he's dealing with pressure on the banks to open bank accounts closed by the oligarchs because of possible money laundering. I ran through your and Jaak Madison's Facebook accounts and looked at the New News, and I didn't see any of you speaking on Belarus. The new news wrote something, but it was more like, yes, there is something, but it's not that bad. It seems that you are refraining from anything that might in any way upset Russia. Perhaps you can correct this mistake here and state your position on what is happening in Belarus.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U344	Firstly, in my opinion, Herem itself questioned its competence with the view that we do not need mid-ground air control. Secondly, I do not know why you said 'oligarhs' because a specific case has been highlighted. And I explained that this particular case had to do with the cry for help from Kersti Kracht's constituency, that there was no payroll in the big company because it was frozen. Thirdly, the issue of Belarus. Our entire group voted in favour of the Riigikogu statement; everyone voted in favour of the Riigikogu statement, in my opinion, this should in itself have answered this question a long time ago. In my opinion, the vice-president of our political party, Speaker of the Riigikogu Henn Põljaas, has also made separate Facebook posts on this topic and has given interviews that are absolutely unambiguous and understandable. I don't know why we have to talk about the sun rising from the east. Well, that's clear. I have nothing to argue with the statement of the Riigikogu that was here. Belarus must stand up for democracy, there must be free elections and external intervention must be ruled out. It's obvious. I'm surprised, of course, that people overreact on vilavi's eyes are asking if we really think so. Well, let's guess!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U345	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U346	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Martin Helme! In an earlier reply to Mr Ossinovski, you said that Ragnar Meitern, a consultant offering his services free of charge, actually mediated contacts with about five or six other offices. Could you describe what offices they were and why they didn't qualify? On the other hand, the logic of public procurement seeks to ensure that there is no conflict of interest or hidden interests anywhere, and it is quite unusual that the person providing free services will later be on the service provider's payroll. As Minister of Finance, how do you explain to the entire public sector in Estonia, who must strictly comply with the rules of procedure regarding different procurements and the use of the services of suppliers, so that everything is clear, fair and transparent just, that the application of such a scheme anywhere else may not be in line with the interests of the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U347	Thank you. I already mentioned a couple. White & Case was the one, the same Gottlieb, whatever his long name was, and Bill Browder was the one he brought me in with. There were a few other companies, I can't tell right away. But what I want to say is that the people who gave free advice to the Estonian state during this process were still there. For example, there were several people on the board of the Estonian Bar Association who gave us free advice during this process, helped us understand this world and this procedure. I asked for this advice so that as a minister or an Estonian state, the Estonian taxpayer, I would not be put in a bag. I'm absolutely convinced we got a very good deal. We got a very good company at a good price. We had no reason to play with anyone. We were looking for a good company at a reasonable price, and that's what we got. We had no reason [for the collusion]. We could have made a targeted deal if I wanted to. I wouldn't have gone and shopped around the world in different companies, I didn't need it. For this purpose there is a paragraph, it is directed to the offer at its discretion. That's what the law says, literally at the best discretion. I didn't have to do all this, but I did it anyway, because I wanted to get the best company I could. I wanted to get the widest possible choice and the best price possible. But now for the conflict of interest. This is not a very familiar world for me, a world of consultations. Whether [Ragnar Meitern] immediately told all these companies that if the deal succeeds, he wants to get some part of it, or he didn't say it, I can't comment today. He never asked us for money, and in that sense I have nothing to hide or condemn. If he was honest with them and said that whoever I've presented to you, if this contract is going to work, there's some sort of conventional reward between them, nor is it anything unusual in this world. The fact that it was some sort of collusion would only have been possible if he had stuck us with a company. But it wasn't. He brought us, I don't know, half a dozen companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U348	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U349	Yeah. No, colleagues, I wanted to ask my [before] colleague Sut, but then they said it wasn't a place. So that's my so-called third question. But my question is what many people who are watching it now would like to know. [[In the diner.]] If was... (Summing continues.) Yeah, I'll explain. The third question is because I wanted to ask Mr Sut [before], but then they said it wasn't a place, and I couldn't ask. So if anyone hasn't figured it out yet, it's my third question. But my question is what interests many who are watching this current agony on these questions. Usually when some kind of black money flows through some country, there's a lot of money left on the fingers of local politicians, millions. If one of the world's largest black money rivers flowed from Estonia, do you think there was something left on the fingers of politicians? If not, it will be a great exception in the history of the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U350	Thank you. Before I let the minister answer, Urve Tiidus had his hands up. Was there a procedural question? No, it wasn't. (Urve Tiidus: "He claimed that this was the third question. ") That was not the third question. Remember, at the beginning of the hearing, Peter Ernits accidentally pressed the button, actually, it's a different question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U351	Yeah, well, let's just say that the fact is that by this day there will be a very large number of money laundering cases that happened in 2007/2015 when this 'peak' period was outdated. The fact is that we have very, very little research into it at all, which, in my opinion, is already perverse in itself. The fact is, too, that in fact, we have not even been charged with more than a handful of bank employees, very low-level bank employees, and no further links have been sought. I've been sitting in the DA's office talking about these issues in the criminal police and, frankly, I was very surprised at how narrow the scope of their investigation is, how little they want to go in or how high they want to go up. I think it's like sticking them around to get a little bit more legs out of your belly. But the fact is that no one at political level or anywhere else has been prosecuted, [actions] has found no proof. Is it possible that there wasn't really anyone in Estonia who would have benefited substantially from it illegal or corrupt, and that's just how it happened? Anything in the world is possible, but it would be a first.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U352	Reuben Kaalep, please! Yes, please, procedural question, Andres Sutt! Microphone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U353	Thank you, Mr President. Why is there an outsider in the hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U354	Yeah, that's a perfectly reasonable question. Thank you for paying attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U355	You see, you don't even know when you want a minister. You don't want a minister. There's at least 14 committees here now, some of them still want to see him.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U356	Indeed, we are not allowed to be here during the sitting, yes, other than the members of the Riigikogu and the staff serving the Riigikogu. If so, upstairs or in the other courtroom. Thank you. Reuben Kaalep, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U357	Thank you again for giving me the floor. My question is as follows. Looking at culturally what has taken place here in the last few hours, it is very clear how the bizarre collective subconscious of the Reform Party goes into its background of money laundering and tries to project its black conscience into the ruling national government. Have you reached similar observations in your observations?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U358	Thank you. This is a very interesting anthropological hypothesis. We could talk about this for a while, but I've been here for hours, too. But a very interesting hypothesis.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U359	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U360	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Minister of Finance! You yourself have repeatedly referred to one name here, which actually has a pretty big role in this topic of Estonian money laundering and revealing it. This is Bill Browder. You also said you met Bill Browder, and he gave you all kinds of advice. Maybe you didn't even say that today, but you've said it before. I don't know if you've noticed that Bill Browder is supercritical about your choice when you chose Louis Freeh" to represent Estonia. And extremely critical precisely because he sees a very clear conflict of interest there, the connection that Louis Freeh has had to represent earlier Russian companies suspected of money laundering, representing companies who have been lobbying in America to cancel Magnitski's list and sanctions against these people. How do you interpret that Bill Browder, who runs through what you say as a positive figure, has actually clearly taken the view that you have made a big mistake when you have hired Louis Freeh"?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U361	Thank you. Yeah, well, think about it. They didn't hire him. That's one thing. The other thing is that Browder is a very critical person at all. You have no idea how critical he was to the Estonian prosecutor's office. I'm not going to have a private discussion here, but the criticism was extremely sharp. And he's also critical of the Russian authorities and the Russian prosecutor's office. But he also has a lot of interesting information. Do I consider all this to be objective information? I think we all understand that, not only in the ministry, but probably also in the office of a member of the parliament, you meet people who have very different agendas every day, very different goals and who all want something. You'll meet him, but you still have an opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U362	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U363	Thank you, good manager. Good Riina Sikkut said here that when Andres Sutt came to read a motion of distrust, she hoped for something, but something else came that she really liked. Understandably, I may not understand, but I do understand politically. And then after that, our good Kristina Shmigun-Luke looked to the honorable minister and asked if you would accept anything from what has been said to you. It didn't come as an answer for you to accept any of this. But I later thought that by listening to the text that Andres Sutt was reading, and although there was nothing deep in it, there was still one sentence. He said so, I quote more or less by heart, but I think it is right that you, Minister, have crumbled our Estonia. I would now ask whether you think you have broken Estonia of the Reform Party or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U364	Thank you. Yeah, no, no, I certainly don't disagree with all the things that were in that text in that sense. The concern for democracy in Estonia I have is completely sincere, and I also have a genuine concern for political culture. I just think that we have a diametrically different understanding of who is dragging this political culture into the mudality and undermining democracy here in Estonia with various things. Democracy is also undermined if massive corruption fails to be enlightened again and matures in some form of political subcurrents. This is certainly undermining democracy. We have one Estonia, no matter how much we argue with each other, we have one Estonia. This "we" and "you" are, of course, the way we talk every day. But, yeah, I hope I've really rocked the world of the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U365	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U366	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Martin! One more question. I'm sticking to the same subject. You're saying Bill Browder may have different motives, but I'll remind all the listeners that Bill Browder has started the same Magnitsky list. It was a lawyer representing him who was killed by the Russians and whose killers have now been sanctioned. With regard to this list, a company called Prevezon and [this lawyer] called on Natalia Vesselnitskaya to request that the Trump administration, if they won the election, abolish the sanctions. And it was this company that was represented after Louis Freeh. But you come in and talk more or less sympathetic or even try to make a neutral face about what Bill Browder and what's going on. If Bill Browder, who is actually the initiator and birther of this whole thing, finds that Louis Freeh is a very, very, very wrong person to represent Estonia, that is exactly what he has said, then I am surprised at two things: firstly, that the Estonian press has not done an interview with Bill Browder on this subject, and secondly, that you are so indifferent to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U367	Thank you. I must, of course, again disprove one lie, which is widely distributed by the fact that Freeh has represented Prevezon. He hasn't represented Prevezon, for one thing. And secondly, you do it all the time, you equalize the lawyer and the client, and there's not even a customer relationship here. But you first create a customer relationship and then you transfer the client's actions to a lawyer and tell him he's the same. It's not like that! The first truth of the western justice world is that a murderer also has the right to a lawyer, and this lawyer, this lawyer, is not himself a murderer, a social pariah. I've never protected Prevezon. Of course, it's some kind of... we all know what it is, don't we? I've never protected it. And I don't need to, because we have nothing to do with this. Louis Freeh participated in an episode in which a legal agreement was brokered between the United States Government and Prevezon without being a contractor of any kind. But all that Prevezon has done before or after that, or throughout his lifetime, is now happily transferred to Louis Freeh. This chain is wrong from the start, and that's why I don't have to worry about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U368	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U369	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Martin! I understand our colleagues' concerns about defence spending next year. Martin, could you give us an overview of the last state of defense spending planning next year? How much do they increase and what goes there? What do we do more? Of course, the decisions are not yet final, but what can we expect on 30 September?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U370	Thank you. Yeah, well, of course, we're gonna have to say right now that the budget negotiations are still in progress. Just like I'm done here, I'm gonna go after them again. But it's a pretty ugly slander again, like I'd like to cut defense expenses. No, I didn't. I wanted our defence expenditure, this general budget of the Ministry of Defence, to be 2% of GDP, as it has always been, as is the general political agreement and as is stated in the coalition agreement. We've never questioned it. In addition, there are automatic additional costs, which is also a political consensus, and there are allies' reception costs, which amount to EUR 10 million. So what's 2% of GDP? 2% of GDP today, before the recession or the economic crisis, was in the order of less than EUR 600 million, now somewhere more than 500 million. That's gonna be the cost of taking in the allies. In addition, a separate defence investment programme has been agreed, which, in a very simple way, is the procurement of ammunition and which runs from year to year with 20 million. So to 2% we put about 10 million more each year anyway, which is why our defence costs have been around 2.1 to 2.15% in recent years, in some years 2.18% of GDP. Now the GDP fell. Our calculation was that as a result, defence costs will fall overall. My proposal as Minister of Finance was that we make this fall. However, in addition to this, or in order not to reduce the actual contribution, we will make additional investments with signs. The two of our biggest deficits just might have an argument here with some people, but there's beach protection and mid-earth air control. We had different offers, which showed that the price for obtaining coastal defence would be 250 million in size and that the price for coastal defence missiles would be 50 million in size. If we wanted more mines, we'd have to add a few dozen million more. And I said let's make these investments right now. They were rejected. They said that we did not want a labeled money, we did not want an investment money that would increase defence spending and close specific defence gaps. Just give us the money. But as Minister of Finance, I know that this increase, which has been in recent years, is about EUR 100 million every year, the budget of the Ministry of Defence has increased so much. 100 million euros a year, some of which they cannot spend, they postpone it. 50 or 35 million euros per year will be pushed to the next year because they simply cannot make use of this money. Even the money they spend, they start to panic at the end of the year. In such a situation, to say that the overall volume will decrease, but that specific investments will be increased, there will be an increase in defence spending and the elimination of capacity gaps. And I think everyone wins. The final point is that we are at least talking about the fact that coastal defence could still be dealt with in the near future and that anti-aircraft would need to be discussed more. But where we're going at the end of the budget negotiations, I can't say.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U371	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U372	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I will listen to your answers on how no one has been called into question during this money laundering investigation and very few people have been prosecuted. It's like you're not happy with the work of our investigative bodies. My question is that it is as if you want to achieve a specific result. Would you now say who, as a result of this investigation, you think should be imprisoned or otherwise punished?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U373	Thank you. I'd go where the truth leads.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U374	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U375	Mr. Minister! Your last statement on how the Ministry of Defence has used budgetary resources, and this criticism of this, can you read about the position of EKRE and the loss of trust not only in the Commander of the Defence Forces, but also in the case of Defence Minister Jüri Luige?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U376	Thank you. No, you can't read it out of it. This can be seen in the proposal to improve the use of national defence funds, reduce capacity gaps and increase national defence spending in the coming years. You can read it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U377	Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U378	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to ask you about this infamous Prevezon. Last Wednesday, you have performed with a phrase, I would point out that the same Prevezon, of whom much has been said, was finally not convicted, which is all just one big noise and thunder. Is this for Prevezon's defense?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U379	Thank you. To be honest, Mr. Kert, I was hoping we'd talk about defense, defense money. But look! No, I think that [I said] was a necessary explanation in a situation where a great deal of information noise has been emitted into the air. I don't have any trouble protecting Prevezon or throwing him into the ambush from them. No, thank you, I'm not.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U380	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U381	Thank you. Mr. Minister! It's none of my business, but your confidence has long crossed the line where it would honor you. But that's it. Your party associates have repeatedly asked questions about this, and you yourself have been circling it in your speech and conversations as if the opposition, especially the Reform Party, had something to do with the money laundering that has taken place in Estonia. Do you really believe that? And if you believe that, explain how the Reform Party is involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U382	Thank you. I don't think that's a question of faith. This is a question that the investigative bodies need to look at. Who was guilty, and why, what was dealt with and where do the threads lead? As I said to one earlier question here, I have not labeled anyone that it should now be cuffed. Who would I like to drag out of this hall, out of politics? It's a question of our own, that's what we deal with every day. But I'm not getting involved in the investigation. As for honor, I'm not a very ambitious person. I don't need honor, but I'm happy to disappoint you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U383	Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thank you! Now let's go to the negotiations. The speech can be given by the representatives of the political groups, as usual for 5 + 3 minutes. The first to be heard is the representative of the group whose members are the initiator of mistrust. Kaja Kallas on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U384	I'll ask for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U385	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U386	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You have all read the motion of distrust that we presented today against Finance Minister Martin Helme. And today we have heard the Minister of Finance himself answering questions, but not answering them in substance. It did not refute the doubts that had arisen in connection with this particular contract. He didn't deny any of the other charges that he made. On the contrary, these doubts arose, and the list of lies and casseroles was further extended. All that's left now is the vote. And, in fact, before this vote, I would like to address first and foremost the representatives of the people of the Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen of the Isamaa Group. You're facing a finance minister who hasn't hidden his wish to erase the Fatherland. Looking at today's ratings, he's doing pretty well. Even today, in this chair of speech, he forgot that Fatherland has been in government in the meantime. But when he remembered it, he said that Fatherland was an accomplice to money laundering in Estonia. The same Minister of Finance has pushed forward to the Fatherland. So he robbed Fatherland of the election promise concerning the destruction of the pension system and made it his own. But this is not the issue of current mistrust. He has also started to organise defence procurement in place of the Minister of Defence of the Fatherland, seeking to direct contracts to specific companies. He also gave very detailed instructions on the ammunition and equipment that should be stored on this speaker's desk today. It's inappropriate, to put it mildly. Questions about the corruption of such practices clearly require answers. The Minister of Finance has also arranged to receive state legal aid by passing the Minister of Justice of Isamaa, which has resulted in an agreement with the American law firm, in which no one understands what the purpose and purpose of this agreement is and what the Estonian state receives from it. However, we do know that the law firm itself receives EUR 3 million of taxpayers' money. The Minister of Finance has also ignored the warning of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Fatherland and the Foreign Intelligence Service regarding the conclusion of a contract with this particular law firm. Not to mention all insults and attacks on the voters of the Fatherland and the Fatherland. In this Chamber today, too, insults were repeatedly blown up. The Minister of Finance, of course, doesn't mean he offends people. Happy Fatherland ambassadors! If you press that red button today, you'll give the Minister of Finance even more impetus. He's going out of this hall saying the Riigikogu trusts me. If you press this red button, he'll go out of this hall and say that there's no reproach on my work in the Fatherland, because they trusted me infinitely. If you press the red button today, Martin Helme can say on his way out of here that he's right, there's no need for the Fatherland. The Ministers of the Fatherland, he doesn't think of anything. And if you press the red button, then actually Martin Helme has the right to the Fatherland in this form is not necessary. We don't know what you're standing for in this case. But since this vote has not yet taken place, good Fatherland ambassadors, the choice is yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U387	Katri Raik on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U388	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good fellows! Minister, Jupiter, as he called himself! We have been listening for three and a half hours to an undoubtedly talented politician who himself has today called himself a straight-faced man and a demagogue. I absolutely agree with that. He speaks plain and clear, doesn't get nervous, and lies and bashs extraordinarily nicely. Conservatives and people with weaker nervous systems are not easy to listen to in their speech and behavior. True, he is not a painter of this behavior, but he is definitely fighting for the first place. So much for Martin Helmes as a schoolteacher. But now the Minister of Finance. Ladies and gentlemen, The Special Committees have looked at materials that were 178 pages for several months in a row. Listening to Martin Helmet today, every time he said something, I had about three more questions, not that I had received an answer to [the questions asked]. I wouldn't trust Martin Helme with the Estonian state's money, neither Martin Helme with the Estonian state, nor with the Estonian state's money. Worse than that, I certainly wouldn't give her my own wallet. This procedure was not transparent. One particular law firm was simply played with the opportunity. I hope that the Estonian law enforcement authorities will monitor very closely in the coming years whether some of this 3 million will not return to the pockets of the subscribers or brokers. And to conclude. Martin Helme spins what he spins, but I don't think he convinced most of us. Transparency in decision-making in Estonia has fallen from a very high level to a very low level. This procurement procedure was not transparent and is very, very unfortunate. For this reason alone, Martin Helme does not deserve the opportunity to continue to be Minister of Finance. In our small country, it is important that we do all things in a transparent and best way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U389	Urmas Reitelmann on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U390	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, And above all, good people who, in one way or another, are watching this hearing in their homes, or who will read the minutes afterwards! Writer J.K. Rowling has expressed the idea that the truth is so fragile and gentle that it must be kept very carefully. In this hall today, the truth has been brutally raped, like a savage. The question of trust may seem like ordinary political mud wrestling, and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu give us the opportunity to do it from time to time, but today is more than that. For the past six months, the Reform Party has tried to prevent the government from investigating one of the world's largest, even epic money laundering that has taken place through Estonia. We all know that Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Finance of the Reform Party at the time, was responsible for monitoring money laundering amounting to hundreds of billions of euros. It is understandable that the Reform Party and the Minister for Money Laundering have fear. They fear that an investigation may reveal their potential involvement or criminal negligence in money laundering schemes. They are afraid that the current investigation may not be the last one and that in the end, the 10 million dollars of VEB-Fondi, R-Maintenance, Autorollo, plastic bags, lemons and the endless list of the Tallinn Port will be brought to light again. The Reform Party is afraid that if they stay away from power for too long, they will also lose their fellow supporters who expect political return. And they also have the fear of losing voters who finally understand that the development of the Estonian state took place not as a result of the 17 years of governance of the Reform Party, but in spite of it. Today's vote of distrust by the Reform Party is to blame the criminal's defence tactics for those who have exposed the criminal and are demanding responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, Estonian prisons are filled with inmates who spend time and amuse themselves by writing an infinite number of complaints, and the rule of law requires officials to deal with them all. In the same way, we are forced here to deal with childish accusations against the Minister of Finance. We can also draw a second parallel, for example, with what happened in 2007. At the time, people were knocked out in the streets, the police cuffed them, and later the same people filed damages for excessive use of force. Many of them were successful, the rule of law rewarded criminals and punished policemen. Today, reform parties are trying to frame and punish a minister who is involved in crime control and cleaning up behind Jürgen Ligi. As a party with a criminal weight, panicked rodents would prefer cover-up and shit to continue. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's choice is actually extremely simple. If you vote in favour of mistrust of the Minister of Finance, this will give your approval to cover up the criminal schemes of reform parties and other white-collars. If, on the other hand, you choose to remain a minister, you will ensure that the work continues by the government, which has undertaken an investigation into large-scale money laundering and is trying to remedy the enormous reputational damage suffered by the Estonian state during the rule of the Reform Party. The Estonian people deserve a government that shows the criminals their place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U391	Thank you. There's no further call, I'm closing the negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. I would remind you that the Minister has been distrusted when the majority of the Riigikogu is in favour of the publication of censure. I shall now put the application to the vote. No, not yet. I will put it to the vote after the call to the Chamber so that all our honourable members of the Riigikogu can arrive here. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the motion of censure on Minister of Finance Martin Helme. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U392	There are 45 members of the Riigikogu, 53 respondents and no abstentions. Thus, the Minister of Finance Martin Helme was not distrusted by the Riigikogu. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U393	Now let's go to business. Today's item is the second reading of the Spatial Data Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Bill of Amendment of the Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act 196. Mr. Erki Savisaare, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment of the Speaker's Board, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U394	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 18 May this year. The first reading was completed on 17 June. The members of the Riigikogu, political groups and committees of the Riigikogu did not propose amendments by the deadline for submitting amendments, 3 July at 4 p.m. During the period between the first reading and the second reading of the draft proposal, the draft was discussed at the Commission meeting on 14 September. There have been linguistic and technical changes to the draft, which have not changed the content of the draft. At the meeting of 14 September, the Committee on the Environment decided to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu today and to propose that the second reading be stopped. When the second reading is completed, refer the draft to the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U395	Thank you. Everyone will now have the opportunity to ask the rapporteur questions up to two oral questions of one minute duration. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U396	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I have a question: has the Commission also thought about how it would be possible to exempt housing associations from the burdens imposed by the municipality, which obliges them to clean and clean the streets belonging to the city bordering the property?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U397	Thank you. The Committee on the Environment has not discussed this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U398	Tarmo Kruusimäe, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U399	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Obviously, you also had a question with the Association of Housing Associations. Did you just focus on this bill, or have you heard it's a grudge? Or does it turn out that, as chairman of the committee, you have not heard a murmur on this subject and that this issue is still too crude?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U400	Thank you. Within the framework of this draft, we focused our debate on the content of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U401	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U402	Thank you, good Chairman! Dear co-workers, who are still here at this moment and who have already made the start-up, or the spine of the week is broken! It went like it did. No grenades after the battle, but I'd like to talk about something else. We have a municipal election coming up next year. And surprisingly, to me, a small-time member of the local government council, people are still turning to me. It's extremely strange. The municipality imposes an obligation on both private houses and housing associations: the obligation to keep the roads and streets belonging to the local government in order and clean. Example from Lasnamägi: There is a sidewalk behind the house after a large green area, where few people go, but the housing company's own limited financial resources must keep it clean. I believe that such a solution is simply a burden imposed on the owners of private dwellings by the local government. Yes, we should actually look at how it has been done in the nearest countries. It is not clear that it can be eliminated and declared invalid, because, as we know, local authorities always have little money. The local government would like to arrange one, two, three and four for this money. If it's necessary, we don't know. However, I would like to say, as a matter of fact, that in neighbouring countries the local authority comes to some agreement with its own citizens, which is compensated for by the fact that the owners of private homes are completely free-willing to clean the streets belonging to the city or belonging to the local government. In the city of Tallinn, of course, this volunteer isn't a volunteer, but you'll only have to lie on the sidewalk for a moment, fly out like the Batmans don't know where the muponators came from, and they'll be ready to make fines. But the city could tell us what the citizen actually gets for taking over the responsibilities of the city. I think every city should keep its own sidewalk clean. And there is no need to set up any repressive bodies, such as mupo, who are going to fine people even if the owner is suddenly ill. Perhaps he has broken his leg on another street belonging to the city of Tallinn, which is not limited to any other property. So I would like to say that we have a year to think about whether this issue is acute. You can all go and ask where you live. And maybe together we could find out what these local government strawberries are, or, as some are saying, sausages or sardines, which may be offered to housing companies and owners. Because today, in 2020, just to say that we have this practice and that it should continue to be so, is no longer competent. So, good co-workers, go home, go to your neighborhood and ask how it is and what satisfaction it is that just housing associations, out of their small resources, must also keep the roads owned by the local government, which border their property, clean and clean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U403	Thank you. No more words, closing... Is Kalvi Tough a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U404	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! I'm gonna look at our house and work and look at the agenda. Did we have a free microphone right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U405	It was a negotiation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U406	Oh, I thought it was like a free microphone. It wasn't much to do with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U407	Thank you. By the end of the day, it was related to the housing associations and its law. Since there is no further call request, I will close the negotiations. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 196. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U408	We will go to the next item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Act 229 on the ratification of the Treaties to accede to the Convention establishing the European Centre for Medium-Term Weather Forecasts initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Rene Kokk, Minister of the Environment. Please! Speaking for up to 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U409	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! You have before you the draft Act on the ratification of the Treaties for accession to the Convention of the European Centre for Medium-Term Weather Forecasts initiated by the Government of the Republic, hereinafter referred to as the Convention on the establishment of a European Weather Centre. The main objective of the draft is to accede to the Convention establishing the European Weather Centre and to the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities that accompanies it, which allows Estonia to become a full member of the Convention. It is also necessary to ratify the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the European Weather Centre on accession to the Convention and the conditions attached thereto, signed on 3 June 2020. The European Weather Centre is an independent intergovernmental organisation whose main task is to develop medium to up to 15 days of weather forecasts and to provide medium-term weather forecasts for Member States. Information from the European Weather Centre is one of the most important bases for weather forecasts and warnings prepared by the Environment Agency. Estonia has been a co-operative member of the European weather centre since 2005. Compared to the status of a co-operative member, full membership gives Estonia several advantages. As weather forecasts are prepared in all developed countries with complex mathematical modelling on supercomputers, one of the main benefits of Estonia's becoming a fully-fledged member is to have access to the best quality data and special computational capacities and recording tools. In conclusion, using the resources of the European Weather Centre will give Estonia the opportunity to reduce investment in IT infrastructure in the future. It is estimated that using the calculation and archiving resources of the European Weather Centre will bring savings of EUR 250000 per year compared to its individual investment. Full membership rights to use the resources of the European Weather Centre and are also essential for international cooperation on the development of limited weather forecasting models, both for resource sharing and for intellectual property rights. Accession to the Convention will have a positive impact, above all, on weather, climate and environmental information and services, allowing for more accurate weather forecasts and thereby better climate and environmental status and assessment of its change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U410	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the opportunity to ask questions. But it seems there are no questions. Thank you, Minister. Next, I would like to ask Mart Võrguship, member of the Environment Committee, to co-rapporteur here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U411	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 15 September, the Committee on the Environment discussed the draft ratification of the agreements necessary for the establishment of the European Centre for Medium-Term Weather Services, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and Taimar Ala, Director of the Environment Agency, presented a presentation on Estonia's accession to the Convention establishing the European Centre for Medium-Term Weather Services, hereinafter ECMWF. He said that Estonia has been a co-operative member since 2005, but we cannot participate in decision-making processes in the current status, nor can we use the benefits offered by the Centre, such as the calculation resource. The agreement between Estonia and ECMWF on accession to the Convention was signed, as the Minister said, including on 3 June, and it is now necessary to ratify the Convention together with the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities and the Accession Agreement. Estonia's main benefit from ratification is the use of calculation resources, but the Government of the Republic has also decided to participate in the procurement of the site published by ECMWF and for this purpose ratification must be completed by 31 October 2020 at the latest. The acquisition of the land of the location has been announced in connection with Brexit as the headquarters of the centre is located in Great Britain. ECMWF provides medium-term weather forecasts for Member States, conducts climate and environmental analyses and acts as both a research centre and an operational service. It also manages one of Europe's largest supercomputers and data archives. Full membership of ECMWF is important, as international information exchange and development work help to improve the quality of forecasts. The calculation and data storage resources provided by the Centre allow long-term coverage of the required resource needs for modelling without major investments. Now to the debate in the Committee on the Environment. Member of the Commission Heiki Kranich asked what decisions could be influenced as a full member of Estonia. Taimar Ala replied that the entire decision-making process has been broken down in the Convention, but as a full member, we could talk about the research lines, how to draw up the budget and which cooperation projects to choose. Heiki Kranich made a descriptive remark that some references were incorrect in the translation text. A representative of the Ministry promised to check them out. Peeter Ernits investigated that if Estonia could win the procurement of the location area, how many foreigners would work in this centre. Taimar Ala replied that up to 250 staff from different countries would be employed at the centre. Yoko Alender asked how other countries involved in the procurement of the location area were operating, and what exactly is the medium-term perspective in weather forecast. Taimar Ala replied that other countries involved in the procurement are lobbying and using different tactics. He stated that the head office would still be in Great Britain, that the computing centre would move to Italy, and that the services financed by the European Union would move to the winning country. The medium-term perspective in weather forecast is a ten-day forecast. For the sake of clarity, I myself made it clear in the Commission that ratification of this Treaty is still necessary, in particular, for more precise weather forecasting data and calculation capacity. That's the basic idea. In the Commission, we decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 23 September, that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 16 a.m. on 30 September 2020. It was decided to appoint me as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U412	Thank you. Are there any questions, ladies and gentlemen? No, it's not. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Since there is no wish for negotiations, I will close them at the same time. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 229. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 30 September at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U413	Today's sixth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Holidays and Celebrations Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Please waitress to Mr Heljo Pikhof, member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U414	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! The draft under discussion amends the Holidays and Holidays Act by giving an additional holiday on the next working day for a weekly holiday or a public holiday. An extra holiday is not given for a public holiday, which is always on Sunday. The first holiday of the Easter and the first festival of Pentecost shall not be compensated by the day off on the next working day. This year, one mobile public holiday falls on the holiday, when the second Christmas holiday, 26 December, will be on Saturday. Three public holidays will take place in 2021: 1 May, Spring Day, Saturday, and the first and second Christmas Day on Saturday and Sunday respectively. The public holidays, accompanied by a free day, are ten in Estonia, while the average in the European Union countries is 12. There are 13 moving holidays from neighbouring countries in Finland and 12 moving holidays in Latvia. Additional holidays are also granted for public holidays in Belgium, Bulgaria, Spain, Ireland and Luxembourg. In Malta, public holidays during the weekend are partially compensated. When we look back, in 2017 the proposal "Add a holiday if the national holiday or public holiday falls to the weekend" received 1065 signatures in the public initiative.ee in four days and was processed as a collective appeal. With similar regulation, the draft was also discussed in the Riigikogu in 2004. Previously, the idea of giving an extra holiday for the weekend has been expressed by representatives of the Centre Party, the EKRE and the Social Democrats. We also have a European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions, whose job is to make a scientific contribution to social, employment and work-related policy-making and to conduct EU-wide surveys on working conditions and quality of life. They stress that people with a balance between work and private life have better health and spiritual well-being than others. The worker's work-life balance is therefore a blessing not only for himself but also for the employer and society at large. Although the work week of almost 40 hours is valid in half of the European Union countries, and although we share the last place with other countries in the troubling community in our narrow 9 to 10 public holidays, the Estonian is the sovereign leader of the annual work hours. The analysis of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu reveals that the working hours of the annual period are the most employed in the European Union in Estonia, Greece, Lithuania, Hungary, Poland and the least in France, Denmark, Sweden, Germany and Norway. The European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions, mentioned above, also maintains a table comparing working time, the length of annual leave and the number of public holidays free of work. According to this, the Estonian working person worked an average of 1740 hours in 2018, while the Frenchman worked 1602 hours and the average European figure here is 1714 hours per year. At the same time, 1555 hours were worked in Finland and 1699 hours in Latvia. The average number of hours worked in Estonia as a bill would decrease in the year, but would still be significantly higher than in our neighbouring countries. One of the tricks is that the actual number of holidays varies year by year, depending on the number of holidays falling on the weekend. Many countries in the European Union use their own specific order in the second day off from work to compensate for these days, not all of them now. Slovakia, for example, has 15 public holidays. On several sides the simplest regulation is used: if a public holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, it will be transferred to the following working day. However, there are other techniques, such as the addition of holidays to annual leave, and a paid holiday is given to a worker at the same time as a public holiday. A bridge system is widely used to transfer days to maintain the integrity of the week. So the Social Democrats are proposing to the Riigikogu that Monday be free for the working person when the national holiday falls on Saturday or Sunday. It certainly does nothing to harm a person's working and productivity if he gets a few more days a year to rest or to go to nature with the whole family, for example. I call for support for the draft initiated by the Social Democrats. I repeat: in the past, the idea of giving additional holidays for the weekend has been expressed by representatives of the Centre Party, the EKRE and, of course, the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U415	Thank you. You have questions too, good waitress. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U416	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! The science-based study you have there, has it also discussed the possibility of giving a person a day after his birthday on a voluntary basis for a rest day? Maybe we shouldn't, let's say, the whole society shouldn't be so frantic that Monday should be freed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U417	Thank you. There is an opportunity to ask the employer for a day off, if, let's say, there's no way after the birthday.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U418	Tarmo Kruusimäe, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U419	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! In my opinion, this proposal is still extremely hypocritical for you. I think, for example, people who live abstinence are able to come to work on Monday, whether it's a national holiday on a weekend or just a beautiful Saturday or even a more beautiful Sunday. How will the voices of these people be taken into account when it is still believed that most of us should be guided by those who are unable to take ourselves to the task force by Monday?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U420	Thank you for your question. In fact, this bill deals with public holidays and national holidays, not birthdays.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U421	Thank you. No further questions. I would like to ask Paul Puustusmaa, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for the next chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U422	Thank you very much, manager. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Heljo for his spirited presentation, although I must say that in the committee this presentation was perhaps with a stronger emotional charge. At this point, it may have made me feel tired to some extent, but okay. Let's go to this bill. It has been initiated by the Social Democratic Party on 27 February 2020. The first reading took place in the Commission on 5 May. Sorry, first reading was May 12th. No, I'm sorry, still on May 5th, I'm making a mess of myself. It was May 5. The members of the committee were Kalle Grünthal, Kaja Kallas, Siim Kiisler, Andrei Korobeinik, Lauri Läänemets, Hanno Pevkur, Martin Repinski, Taavi Rõivas. Deputy Chancellor Sten Andreas Ehrlich of the Ministry of Social Affairs' work area was also invited. As I said earlier, a good Heljo gave us a report and it was a highly emotionally charged and a very pleasant presentation in itself. There, too, he stressed in the same way that the various political groups had given their support to this idea and that he expected this support to be included in the present composition. Of course, as we still have with many draft laws, it is not just the Commission that discusses the draft. They are discussed among themselves by politicians in a debate on cost matters; they are discussed in a political group. When we in the Commission had heard the report together and discussed it among ourselves, it was clearly felt that there would probably not be such broad support for very different reasons. When the debate had been away, we went to the procedural votes. Decisions were taken by consensus during the vote. It was originally decided that this thing would come to the big hall on May 12th. As we know, the virus did its job and the deadlines for the procedure were delayed. But basically, it was decided to come to this hall, and today is the day he came to the big hall, based on the decision of the next meeting. However, other decisions were taken at this meeting. At the meeting, it was decided to appoint me rapporteur by the Commission and it was proposed that this draft be rejected at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U423	Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U424	Thank you. Mr. Waitress! Could you explain, describe, what your own personal position on this bill is?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U425	This is a little more complicated because we had a pretty heated debate in the group on this subject. What I can say is that, after the end of this dispute, we also came to one another in a consensus that we would not support this draft. I joined this consensual idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U426	Thank you. No further questions. We now have the opportunity to open negotiations where only the representatives of the political groups will get the floor. It seems to me that there is no wish for a word and there is no negotiation. Next, we should go to the vote, before it's a lieutenant. It seems that there is no one party in the Chamber, but nevertheless, we are going to the vote. The commission's proposal was to reject the draft at first reading. I therefore put to the vote to reject the draft proposal by the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U427	There are 53 members of the Riigikogu, against 8. By doing so, the draft has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U428	Agenda item number seven is the first reading of the draft law amending the Act on Unemployment Insurance initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group 199. A speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U429	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! The draft law amending the Act on Unemployment Insurance, initiated by the Socialists, extends the scope of the unemployment benefit and increases the amount of unemployment benefit. According to the proposed amendment to the draft, the unemployment benefit rate will rise to 70% on the first day of unemployment [100], from day 101 to 50% of the average salary of the employee. The draft provides for an extension of the range of beneficiaries of unemployment insurance benefits, also for workers and servants who terminate their contract of employment or employment on their own initiative or with the agreement of the parties. The aim of the draft is to improve the economic livelihood of the unemployed while looking for a job, enabling them to go to training to find a job that meets their skills and expectations. Ladies and gentlemen, The economic crisis following the health crisis has a drastic impact on the labour market situation. The number of registered unemployed has increased from 30467 to nearly 50000 over the year. We keep hearing about new layoffs. Unemployment, in turn, threatens risk groups, i.e. older people, people with disabilities, young people and other languages, but all others, as we can see from the areas affected first. If we look at today's situation, our insufficient social protection for the unemployed will not give them a breather, will not allow them to go to training, to re-skill or to look for an appropriate job, but will force them to take the first job in progress or to make them withdraw from the labour market prematurely. The number of early retirement pensions has increased steadily among those who have lost their jobs or have made it more difficult for them to look abroad. Now that there is uncertainty around, it is the duty of the state to give a person confidence that if he falls into trouble, he will not be left alone. In order to protect the people who have lost their jobs, decisive action is needed and today's unemployment insurance system urgently needs to be improved. But how? First of all, as I said, the number of beneficiaries of unemployment benefit must be broadened. The present procedure does not entitle those whose employment was terminated by agreement between the parties or at the initiative of the staff member to compensation. However, it is mostly not the free will of the employee who ends this employment, but the compulsion, sometimes the ignorance. Both the unemployment fund and the Tax and Customs Board have analysed the causes of unemployment. For example, in 2018, 70200 employees were terminated at their own request and 77000 employees were terminated with the agreement of the parties. It's largely voluntary-forced. Currently, 33% of all unemployed receive unemployment benefit and 26% receive unemployment benefit. In other words, 41% of those who lose their jobs will not get a cent from the unemployment fund. They just don't qualify. However, they have also paid their unemployment contributions. And the sad side effect is that a tenth of the unemployed don't even register at the unemployment fund, according to the poll, because they don't have any money there. This deprives them of other necessary labour market services, such as further training and retraining. Insurance protection must also extend to people who have left work formally, either by agreement between the parties or at their own request. And, of course, those who have been dismissed as a result of a breach of their duties or on similar grounds are excluded from the range of beneficiaries. If the employment relationship was terminated by agreement between the parties or on the initiative of the staff member, the draft provides that the payment of the benefit is postponed by 30 days of unemployment, i.e. the money starts to run from the 31st day onwards. This standstill limit is also in place in several other countries and should reduce the risk that, for example, in the event of redundancy, employers will only terminate their employment relationships with the agreement of the parties. Now, when it comes to Member States where self-employed people with sufficient insurance status are entitled to unemployment benefit, this right is, as a rule, limited to a waiting period, a low amount of unemployment benefit or a relatively short period of payment. So there are some limitations. For example, Denmark has a three-week waiting period, Austria has four weeks and Cyprus has a six-week waiting period. Repeatedly, research by the OECD and the European Commission, for example, and our own National Audit Office, have also highlighted the need to change the unemployment benefit system. And it has been said that Estonia has not met the requirements of the European Social Charter. After all, the minimum level of unemployment benefit is very low and the same is the case for unemployment benefits. If we look at unemployment benefit, it is today EUR 189, from the coming year to the year 270, with a minimum of EUR 221 per month in 2019. Now, speaking of the minimum unemployment benefit, if this is the case, as the new percentage was recently set for the first 100 days at 60%, then that means that the person receives the first 100 days at 350 euros and then only 233 euros. Isn't it a little small, though? When we talk about how long unemployment and unemployment benefit are paid in Estonia, the unemployment benefit is paid for up to 270 days and the unemployment benefit is paid for 180 days or up to 360 days depending on the previous insurance period. Although it was only recently that we raised the unemployment benefit rate on the first 100 days of unemployment to 60% of the employee's average wage, the percentage of unemployment benefit passed on to 101 days was not raised. And if a person has worked full-time and received a minimum wage, he will receive a compensation of EUR 350 on the first day of 100 and, as I said earlier, only EUR 233 per month. Our fundamental step is to increase unemployment benefit rates and, on the first 100 days of unemployment, it should be 70% of previous income and 50% from that country, or 101 days. If we take today's minimum wage, the recipient of the minimum wage would receive EUR 408 for the first 100 days, as proposed by us, and then EUR 292. There must also be an increase in unemployment benefit, which I have already talked about. Our point is also that neither the unemployment benefit nor the minimum unemployment benefit can be less than 60% of the minimum wage. Maybe 350 euros a month is the minimum where it might be. If we look back in time, the Employment Contracts Act, which was adopted in 2008, extended the circle of beneficiaries of unemployment benefit by agreement between the parties and on their own initiative to leave the country. The unemployment benefit rate was also increased, but these changes were unfortunately not implemented at the time. The justification was the economic crisis. Now that mistake must be corrected. It's not wise to step on the same rag again. Finally. It is wiser to keep people in the labour market. Keep them active when they have lost their jobs so that they can receive employment services so that they have the motivation to register at the unemployment fund. And later, once they've been re-educated or re-educated so they can find a job that suits them and what really interests them. It is not the case that they have to accept the first job that is offered to them, but which may not be the most appropriate job for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U430	Thank you. You have questions too. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U431	Thank you. Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear waitress, You touched those people who are now in difficulty and need unemployment benefit very well. My question is about those people who may not be in trouble yet. I understand that it is in the interests of both the employer and the state and the person that a person gets the best possible education, that he or she can learn more. The better the knowledge, the higher the pay, the more value added, the better we all do. Let me get this straight: if I have a job that doesn't allow me to learn and I should quit, then today this system is blocking it, I no longer have any income and I can't study? Let me get this straight. This bill is the one that should solve this problem. So people can learn when they can't work?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U432	Thank you for your question. Yeah. If a person has worked long enough, has enough unemployment insurance and leaves his/her job on his/her own initiative, studies, returns to work, either acquires a new specialty or supplements himself/herself in any case, this bill will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U433	Thank you. No further questions. I would like to ask Urmase Espenberg, member of the Social Affairs Committee, to co-rapporteur the Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U434	I was awfully thirsty after a long time of distrust. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed this draft at its meeting on 15 September. Protocol 91 gives you the most important moments. As the author of the bill presented it quite thoroughly, I am not going to go over this again. A representative of the government, Sten Andreas Ehrlich, was also present. The representative of the government said that he was in principle in favour of the [draft]; he was in agreement with the content of the draft. However, the government cannot support this and for two reasons. First of all, it wasn't until the end of the year that we raised that percentage from 50 to 60. Secondly, it costs about 24 million a year. When it comes to people who leave voluntarily or voluntarily, the discussion is ongoing. However, a representative of the government said that, since no consensus has been found between several different parties, there is a labour dispute committee and all kinds of social partners, there is currently no solution to this. Helmen Küttt was concerned that if a person leaves voluntarily or with the agreement of the parties, he would be able to register himself unemployed and receive a grant. The government representative, Ehrlich, said that if he were left with no income, he would have every right to do so. So at the moment, the unemployment benefit is 189 [EUR] and next January will rise to 270. Helmen Kütt asked further whether the members of the management board of non-profit organisations, public limited companies, private limited companies who did not receive remuneration qualify for labour support. On this point, the representative of the government said that it should also be agreed that this is a very sensible proposal, especially for small companies, which have one or two employees, who are often in trouble when work is lost or something happens. These negotiations also had to take place, but the result has not yet been achieved. Tõnis Mölder was interested in how much it increases the state budget as a percentage. Ehrlich replied that half a percent of about, 0.5. According to the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, when the draft is adopted or goes to second reading, ten working days are proposed for improvement, as usual. Three decisions were taken, all of which were consensual. First, send [the draft] 199 to first reading. Second, to appoint a person in front of you as a waitress. Thirdly, propose that the draft be rejected at first reading by 5 votes: 4. That'll be all.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U435	Any questions for the waitress? Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U436	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, What was the main reason for rejecting the proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U437	As I understood from the government representative, there were two main reasons: there was still money, and there was also a lack of consensus on a few issues. For example, negotiations with EVEA have not been very advanced.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U438	Thank you. Since everyone has two questions, there can be no more. There are no other questioners. Thank you. As the proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft at first reading, we must have a vote. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject 199 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U439	There are 53 members of the Riigikogu, 9 against, no abstentions. By doing so, the draft has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U440	Today's last item, No 8, is the first reading of the draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act 197 initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Lauri Läänemets, member of the Riigikogu, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U441	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill amends the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act by increasing the unemployment benefit rate to at least 60% of the previous year's minimum wage. It also provides that if the unemployment benefit is higher than the unemployment benefit, the benefit is paid at the rate of the unemployment benefit. With this year's state budget, the amount of unemployment benefit is EUR 183 per month, but the absolute poverty limit is EUR 215 per month, which means that the unemployment benefit currently paid does not even help out of absolute poverty. If we remember what the previous speaker said, unemployment benefit can be obtained for 180 or 360 days. Sorry, you can get unemployment benefit for so long. But when we think that unemployment benefit may not be paid for very long. For example, people who have worked for less than five years may receive unemployment benefit for six months, and if you also receive half a year's income below the limit of absolute poverty, these people will not succeed in any way. I ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U442	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you! I would like to ask Tõnis Mölder, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, to speak here. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U443	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On 15 September, the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft 197 initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. At first reading, as we did in the Commission, the draft was initiated on the ground and the Government's position was presented by a representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs. In short, the representative of the government said that the Government of the Republic supports the objective set out in the draft, but not in this form. The fundamental difference is that if today the rate of 50% of the minimum wage applies to unemployment benefits, this draft proposes 60% of the minimum wage for the previous year. In particular, there are budgetary scissors and the debate also pointed out that, on the basis of the summer forecast by the Ministry of Finance, for example, in 2021, the financial cost of supporting such a draft would be EUR 10 million in addition to the circa. After hearing this opinion, we had no further debate in the Commission. The following decisions were taken: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today, 23 September, to appoint Tõnis Mölder, Chairman of the Commission as rapporteur, to set 10 working days for the amendments. These decisions were consensual and the Commission proposed to reject the draft at first reading. It was supported by 5 members of the Commission and against 4.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U444	Members of the Riigikogu also have questions. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U445	Thank you, dear waitress. It is understandable that the Government of the Republic, in its opinion, still points out that there is an impact on the budget here. And, of course, many of the good things, especially in the social field, have a banner on money. To think that the government felt that it was a good thing of itself, that this objective should be supported, and I expect that Members in the Commission also supported this objective, then this 10 million is not a very big money now. Were there no more questions or ideas among the Members of the Commission, no more discussion? The government representative said it cost $10 million, and it went straight to the vote? Or was it also discussed that it could still be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U446	Thank you. Indeed, the Commission's debate was not long. It lasted about 10 minutes, and indeed we listened to the government's position. Members of the Commission also had one question. The question was what this budgetary dimension is, and I pointed it out: EUR 10 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U447	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U448	Thank you. My question concerns the amount of unemployment benefit. Don't you think it's gonna be 270 euros in high time next year? If we look at it, 2019 was a minimum of 220 euros per month, and next year it will perhaps be more than that already. People are either in deep poverty or near the border. 350 euros, as proposed by the Social Democrats, will at least keep up with the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U449	Thank you. The honest answer is that this issue was not discussed in the Commission. If I may express my personal position here, although I represent the Commission, I will simply say that, indeed, the aim of the draft is noble and correct. Here, in the future, different solutions must be found in these discussions, but indeed, the Commission found that this draft cannot be supported in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U450	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U451	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! I understood from your answers that the problem was in the 10 million. Did the Commission also discuss how this could be covered? For example, did somebody propose that, if we cancel this marriage referendum and cancel the agreement that we dealt with just before, it would be 2 + 3, i.e. 5 million already? Well, it's not that difficult to find a way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U452	Thank you. No, there were no such discussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U453	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U454	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You said that the debate in the Commission took a total of 10 minutes. Of course, if you don't want to ask, discuss or do anything. But how do you feel when it comes to the issue of the livelihood of thousands of people for them, it is almost a matter of life and death, you can say, is it appropriate if the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs is only 10 minutes long? That in just 10 minutes we'll vote off and stop working?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U455	Thank you. As far as labour market services are concerned and this side is concerned, indeed during the spring session we discussed these issues for a very long time, and this draft of yours has also been introduced in spring. In the meantime, it has taken some time, the government has shaped its position on this issue and, as the initiator of the draft admitted, there have really been some changes here in the meantime. We heard the initiator of the bill. The Commission is asking and discussing exactly as much as the Members of the Commission are eager, and so it did. Next time it is worth coming with a mute bill, then perhaps the debate will also be longer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U456	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U457	Honourable Chairman of the Commission! Raimond Kaljulaid had an idea where to get five million euros, I have an idea where to get the five million that is still missing. After all, you're taking several billions or millions of loans, and it's definitely gonna squeeze out that five million.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U458	Thank you. Surely the budgetary strategy and next year's state budget are, I think, the main theme of the following months in this hall, and then we can get back to these discussions. I certainly imagine the Social Democratic Party is taking the initiative here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U459	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U460	Dear Chairman, Good waitress! You said this bill was noble and good. I'm so glad to hear that. Why, then, did you not propose to support this draft and why did you vote against your conviction in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U461	As I said, the substance of the bill is noble and good in itself, but not in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U462	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U463	Thank you. Dear waitress, I would point out that, contrary to what I remember in the spring, the issues discussed, this draft is also about changing the unemployment insurance system. If the unemployment insurance contribution proves to be lower than the unemployment benefit, the unemployment insurance contribution shall not be paid at a lower rate than the unemployment benefit is, for example, in principle below the absolute poverty rate. Do I remember correctly that this issue was not discussed in the spring and was not amended by law?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U464	Thank you. I believe that this spring debate was wider than the debate on this draft. In essence, my message was this. Indeed, in the spring, various topics concerning the labour market were discussed. I think that this is what labour market services are doing, and precisely the level of unemployment benefits, and all of this must be discussed in the future, so I think these discussions are going to be. But, yes, that statement you put forward, I also have that understanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U465	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U466	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm sorry for your ignorance, but I don't know these nuances too well. You said if colleagues came up with a slightly mute bill, you could support it. But open my eyes a little bit, which would mean a little mute. The idea is noble, but what's the composition of this dumbest cocktail?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U467	Thank you. As I say, the content and purpose of the draft is noble and good, but once again, it must be looked at in accordance with the state budget, the budgetary possibilities. It is now a process in which negotiations are taking place on the state budget strategy, where the state budget for next year is being put together. I think it is right to come back to these issues at some point.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U468	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U469	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! You said this bill was noble and good, but this form isn't enough or it's not dumb enough. Why, then, did you not propose to improve and improve this bill, to make it even more mute? Why did you vote against your own convictions? Why are you opposed to improving the livelihood of thousands of people? Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U470	Thank you. Once again, we have been discussing these issues for a very long time and in depth in this Chamber in the spring. It is also evident that, if we now take a broader turn, the Social Democratic Party has entered into a series of practically two issues in one area. You could also have a little longer and more permanent look at this whole package of labour market services. I think that if there is such a broader and clearer issue, it will also be possible to discuss it further.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U471	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U472	Thank you. Dear waitress, With regard to the so-called amendment of laws in the same area, the government has always, one by one, pushed a number of different parts of the Aliens Act. This seems to be the usual lawmaking practice in Estonia. But you see, this government estimate of 10 million was about unemployment benefit, but the unemployment benefit part is actually a problem. If, for example, the person receives EUR 270 as unemployment benefit, but the person receives EUR 200 as unemployment benefit, the situation is completely absurd. Neither is this money from the state budget; it is money collected by people themselves. Don't you think it still needs to be changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U473	Thank you. We did not discuss these issues from this perspective in the Commission, but I agree with you in principle that the country and the government could have a longer plan coming up with different laws. After all, we see in our work that sometimes ministries come out with a draft, and before this draft reaches its first reading, amendments have already been proposed. I think it would be a good idea to measure it seven times and cut it once. This is perhaps an idea for all the members of the government as well as for the parties in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U474	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U475	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! You kept saying it was in the spring, and then summer will come. First of all, I want to say that we are aware of the change of seasons. But my question is, is it the wrong bill or the wrong time? You say it could be discussed, it is noble and good, but it could be done sometime later, or it should have been done in spring or summer. Please specify when this is the correct date. So we can orientate somehow.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U476	Thank you. As I said, there are budgetary discussions ahead, and I think that if there is a wish, we can come back to these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U477	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U478	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Good chairman of the committee! I listened, I listened, and I couldn't tell, I had to ask. We have several mute drafts in the Committee on Social Affairs, not even on the agenda. But the question about this bill is as follows. In the interests of the verbatim, who has proposed to reject it!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U479	Thank you. For the sake of the report, I say that, if you read the Commission's minutes and remember this situation, I think the chairman of the committee did so.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U480	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. In my opening session speech, I congratulated our colleagues on their eloquence, and the Group of the Social Democratic Party is now to be congratulated on the active and eloquent protection of positions. There is now an opportunity for this, because I am opening negotiations and Lauri Läänemets will have the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U481	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The Commission has very good principles, as we have heard: basically, it is a good thing, but it cannot be supported. These principles somehow express themselves and work out interestingly. Ten million euros are missing in a situation where companies such as Porto Franco or Tallink are found to have a loan. As far as I can remember, Porto Franco wins $10 million on interest for five years. Actually, the money could be worth a lot of money here. When people need to be supported, people in need, that's why there's no money. Then there's some kind of principle that you don't know where to take this money from. But then, if you need companies, if you need your friends, to support any of your acquaintances, those who might somehow benefit the party, well, as is found. These are poor lies and bad principles. There should be no such thing, especially in the Committee on Social Affairs. But in fact, the bigger issue is the whole system of unemployment benefit and unemployment benefit. After all, this system has been made, rather than on a human-centred basis, but more on an employer-centred basis. If you don't have a job, you're gonna have to get back to work fast. Our system immediately forces a person to go back to work quickly because you are staying on some kind of unemployment benefit, which is actually a non-existent amount. They don't want to find $10 million here to lift it a little bit. After all, the unemployment benefit ends at one point, you have to go to work immediately. But actually, if we were to think humanly, this system should rather be something like this, that when I finish my job, it's a normal thing. This is no end of the world or sin before society. It's a normal thing. My job could end for two reasons. One thing is that I don't want to work in this position anymore and I want to look for another job. Then there should not be a system that forces me to accept the first or second job, which does not suit me, which does not match my skills, which does not allow me to make myself known, but that system should allow a person to look around and choose what he likes. And another thing: when you're out of work or you're out of employment, there should be a way to go to study. We have not taken it into account in all these systems that learning can be equal to work. Because the smarter the person, the better he has the skills, the better he does the job. And the better he does, the more he creates added value for himself, creates for his family, creates for the employer and creates for society as well. That should be our goal. So I am still calling on coalition parties to think that perhaps it is possible to find the 10 million that these people need between all these billions, so that these people do not get into trouble, so that these people do not fall into poverty. Let us not vote against this bill. Let's change it! And if this 10 million is not an argument for you, and if you are not interested in raising unemployment benefit, then we will think of this side of unemployment insurance or benefit. Today, the situation is that I have paid unemployment insurance contributions, yes, I have a lower salary, but I can also get a much lower amount of unemployment benefit than there is, and that is a completely absurd situation. Let's change it! Let's just change the part! These amendments can be tabled. I ask for your support on this!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U482	Thank you. It seems that there is no further wish for negotiation. I'm closing the negotiations. As the lead committee has come to consider a proposal to reject the draft 197 at first reading, we must vote. It seems that the final votes will all be carried out without the participation of one party. In line with the proposal of the commission, I am voting to reject the draft proposal 197 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-23_U483	It's 45 against 9 envoys. The draft has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure. I thank everyone for working this long day and having a nice evening! The sitting is adjourned.
