ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and ladies and gentlemen. Let's start our Wednesday briefing. And as usual, first the presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U2	36 members of the Riigikogu are present, 65 are missing. Peter Ernits, is this a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I see that there are three ministers sitting there, but one, in this case the Minister of Justice, is simply imprisoned for two hours. Shouldn't this be changed eventually, though, so that if there are no questions, you don't have to sit here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U4	The question itself is entirely justified. Indeed, we have often had a situation where there are also ministers here who have not been asked questions. But this is a matter of our Home and Working Procedures Act, which can be changed by members of the Riigikogu. An amendment can be made to this effect. But actually for the Minister of Justice, there's a question today, the sixth in line. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps and Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg. And, as always, today is the first time to get a question from pre-registered questioners. They will also have the opportunity to clarify or add to the question, and then there may be an additional question from the hall. The length of the question is two minutes and the answer is three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U5	The first author of the pre-registered question is Kaja Kallas, who is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U6	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! We've read in the press that the Centre Party has received major donations from Hillar Teder. First of all, congratulations on getting relief from your big money problems. But I have to admit, it doesn't look good at all. In fact, we learned from the press that the first donation of EUR 30000 was received by you on 1 July 2020 and on 30 July the government decided to grant a working capital loan of 39,4 million to Porto Franco, a member of Teder, significantly more favourable than market conditions. In addition to making this government decision, Hillar Teder donated another 30,000. Now the question is, did you, as Prime Minister, know that Hillar Teder has made such a great donation to the Centre Party before the government's decision was taken?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U7	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! I think it's an arbitrary conclusion that if someone makes a donation, there must definitely be a specific decision to be made with this donor. You bind the Estonian entrepreneur Hillar Teder and, I understand, the decision made on Porto Franco, which has come through KredEx. First of all, what I want to say is that yes, the government's desk is really going through, and this has been one of the conditions for crisis measures, large investments of over 10 million, as well as large financing decisions. They're going through the government table, that's true. However, all this preparation work will be done by KredEx. It's done by KredEx with his experts, his specialists. I have no information about this connection, and it has also been refuted by the Secretary-General of both the company and the Centre Party. The two things you want to arbitrarily put together, nothing connects. Both Mikhail Korb and Hillar Teder have disproved it. I have no idea that this entrepreneur could have given the Estonian Centre Party support to the NGO, which is linked to this Porto Franco decision. No, that's not the connection. Does the Secretary-General give information about receipts in a political party with a certain regularity? Yes, it does. We now have a new order because of one of the previous donations we returned. If you're asking for a date, I really don't know what date he gave the information. But it doesn't matter whether that date was before the government decided on Porto Franco, or after that, it doesn't play any role in this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U8	Echo Kallas, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U9	Thank you. Otherwise, this could be accepted, but there are simply companies that so much benefit from working capital loans from the state's market conditions. One such company is Porto Franco. I didn't quite understand the answer, either you knew it before the government decided or you didn't. If you knew, didn't you start ringing some bells on your own, some lights didn't turn on, that it at least looks bad-looking for the whole scheme, where money is given, where you decide to put taxpayers' money at the disposal of one company, and after that decision has been made, another donation comes for that decision? In any case, it doesn't look good in the collection. And the explanations we have read through the press are not credible, to put it mildly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U10	It seems to me a long time ago that the Reform Party has distanced itself from its roots and principles. I remember the Reform Party, who has really stood for Estonian entrepreneurship, for the freedom of the Estonian business climate, for the economic environment. And now you, good and esteemed Kaja Kallas, are doing everything you can to show us how one entrepreneur, how one company is involved in some dark deals. Of course, it's your choice. I don't have to worry about the programmatic principles of the Reform Party. But I think it's how you're all willing to sell to get political change, I don't think that's the right thing to do. I believe that your constituents will evaluate this if you use everything that can be sold in politics for change, and you say you see, there's a connection, there's some kind of dim scheme again. I don't know, maybe you have such dim schemes in your party, maybe you guys are wearing these schematics, that you see, someone donated, then a decision came and then donated again. First of all, this entrepreneur, as far as I know, has previously donated to various Estonian political parties, as far as I know, also to the Estonian Central Party. I repeat once again: with the link you want to force into the picture, into the political struggle, you are actually worsening the image and image of businesses. There's no connection. Why did Porto Franco's decision, as you say, be more favourable than market conditions? All these decisions, all those government decisions that have affected more than 10 million, have been made at a more favourable rate than market conditions, at a better interest rate. This has been the principle, it has been the case that, during the crisis, it has been the case to help make a difference so that important investments can continue in Estonia. There are a lot of different companies.. well, very many of them are not, six-seven.. who have received these amounts: Tallink, Alexela on we have made the first positive decision, Magnetic MRO and some others. There are six or seven companies. And that is the reason why we want to help to have employment there so that investments continue. The same Porto Franco that, at least according to the government's sense, is important? The important thing is that this is a major real estate development. The important thing is that, as far as I know, half a thousand people get jobs every day on a construction field or site. What is important is that it brings about 20 million tax money back to the Estonian economy each year. I think these were the main arguments why we decided this way. But yes, create such an artificial link that, uh, now it can be linked to one another, I think it will simply make the image of Estonian entrepreneurs and the economic environment worse. I wouldn't do that if I were the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U11	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You have now attacked the Reform Party that it is abandoning its principles and worsening the business environment in Estonia. I dare say that the Reform Party will certainly not do so, and the Reform Party is concerned that today's government tends to do so. The public clearly gets the impression that if you want to be an entrepreneur, if you want to do business successfully, you might have to give someone a favor. Unfortunately, cases such as these, where the fact that a favourable loan has been received from the state and that a donation has been made at the next moment or before, may still be very clearly linked in the eyes of the attentive opposition, and also in the eyes of the media of the Centre Party, it seems, in the eyes of the malicious press. If you read the ERR information, this picture will be drawn from it: on 1 July, 30,000 euros have been donated to the Centre Party; at the beginning of September, KredEx has made a decision; you indicated that it was KredEx's decision; on 3 September, the government has confirmed it and then the donation has been made again on 9 September. It gives the impression, no matter what, that these things can be connected. My question is: as Prime Minister today, as Head of the Centre Party, can you confirm that there is no connection between Porto Franco's loan and the donations made to the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U13	Thank you. Yeah, I can confirm. Now, let's go: I'm definitely not attacking anyone. I'm sure I'm not attacking anyone, but I'm saying what I think is a fact. You need to think about your constituents too. I think you're moving away from your fundamental principles. And all right, you can move away, the Reform Party can come into the left niche in Estonian politics or the middle niche you want to come to, right? But what I want to say is that, in my opinion, it is not fair that you reject a fundamental principle such as freedom to conduct a business. Supporting the reputation of entrepreneurs, a good reputation has always been important to Estonia. And now you're enjoying yourself, aren't you? You're tying these things together. It has been said that there is no connection. Of course, that is your political right, and you can do it. I understand, I understand very well what you are doing in a political sense. But I'm saying I think there's a price in society. This debate isn't just in this room. But you didn't mention that. You're gonna read it out for a long time, and you're gonna bring out exactly how the dates run, and you're gonna see that there's a strong connection. I knocked it over. As far as I know, this company has supported political parties in the past. I also told Mrs Kaja Kallas that she had supported the Centre Party before, even as far as I know, when we did not even know what COVID-19 was yet, and no decisions had been made. It is true that entrepreneurs as individuals support different world views, support the Reform Party, support other parties as well as the Centre Party. It's legal. I think you really want to change this thing back into change and say that you see that we're all going down. The main thing is the political title, the fact that you can blackmail or attack someone again. So to your question, is there a connection here, I said there is no connection. The party's secretary-general has also said this, and the entrepreneur has also said so. And I feel completely free and completely secure in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U14	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U15	Next, Indrek Saar asks and is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U16	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister! When you handed over the budget to the Riigikogu on 30 September with a political statement, I was not able to find the words 'poverty', 'inequality' and 'justice' in your speech, which you have otherwise liked to talk about. You have identified the reduction of inequality as one of the very important issues for the government of which you are now Prime Minister. As a reminder, when the Social Democrats went to government in 2014, the aim was to have as few children as possible, so that there would preferably not be any children in Estonia who have to go to bed on an empty stomach at night or who cannot develop their abilities, because the family does not have the means. In 2014, when we were in the government, we raised child benefits and since then we have raised these benefits in different governments, including income support per child. We have also been working on creating opportunities for recreational education. And there's been a result. In 2014, there were just over 9% of children in absolute poverty. By 2018, these are now the latest data, i.e. 1.6%, or nearly 20,000 children, have been helped out of absolute poverty. And I think it's been the right thing, that's what a country has to do. But if we look now at the explanatory memorandum to the state budget for our proceedings, on page 286, we can see that the government in office is planning a 218% increase next year in the number of children living in absolute poverty compared to 2018. And even in four years, this figure will be almost twice today, more precisely 1.94 times today. In four years' time, we will be talking about some 4,000 additional children living in absolute poverty. My question to you is: why is reducing the number of children living in poverty not a priority for you? Why don't you have the ambition to keep at least an existing level that has been achieved over the years?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U17	First of all, I sincerely thank you for this question, it is very topical and with serious content. For me, it is a very high priority to make every effort to reduce the level of absolute child poverty or that percentage of the number of children, and to reduce constantly. You admonished me that I did not speak to the honourable Riigikogu on 30 September in my political statement on reducing poverty and inequality. I don't agree with that in any way. Yes, I did! I was talking, for example, about the extraordinary increase in pensions, I was talking about the fact that there will be no statutory indexation of pensions from April 2021, but we want to raise the base to EUR 16. In the case of pensions, we want to take more account of raising children and increase the amount paid for one child by 3.55 euros per month. And I also said that we want to raise the national pension by 30 euros. These are very clear objectives. I certainly spoke in my presentation about regional support, the support of local governments, which will certainly reduce inequality in Estonian society. You have asked a very nice question about budgetary policy choices. So let's go to the details. You, Good Indrek Saar, are most likely to refer to the welfare development plan that has been established for the years 2016 to 2023. These rates of absolute child poverty, which you mentioned, are really correct and in this development plan. The country's budgetary strategy does not change any development plan. What you said about children's absolute poverty indicators, for example, was 3.2% in 2017 and 1.6% in 2018, as you said, is also correct. I have been consulting on this issue lately, and also today, and it can be safely said that the best knowledge of the Ministry of Social Affairs is now that the level of absolute poverty among children has decreased compared to 2018; it is the last year that we know of and will continue to decline. The 2019 data will be available by the end of 2020 when the Statistical Office tells us. But what I'm trying to say is that we are certainly not planning on raising the level of child poverty. However, I think there was one very correct principle in your question. And this principle is that if we do not have any new data, if we receive data with a certain time reference, then I believe that the fulfilment of the benchmarks should be included in the national budgetary strategy in the future and these improvements could have already been introduced. So I think that the next country's budgetary strategy can already be improved. But the percentages that you have read out, yes, can clearly be said that our position is already better today than that stated in the wellbeing development plan for the years 2016 to 1023. I'm sorry I'm out of time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U18	Indrek Saar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U19	Thank you for the floor. Interestingly, I asked about the kids. You started talking about pensions. I asked about child poverty, you started talking about pensions. I'd still stick to child poverty. I am talking about the table in the explanatory memorandum to the draft state budget. The draft budget that you have transferred to us contains indicators that say that child poverty will increase exponentially this year and then decrease with this 0.1% step until 2024, but it will still be twice as big as it was in 2018. When I look at the budget, I find nothing specifically aimed at helping children living in absolute poverty. And please don't talk to me about pensions again! Kaude may say, of course, that if pensioners do better, they help their grandchildren too, but that's not... We understand that this is not, in fact, the most effective way to combat absolute child poverty, although the rise in pensions is a very nice thing and certainly very sympathetic. But if you didn't find any other means, wouldn't you think about spending at least 1.8 million on one referendum this year, which doesn't make any child's life any better? Rather, it could happen the other way around. The young people we are talking about now, people up to 17 years of age, I think that many of them already have a position on this issue and they certainly do not think that such a referendum should be held. You're going to spend 1.8 million. On the basis of the target of child poverty that you have foreseen in the budget, it can be said that every child would receive EUR 200 if they were distributed to each of them. This would certainly help to reduce children's absolute poverty. Perhaps you'll consider redirecting that money?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U20	Thank you, good questioner. I'll answer you. I'm trying to answer as keenly as I am, but I'm certainly not as sharp a politician as you are, Mr. Island. You started with your question, you can look it up in the verbatim, saying that I didn't say anything about poverty and inequality in my report. And I told you I told you. For most of my time, I devoted my response to children's absolute poverty targets. I have explained very clearly to you why these numbers are not in line with real reality. And I think you understand that. The country's budgetary strategy does not change any development plan. I also replied to you that the reference levels for absolute child poverty, which are set out in the welfare development plan and, consequently, in the country's budgetary strategy, are due to the fact that we do not have fresh rates. In fact, the country's budgetary strategy could indicate compliance with these benchmarks. It should be pointed out. And that, I think, can be improved in the future, like I said. I understand what you're saying. You are saying that the absolute poverty rate for children fell to 1.6% by 2018. And indeed, it has been a great fall. In 2015, the same number was 5,1%. I also agree with what you said about the Social Democrats. Yeah, you've really been lucky to raise child benefits in a few governments. Yes, you are, and that is a commendable thing. But the number you want to blame me for the fact that the country's budget strategy envisages, I don't know, a few hundred percent or a multiple of how mathematically correct it is to say, an increase, that desire is not true. I say once again that today's assessment by the Ministry of Social Affairs is that the level of the year 2018, which was 1.6%, is the last indicator of child poverty that we know of, has already fallen and will continue to decline. That's what I told you. However, this technical error in the RES should, in my opinion, really be corrected in the future. The wisdom you raised, Mr. Island, must certainly be taken with you. Now, you're saying let's not talk about anything else. Indeed, the support of the first and second children has risen, and it is certainly a great service of your party, but also a service of the then coalition government and the Riigikogu, who decided it. I am pleased that child support has been raised since the third child, and which I think is still very nice: there has also been an increase in benefits for families rich in children. Take, for example, the allowance for a family rich in children: for three to six children, it is EUR 300 per month, for seven or more children, EUR 400 per month. I think these are also positive steps. If poverty is measured, I think it is also important that incomes have increased. Mr. Saar, together we have set a tax-free minimum. Remember? 500 euros. It was important to you at the time, it was important to me at the time, and it is important to me today. It has also helped to solve the problem a little.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U21	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In answer to the previous question, you were quite upset that we are referencing material published in the press. I'm going to go back to the press and try to quote it. June 18, 2019: "The Harju County Court today accepted the application of the prosecutor's office and ended the Centre Party with a covertly funded businessman named Hillar Teder's case with an opportunity. " You, Prime Minister, have a feeling that you are being attacked unfairly or that the subject is being treated unfairly. And then we hear that part of this donation was made because it was nice for the government to finance a race, an international competition whose decision was not yet made that day. After all, you understand that members of the Riigikogu, the public and other entrepreneurs have the suspicion that things are not clean. You are probably aware that other real estate developers have also criticised this decision and criticised it because it is not very reasonable to support the economy in this way. This creates unhealthy competition and an advantage for certain undertakings because their risks are paid off. It has been so easy to allocate 30 million, but so far it has not been possible to decide on a strawberry grower whose economic loss due to the direct action of the government is obvious. Do you know how and want to comment on it? Why has it gone like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U23	Thank you. Of course I would like to comment. Thank you for this question. I don't know, as I replied to the honourable Kaja Kallas, I will answer you. I wonder if you'd like to step on this rake on purpose. It not only hits our nose and your nose, but actually hits the Estonian economic environment very hard. You now have a toothful Hillar Teder, an Estonian entrepreneur. As far as I know, this entrepreneur has really donated to the Estonian Centre Party in the past. Last time in the same order of magnitude last year. But, as far as I know, this company has also supported a good, committed party with orvades of the Reform Party. In my opinion, he has donated over EUR 650000 over the last eight years, if my information is correct. And that's okay, I don't blame it if companies support political parties in compliance with the law. This is allowed in Estonia. You see, your party has received 651000 euros from this person if my information is correct. Other political parties have also received money in Estonia. But that's why I don't blame this businessman. I would like to say that this wording of yours, the setting up of this topic directly destroys the reputation of the Estonian entrepreneur, the reputation of Estonian business. That's why I said that I don't think it makes sense that I think you're getting away from your roots. Now, you're talking about Rally Estonia, which I think this entrepreneur said was largely the reason. The decision to support Rally Estonia was taken by the government at its meeting on 2 July, but it was preceded, I think, by a preparatory period of about a month, by discussions. In principle, the decision to support the event was taken by the Office of the Government of the Republic at its meeting on 18 June. There the Ministry of Culture was given the task of preparing the request for allocation of funds for the meeting on 2 July, and after the official decision of the Government on 2 July, the signing of the contract for the right of organisation took place at the Stenbock House. At that time there was also a promoter for the World Series of Rally, who also signed it and later attended a press conference. Now, your claims that some companies are saying that Porto Franco is bad. In Estonia, several entrepreneurs have told me that support for Tallink was bad. There have been a number of companies saying that all these seven contributions have been very bad. But I'm different. I have thought, and still think, that these subsidies have helped the Estonian economy, helped the Estonian people to keep their jobs and bread on the table, helped to keep employment and what can be denied here, it also helps to keep tax receipts back. That is the handwriting of today's crisis. Different than before.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U24	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U25	The question number three in line is Liina Kersna. He is answered by the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U26	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, Recently, we have again received confirmation from the OECD's PISA analysis that the Estonian education system provides as much equal opportunities as possible for good education. And really, live in Väätsa, Antslas, Lüllemäe, Tartu or Tallinn, the probability that a child will receive a very good education is very high in Estonia. At the same time, we are warned by international research into distance learning that distance learning can widen the educational gap. That those who have done well in school can also do well in distance learning in general, but children with special educational needs, for example, may be left behind more. This is a threat to be considered. At the beginning of the school year, the Ministry of Education and Research said very clearly that if there is an infection in school, the class where the infection took place will go to distance training at first speed, and if 10% of the school family is infected, then the whole school will go to distance training. Today we see that schools go to distance education even if there are only one or two infected in the schoolhouse. In particular, in Tallina, a number of schools have gone to so-called hybrid education as a preventive measure, where one or two weeks are in contact education and then in distance learning. As Minister of Education, how do you feel that the state has given schools and school holders as clear and understandable guidance as possible on how to ensure that students receive the best possible education while also maintaining the health of the school family?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U27	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, thank you to all of us! Especially for those who contribute to education, be they teachers or parents, indeed, this very difficult spring has been relatively successful. Of course, we all realize that there were children who went harder. There were also very different outcomes within families. When several children went to school in the family, one could say that for a child on a computer like this and perhaps a little more personalized learning, managing his/her own learning process was somehow easier than the other. It didn't even depend on age. Some children also needed support in primary school grades. What's the status today? We really saw in the spring that at the time these processes were all necessary. We needed to declare an emergency, it has been analysed very well afterwards. But now that the Health Board, in cooperation with the PBA and the regional crisis management centres, has been very well able to track contacts and quickly identify close contacts, we have greater confidence. Those August decisions were correct. Of course, we review decisions every week and every ten days. Each region is different. There are still regions in Estonia where there are no infections at all or there have been one or two cases for weeks. There are very, very many of these "green regions" in Estonia. As a result, the decision to disperse education in schools or to direct some students to distance learning in schools has been necessary only in three regions of Estonia: Ida-Viru County, Tallinn with Harjumaa and in one period Võru County. So these have been these examples. But yes, there have been infections, as we now know, in Tartu and elsewhere. There's just more fireplaces. And in the case of school colleges, it is also important to take into account that infection has been through teachers, then a circle of nearby ones. Why have some schools come up with a decision that does not only concern one class? This is a purely collaborative decision, when they see that there are too many cross-contacts, especially with regard to teachers, and they cannot say for sure whether this 15-minute exposure is not limited to a part of the students. And then it's a pretty complicated decision, but only for two weeks. I believe that two weeks is the period that we should continue to talk about, unless it is reduced to 10 days with scientists at night. But one way or another, this is a period that does not really change the quality of learning to a greater extent in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U28	Liina Kersna, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U29	Thank you very much. Thank you for your answer, Minister. Today, for example, children of small classes, or children with special educational needs, are also being sent to distance training for prevention purposes in Tallinn, especially in need of teachers' personal attention. I understand that the purpose of hybrid learning is to reduce the number of people in the schoolhouse. But small-class kids are small-class kids, there's two-three-four-five-six kids. To me, it doesn't seem reasonable to pre-empt a small class of distance learning. My question is: has the Ministry of Education and Research given more specific guidance to schools and schoolkeepers on the teaching of children with special needs?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U30	Thank you, good questioner! I am sorry that one thing was not specified in the answer to the previous question. What, then, were those autumn guidelines? That's a real question! Yes, we, say, the legal form by the Ministry of Education and Research is a guideline for schools and schoolchildren, but, of course, in real life, the issues are actually quite detailed. Very often, schools call and ask directly, even demanding guidance on what should be done in the current situation. Now, this hybrid form of study is in two parts. As an educational person, I'm sure you know they're doing tests or summaries. For example, Tallinn University has carried out such analyses in the form of a quick survey. It has also produced results on a school-based basis, for example, that part of HEV students outside the school environment, learning at their own pace at home, was very good. And at least in some schools, such as we, the good questioner, both very well know, this decision has been made precisely because they say that about a third of their HEV students have signalled both parents and with their results that it should suit them. But it's been a pretty sharp subject for parents. I believe that, in this example, I would say so, there must be very bold feedback from parents. It doesn't have to be through the board of directors, it can be directly, so it's given to the school board. HEV coordinators are mandatory in schools. In these schools, where there are many students, they are very responsible people, and if they receive a parent's signal that hybrid education is not suitable for their child, then the schools have made a promise to us too, so that these children will certainly not be directed to hybrid education. Unless, of course, the school has to impose a general quarantine period of, for example, two weeks. And I dare say that some gymnasts like it too. Upper secondary school classes are quite boldly sent to distance learning, and not as a preventive measure, but simply because in spring it seemed in some schools that distance learning is quite charming. I'd say there was such affection. They would like to see more of such learning management or taking responsibility on their own. Therefore, upper secondary school classes are very boldly taught in cycles: every second week or every third week you study at home. Some gymnasts, however, have said that this is an extremely heavy burden on them. The study load is very high anyway, but teachers only take new parts in the weeks they are in school. The volume of the repetition in our schools is very large, and the study volume of the Republic of Estonia is very, very large, and in this case the independent work expected of the student is so extensive that it is too much for them. In general, I believe that this enthusiasm for distance learning requires even more analysis and feedback to schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U31	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U32	Thank you. Good minister! My question is not about distance learning, but it is motivated by distance learning. We have disabled children and other children with special educational needs who are really more complicated. We are talking about care classes, living classes and, in fact, institutions such as the Education College of Maarja County. Teaching these children at home is obviously extremely difficult; parents lack this skill. We had this experience in the spring. Everyone tried their best. But I have a question: what has been the cooperation between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Research in the summer and now? Should it happen that some or all of these students need to be supported outside of school or to find other learning solutions, which forms and models of cooperation are designed? Local authorities also play a very important role, of course, and have quite a number of tasks related to social services in the context of the organisation of education. Therefore, cooperation with other ministries and local authorities. What are the plans for helping these families and children?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U33	Thank you. The very first guideline, the most important guideline, is that, until the last chance, we certainly want to keep the institutions open. And not only educational institutions, but also day care or systems that are supported at all, that act as a family and home model. This is a common desire in all areas. The hope has been aroused by the fact that when we think about spring, fortunately, there were no outbreaks in schools, and teachers are now much bolder than in spring. At least today's feedback is such that all these schools are in tune with that they definitely want to be, as much as is necessary, only in temporary distance learning. At the moment, the feedback is this, I would stress that, in the case of children with special needs, there is, in general, already a high degree of dispersal in school, especially in the case of children with the most severe disability, that they would rather use personal protective equipment more. For example, the teachers are willing to work with the visor, but would like the children to come to school. Now we're working together. Of course, especially during this crisis, cooperation between institutions should be commended. This is particularly visible in regional centres, where everyone really contributes: the health care system, the social system, local government representatives. Rescue officers took the lead in all the work very forcefully. The reason is that they have received so much training in crisis management. But yes, everything was brought to one table already in the spring, and this work is now continuing. That's one. There is, of course, communication at national level, but we must admit that our work has been so intense that there has been very little time when people can think together or brainstorm. Rather, there has been this constant crisis management and prevention to prevent certain things. For example, people concentrate on mental health issues or personal protective equipment, or try to find extra money to collect medicines when they need to. These have been rather very busy and very intensive meetings, which you may hear from your former colleagues. But there hasn't been a peaceful time when we discussed with several ministries how to support certain children better, for example. These meetings have been postponed for the time being. This is likely to be felt in this house too, as some legislative initiatives have been a little delayed as of March. Some working groups are still working, but rather cooperation is taking place at the level of intensive solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U34	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U35	The next question, in order of number 4, is asked by Ivari Padar. He'll be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U36	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! The effects of this crisis are different, and some effects we are already seeing today, some perhaps not. But even in the tourism sector, the impact is very radical. Something has arrived in some other sectors and something is predictable. The impact of the crisis on agriculture has certainly arrived, and this is also reflected in the buying-in prices of agricultural products, whether milk, pigmeat or bovine animals, both live bovine and beef. There is a crisis and prices have fallen drastically. In this context, both the Latvian and Lithuanian governments have acted very well: crisis relief measures have either been developed or have already been implemented. In this context, our state budget for next year is quite startling. The Minister for Rural Affairs spoke in the Committee on Rural Affairs about 60 million or even more than 60 million additional funds, which we believe were targeted at sensible things. But the result was zero. Except for one thing concerning 1% of GDP for R &amp; D. It is very gratifying that this will bring an amount of 5.8 million to the Ministry of Agriculture, but at that point this money was not in the ministerial package. But this 5.8 million for God, that's the right thing. What's happened? Is this another revenge on farmers that they have dared to speak against this government? The market economy is a market economy, but if the market economy is running out of stupid political decisions, it will be traumatized the most: from the labour dance we have been through to the clear zero in the budget for next year's additional request. What's the matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U37	Thank you very much, good questioner. Good Ivar Padar, I will be honest with you that I think you are a good member of the Riigikogu. You are a good man, you are asking serious questions, important questions and Estonian agriculture, the agricultural sector is certainly very strongly in your soul and heart. And I'll be honest with you, in my soul and in my heart, too. I think it's a starting point. If you take the agricultural sector and the rural sector as a whole and support farmers, this has been a very strong priority for me. I start with the fact that there was a lot of debate in 2016 about transitional subsidies, or top-ups. You will also remember that in 2017, 2018 and 2019 they were paid out at the maximum level. There will be no payment at maximum level in 2020 and, as far as I know, 5.3 million are missing, and I will work with the government on this, so that we can find the money to pay transition grants, or top-up, over the course of this year. So that's another 5.3 million. So we're working today to find those opportunities. Yes, you are right: transition grants for next year are currently not included in the budget. It's not, as you say, revenge. On the contrary, we have tried to support the agricultural sector not only here in Estonia, but also in the very difficult, difficult negotiations of the European Union. You rightly said that the effects of the crisis are different, and I fully agree that they are quite large in the agricultural sector. Today, however, we have good news of direct payments. You also know, I believe, you have fought yourself, you have stood in the same way, you have stood in front of the chest, there in Brussels, and you have said that there is nothing to be done, that direct payments must be harmonised. We see today that real harmonisation will take place in favour of the Baltic States in 2022. Hectare support will rise from EUR 176 to EUR 200 by 2022 next year. I think it is very important that we have, I would say, a breakthrough in direct payments. The second plus is that, for rural payments, this is the second pillar, we managed to increase the size of EUR 60 million in the very difficult health and economic crisis negotiations. But I agree with what you have pointed out that the effect of COVID-19 is great. However, we must look at the whole agricultural sector, we must look at what is happening, for example, in Poland and Germany. As a result of the African swine fever, the European market, particularly in Germany, is in fact closed to pig meat, and this means that the price of pig meat is currently in a very strong decline. In my opinion, the government must now act very quickly to provide assistance and support to pigmeat producers in two crises at once. I have met representatives of the sector, negotiations are ongoing at government level, we are trying to find the best and quick solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U38	Ivari Padar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U39	Thank you. It is clear that one half of the solution to the problem is the new funding period for the European Union from 2022, but this is the so-called interim period. In two years, we really need emergency measures. In the case of beef, I am very optimistic that the Turkish market will recover at some point, that the Turkish people will not stop consuming Halal beef in Estonia. But the Minister of Rural Affairs has so far been in a position to negotiate exceptional support measures in view of the reserve of the Government of the Republic of next year. This is the order of magnitude of the aid paid by Latvia and Lithuania, even on the basis of which the aid was paid, amounting to EUR 20 to 30 million. I am going to Tartu today, where there is an annual exhibition of Estonian agriculture and I have to speak there as a member of the Riigikogu. The peasant doesn't matter, you're in opposition or coalition, he's waiting for the message the Prime Minister said today. How likely do you think that, from next year's budget, it will be possible to support Estonian agriculture in the same order of magnitude as in Latvia and Lithuania, on account of the reserve of the Government of the Republic? How much optimism do you give?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U40	Honourable Member of the Riigikogu Ivari Padar! Well, how can I tell the man in Navi village what he has to say to farmers or not to tell him? I'm sure you'll say the right words that describe the picture specifically and professionally. I told you that we are working to increase the amount of transitional allowances in 2020. That's point one. I also said that I have really met representatives of the sector. I cannot predict the potential of the Turkish market, its opening. I know that Asia is stuck today, and if it is stuck in Europe, if it is stuck in Germany, then it will automatically be a very severe blow for our pig farmers too. Very hard hit! I think that the market, I don't know, is currently 90-95% pig farmers actually below the waterline. So we're gonna have to come back here and help quickly. You are asking whether our grants, these crisis relief grants, could be of the same size as Latvia and Lithuania. Point one: Latvia and Lithuania are, you know, larger countries than we are. So there's no way we're going to have to go around here and pay exactly the same amount of money. I don't think it makes any sense to either of us. But it needs to be worked out to find solutions, and very quickly. And not only next year, but already this year, when it comes to transitional payments, when it comes to supporting the pigmeat sector. I think this is necessary and important. You say what's been is what it's been. On the one hand, this is right, on the other hand, we still have to look at how quickly we have acted this year, which is the present, 2020. The sector has received crisis relief grants through the MES, guarantees of up to EUR 50 million, working loans of up to EUR 100 million and land capital of up to EUR 50 million. I know that the Minister for Rural Affairs has just signed a regulation providing emergency support to address the liquidity problems encountered by agricultural products and food distribution companies in foreign markets due to COVID-19. The budget for this measure should be approximately EUR 1,5 million. But yes, I agree with you that we must also look to the future. I would certainly like you to have a safe ride to Tartu, good meetings, interesting meetings, substantive meetings. But yes, I don't think we have time to wait until next year. Crisis relief measures still need to be assessed very seriously and to do their best to be able to help certain sectors this year, I would say even in the near future. This is what I really work for, and always with interest, I listen to your professional suggestions on what to do. They're useful.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U41	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! In addition to what Ivari Padar said, there are still a lot of things that are missing from the budget. This propaganda speech you gave us when you presented the budget here, and the budget document that reached us, it is like from completely different worlds. I would just like to pay attention to new investments. The list of new investments is disturbingly thin, disturbingly short, strangely short. Let me give you a few examples here. Yesterday, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we were visited by the Minister for Economic Affairs, Taavi Aas. We will take new road investments in next year's budget. Ending traffic nodes, highway sections, which started when Taavi Kõivas was prime minister. New road investments: one four-km stretch of road between Kärevere and Kardla and one intersection in the city of Tartu and all! There are no more new road investments, there are closures of existing projects and nodes. But at the same time, let's look at the figures that look back on the budget: 2.4 billion loans are scheduled to be made next year. And what we're gonna do next year is we're gonna take out a loan, $3 billion! Maybe 3 billion doesn't come in handy, but 2 billion does. A total of four to five billion over the next two years. But what do we get in return for that? At the same time, it is said that funds for investment will be expected from the European Re-launch Fund on the basis of a recovery plan. All of these helicopters and highways and all of them have been pushed under the restart fund, but this money is designed for green and digital conversion. I'm asking you, what is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U43	Thank you, Mr. Sõerd. I will tell you in the same way as the previous questioner, whose talk on agricultural matters sounded like music to my ears. Really, there's a lot to learn, just like you when you talk about the financial world. What's the matter? The point is that we want to keep the health of the Estonian people, the Estonian people, to stimulate the economy and to help keep as much employment as possible during the economic crisis. I think that is why Estonia would look at it right now in this crisis so that we would use it like this behind the horizon, the future, so that we would make smart investments, so that we would take innovative steps that would give us, after the crisis, after the pandemic, in a good way, into the wings of the wind. But right now, we could use it. You also mentioned the previous questioner here. I really didn't get a chance to tell her one thing. Ivari Padar also pointed out that we contribute 1% of GDP to R &amp; D. You're not saying this is a bad idea, are you, Mr Sõerd? I believe that you also support it, and you also consider it right, as Mr Padar actually acknowledged. And I want to say that this is not only in the budget for next year, but throughout the country's budget strategy. I didn't give any propaganda speech. I'm not capable of that... I understand that you always have propaganda speeches in the group, the propaganda champions, are the reform parties. I can't do this. So it was a meaningful speech. I introduced, right, the budget, the budgetary positions. General government investments: 1.9 billion. 1.9 billion, that's a lot of money! I'd say on this next subject, if I could answer you, we're all Tartians today. If you say this 4 million is kind of pointless, I'm sorry, it's 4,000 meters more than 0 meters. You say some kind of intersection in the city of Tartu. Well, a good co-worker sitting next to you is a former mayor of Tartu. We have always talked about the fact that the Tartu highway does not have to go from Tallinn to Tartu, but also from Tartu to Tallinn. I believe that Mr Kruuse agrees with me that we must also start coming to Tallinn from Tartu. You're upset with the people of Tartu!? For the first time, we show that we also come from that side to the so-called 'Mäo knot', meet in the middle and are good. Now, you say you're taking out a loan. Yeah, of course we're taking out a loan. You know very well, Mr Sõerd, what is the second chance? The other option is that I call on you to help, and we, like crocodiles, start cutting the budget. But behind this budget, you know, Estonia's villages, Estonian economy, Estonian teachers, Estonia's internal security. The same helicopters you're upset about, too, are behind the budget. We've got three PBA helicopters, they've got to be given more capabilities, be they anti-icing devices, be they the equipment of night-dark flying cameras. Don't be mad about it! In conclusion, we still have to look at the budget as a whole. There is a taxpayer's budget, a budget for the European Union from 2021 to 2027 and a re-launch fund. The budget picture must always be looked at as a whole, and I have learned it from you, Mr Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U44	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U45	Next thing you know, Mart's gonna ask for the Gridship, and he's gonna be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Minister Taavi Aas lifted the special flight restrictions in mid-September. Among other things, he was concerned with the end of the charter ban on flights to third countries, which is due, after all, to the fact that you needed to go to Sweden on a private plane to see a movie. In my question, and in your answer, I do not want to focus on the feasibility of this visit, but on the tourism companies who thought that the restrictions had disappeared and were going to sell trips outside the European Union. At the same time, at the beginning of October, or ten days later, these restrictions were re-established and resulted in significant losses for tourism companies. Taavi Aas has said that yes, it was only for your sake, and in essence travel companies should still use common sense and doubt about the government's decision, and should not be involved in their main work, i.e. the sale of trips, even if they have asked the Ministry for clarification of the disappearance of restrictions and have received confirmation that they have not. Yes, we know here that every word and action of yours must be questioned, but basically your minister has said that entrepreneurs and the people of our country must do it. My question is this: do you not think that the government, led by Minister Asa, has behaved very uglylyly towards our tourist operators, and that, regardless of whether the nonsense or negligence on the part of the government was caused to the tourist operators in an already difficult time? Not even excused. Do you not think that the government here, or at least the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, should take political responsibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U47	Thank you, Mr. Gridship. I see you're on fire. I've slept well tonight, too, so I think we're both on a good level. I understand you did not finish your question, you wanted to ask if the Minister should take political responsibility and resign. It's understandable what the Reform Party wants. I don't want Taavi Asa to resign. I think that Taavi Aas is a good minister, he does his job professionally, essentially, he has a good emotion, he knows the field. So if you ask me if I support the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Mr Aasa, the answer is: yes, I do. Let's go. You're saying I went to Sweden for an Estonian film, but let's not talk about it. No, we are. Yeah, I did. We went there with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and there were some other Estonian officials. We went to both Helsinki and Stockholm, and indeed, the subject was the same as the information that would be such a Discovery film. And, of course, it was our duty to care. I think if we hadn't been there, you'd be asking me today why you didn't. It was our duty of care: to make every effort to carry on with our partners, with whom we have a grave treaty since 1995, so that, in the light of this new information, the investigation can now proceed. Yes, in the light of this new information, it is indeed our desire to start research again, to do so in cooperation with Sweden and Finland, three countries together, of course, respecting those people who remained in the wet grave, respecting their loved ones who are alive today and acting under the 1995 Treaty of Cemetery. Yeah, that was really a goal. I'm not denying anything here. And [the aim was] to involve these organisations from the very beginning, to involve close organisations, to involve the press. You say that this is why there was a huge risk that the Prime Minister was in Finland and Sweden, and now all trips to Turkey and Egypt were sold out. First of all, point one, don't blame the authorities. Indeed, I understand that tourism companies were in contact with the Estonian authorities and were told that today this decision is the case and that discussions are continuing in the Government of the Republic. They were told that clearly. At that point, I didn't say anywhere that now we're opening all charter flights all over the world. I will tell you honestly that at the table of the government today we are working almost daily, once again on a daily basis, with the COVID-19, working with professors, scientific councils, doctors-doctors, I am very grateful to them for their cooperation in order to ensure that Estonia's infection is as low as possible. Now, we have made a specific decision at government level and we support the proposal of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications not to restrict chartering between Estonia, the European Union, the European Economic Area, the Swiss Confederation, the Member States of the Schengen Convention, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Principality of Andorra, the Principality of Monaco, the Principality of San Marino and the Vatican City State and the countries on the European Union's common list. This is a very concrete proposal. I have also met representatives of the Union and said that this is today's game plan to be followed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U48	Mart Networker, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U49	Thank you. Prime Minister! Of course I'm on fire, I have a squirrel in me. And even though you and the Reform Party are really mad today, there was a squirrel in you on Monday, so it's gonna be working. But now to the contents. I didn't want to talk about Estonia because, of course, this flight might have been justified. However, what I want to say is that it would probably have been possible to make this decision in such a way that the Prime Minister is flying and that he is flying for a certain reason and that there is a clear message that it is only one flight and that it does not concern others. Perhaps the problem is that, at political level, it has not been said to the operators that the real reason for the decision has been this, do not take this into account, we still have the virus, we still have the crisis and do not continue our work on this. They've been told there are no restrictions, keep moving. My question continues to be this: would you at least apologise to those companies that have suffered damage because the government has partially failed to do its job, giving mixed messages? Are you going to pay them any compensation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U50	Thank you. I'll be honest with you, I can't accept it in any way. We had a conversation with the chairman of your party at the beginning of Question Time, and I said everything for change. I said that about disparaging the business and economic environment. What I think is that you are now bringing the ferry Estonia into this political struggle, I don't think it's a very good tone. Not at all, Mr. Gridship! I don't think it's a good tone at all. As far as these direct flights are concerned, yes, professionally, these direct flights sometimes have to be made, both to Helsinki and Stockholm and sometimes to Brussels. So that's what we have to take into account, this job comes with it. That's right. You're saying there were some signals at political level. No signal has been given, at least I am not, that now all charter flights are open. No such signals have ever been given. Now, that's your... Marko Mihkelson! The fact that you show with your hand that the Prime Minister has gone crazy or crazy is not very polite. I understand it stays out of the camera, and you can do a few hand movements, but I wouldn't do that to you. I'm very respectful of you, but please feel the same way about your co-workers. Now this, Mr. Networker, what you said, and I'm now a little ironic, you said I had a squirrel in me on Monday. Well, I don't know, I'll be honest with you, don't trick me into attracting me to the Reform Party. I'm not coming, I'm not coming, so don't give me that hope! But sometimes I feel like this situation is like being a squirrel on a bike, all the time like a squirrel on a bike, it goes here. In conclusion, what I want to say is that if you ask whether or not to apologize to someone, then forgive me, the government must act. We have done as much as we can for the tourism sector today. We are working for the tourism sector today, tomorrow and beyond, we are doing as much as we can. We have stated specific messages that please do not leave Estonia during school break, rest in Estonia. This is also important for the Estonian tourism sector. We have helped [tourism sector]. You've just upset us that we're giving big loans to entrepreneurs. But what exactly is Tallink? It's not a cleaning company, it's a tourist sector. We have supported this sector so that they do not sink, precisely because they have been hit hard. Half an hour ago, you punished us and said you couldn't support anyone, and then you'd say why you didn't support them. You jump up and down. I don't think so either. Of course, the tourism sector has been hit. I think the tourism sector in Tallinn, the tourism sector in the Old Town, has been hit very strongly. Of course, this sector must be supported on a daily basis, and that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U51	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You have proven many times today that you do not hear what is being said in this Chamber, nor do you listen to the experts around you. You indicated that we would change everything into change. However, Mailis Reps here at your recent event indicated that their values are closer to the values of the EKRE than the values of the Reform Party, with the latter it is worse to make a coalition. So this government is proof of who changed what into change. You accused us of attacking Teder. No, we didn't attack him, we attacked the Central Party. Because the act that looks like a decision looks like one in a mob movie where half the money is paid before the transaction and half after the transaction. It has very similar features of power trading. That is the question, and that is why the press has taken it up. It is not a question of attacking an entrepreneur, of communicating and of knowing the concerns of entrepreneurs. You tried to make an impression and compare Porto Franco to Tallink. These are completely unparalleled units. Absolutely incomparable! It was not because Tallink was supported that the real estate companies attacked or showed their resentment. Tallink has a completely different effect than any particular real estate project in any corner of Estonia. It is therefore unreasonable to compare them. And when the honourable colleague Mart Võrguship indicated that a special decision was made to allow the Prime Minister to fly to see a movie, the show about this disaster in Estonia was made by you. Because it was signaling that it was possible to fly at one point. And as far as I know, experts have publicly stated that banning direct flights is unreasonable. This is also unreasonable because when people fly to Estonia through two or three airports, the health risk is often higher.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U53	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U54	The question is this: do you hear us, listen and then answer us, or do you have the answers ready before you listen to the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U55	Thank you. No, I listen and I hear you all the time, and I think it's very necessary. That's how much I can dim my answers when you give me the subject, and I thank you for that! Some members of the Riigikogu are more general, some are very specific. When a specific subject is given, it is easier to answer. For example, I would like to acknowledge Signe Kivi, [the topic is] immediately understandable He could also say "Budget policy" here, and it would be quite difficult for me to actually come before you with this answer, to know all the numbers by heart. Thank you for that! I will prepare the answer on the basis of how the question has been asked. But first, I didn't go there to watch a movie, there was no movie. There was a communication with Swedish and Finnish colleagues on various topics, but one of the main topics was really immediately unveiling Discovery film. At that point, I hadn't seen it. Now, you're saying direct flights are safer than connecting flights. Yeah, I agree with that. I agree that direct flights are safer than connecting flights, I will not argue with that. But I don't think that means we should be doing direct flights all over the place today. We should always know what the infection rates in these countries are. And let's be honest, the statistics are very different. In general, I think that the messages we have issued about the corona virus this week are very specific. One thing is, let's not lose our guard. The other one is, please, we're wearing a mask. I see that many of you are wearing a mask, and I also try to wear a mask in crowded places. I think that the mask should be the kind of thing [which we propose when we are in] in crowded places: shopping centres, public transport, etc. And the third message is that during this school vacation we are resting in Estonia. This is directly the principle that we should not again bring this infection in from countries where the number of infections is higher. And, in general terms, with regard to the whole COVID-19, I do think that both the people of Estonia and the economy, when I think about what is my wish or principle, appreciate and respect the fact that we can hold on to this virus, I cannot say that this virus is as much as possible controlled in Estonia. This is something that needs to be worked on all the time and, of course, it is the point of balance [of finding], because the virus can be kept under very strong control and, as a result, completely paralyzed by the economy. A balance must be found. I would like to say here in front of you the words of recognition to both the Health Board and the Police and Border Guard Board, who, in my opinion, have managed to limit the number of sick and close contacts as far as possible, to learn as much as possible. And thank you also to the people who have told us where they have been and whom they have met. This has been a very important key to victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U56	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U57	The next question is No 6, posed by Helmen Kütt and answered by Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U58	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Minister of Justice! I am delighted to be the savior of your day today, at least two hours in the sense of Question Time, without saying a word, it would have been really sad. I suppose I can also promise that every time you're in Question Time, I'm going to touch on the subject of a living. As such a serious man, you will have a good opportunity to talk about the state of play and how, after research and review, it is really a very thorough overview of the topic of living that is planned to move forward. In fact, the health crisis has become a recession, a loss of jobs has started, and this is a problem for both the payers of the livelihood and the recipients of the livelihood. Perhaps you will give a small overview of what has been achieved last time on the subject of the subject of subsistence covered by Question Time, you said that there are studies. What has been done? When can you expect a bill on how maintenance is calculated?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U59	Thank you, good Helmen! Thank you so much for feeling sorry for me. Now I can stretch my legs, stand up and give my opinion a little bit. As regards the draft maintenance plan, we did indeed say last time that the study was commissioned and submitted to the Ministry of Justice, which has also been publicly presented. It is also known that this study suggested two options, one a comparative analysis and the other a standard budget analysis. In both cases, the proposed amount still proved to be significantly lower than today's law provides for half a month's salary, i.e. the minimum monthly wage set by the government, which is EUR 292 today. But these proposed amounts, according to a comparative analysis, would be EUR 194 per parent and EUR 172 for the standard budget. So there's a big difference. The bill has moved forward in terms of strength and strength. It has certainly been affected, as you have pointed out, by the same epidemic, by dealing with corona issues. Similarly, the fact that people were known to be away from their main job for a long time did telework. Perhaps this kind of direct negotiation and immediate meetings-meetings were, as a result, somewhat suppressed. But the job didn't stop, like I said. This draft is currently being drafted and, according to the work plan, we have planned to send it to the coordination round in October this year. The current figures also definitely allow this, so at the end of this month, or October, we will be able to send this draft to ministries and interest groups in a coordination circle. So after that, you can see how many concrete proposals are made and what problems are highlighted, how quickly it is possible to move to the Government of the Republic and from there to the Riigikogu. This will become clear in the future once the feedback has been received. But yes, so much I can promise that at the end of October, this bill from the Ministry of Justice will go to coordination.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U60	Helmen Hunter, a question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U61	Thank you very much. Thank you also very much to the Minister for this review. It is good to know how things are moving forward, and I very much hope that they will move forward, however, in cooperation with stakeholders, because there are many people to consult and discuss on this issue. Now the question. When a package of measures was adopted concerning the progress of the spring corona virus, this package did not contain any measures aimed at child poverty, namely those who had been granted a livelihood, but they did not receive it. There was no such measure that would have facilitated or helped these families in a situation where the payer of the maintenance would become unemployed, he would not be able to pay. Did you put something like this on the current budget, or was it not on the table at all? In fact, in the Committee on Social Affairs, we sometimes find it a little difficult to understand this situation, because children are actually in the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs, also in the administration of the Minister for Population, but they are in the administration of the Ministry of Justice in relation to maintenance. I asked the Minister for Social Affairs, he does not deal with this issue, because the appointment of a living, the payment and the whole of it still belong directly to your administration. Did you make some kind of request to ease the poverty of these families here, precisely those children for whom maintenance and maintenance support have ended, but who really can't get that living? You need food and clothes every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U62	Thank you for your question. Well, it's obvious that when the maintenance has ended because the payer of the maintenance has lost his job, he doesn't have an income to pay for a living, it's just as the proverb says: where there's nothing to take, there's no death. This is the only way to compensate for this by introducing an additional measure to the so-called maintenance aid system. As is known, maintenance aid is intended for cases where maintenance is not paid. And now that you have said that the Minister of Social Affairs is not dealing with this issue, but I can say again that the Minister of Justice is not involved in the payment of maintenance aid; it is a matter of the administration of the Ministry of the Interior. I don't want to point my finger at anyone here, but this pandemic, the corona crisis, it's got us all worked out. When we talk about these cluster billings, the Ministry of Justice didn't make any changes to the maintenance system, because today it exists. In this respect, discussions, disputes are up, and the maintenance system still needs to follow the usual path: to develop the draft and to go to the coordination circle with it. As far as maintenance support is concerned, I admit that there may be a possibility to show some flexibility, but we also know that maintenance aid is still significantly lower than maintenance or at least today's statutory maintenance, almost three times less than that, it is 100 euros per month, if I remember correctly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U63	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U64	Thank you. Good Minister of Justice! You also mentioned the Minister of the Interior in your reply. In yesterday's "Seven News," the Minister of the Interior made very serious accusations about the Estonian judicial system and also about you. Just in case, I read it to refresh memory: "What we see now in the Estonian courts does not create trust. We see the activism of judges and it starts not only with judges, but it also starts with the prosecutor's office, the whole of our justice mafia, if you could say so. In fact, the ordinary citizen has nothing to do, because the ordinary citizen is not rich enough to have an army of lawyers who are able to challenge even the most biased judgment in Estonian courts. The whole system is rotten. I know the Minister of Justice says the Minister of the Interior isn't telling the truth, the Minister of the Interior is wrong, the Minister of the Interior is exaggerating. But actually, that's the way it is. " How about he's lying or you're lying? Or what are you doing? If you disagree with these vicious accusations, what will you do to clear the Estonian judicial system of these vicious accusations?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U65	Thank you. Let me remind you that the subject of the question was "Residence related." Ministers are always entitled to refuse to respond if the matter does not concern the subject, but they always have the opportunity to respond kindly to the questioner. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U66	Yeah, I'm gonna take this last chance. I reaffirm what I have repeatedly confirmed: Estonia is the rule of law. The Estonian justice system relies solely on the law in its activities; it is independent of any political influence. Similarly, the Estonian judicial system is independent in its decisions. I have not noticed this anywhere, nor have any studies, international or national, revealed any risk that our judicial system would in any way be affected by the political decision-making process, to which we are indirectly trying to refer. I can assure you that the Minister of the Interior has, perhaps because of misinformation or because of the information he owns, really exaggerated a bit and went towards his opinion, which I cannot support. Once again, I believe that the Estonian judicial system, the justice system, is independent. Work is based on the Estonian Constitution and other laws. I also tell the people of Estonia that you trust our justice and judicial system, do not believe such, how to say, biased information.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U67	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U68	The next question is number 7. This will be presented by Maris Lauri and will be answered by the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U69	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Very many countries have seen foreign students as one of the ways to attract smart young people who stay in the country for science after graduation, maybe work there, or at least create very good links with the student's home country, or maybe help build such links. Nor can we forget that, for example, in the case of Estonia, foreign students have helped to alleviate the fact that our domestic students have been reduced and to ensure a higher teaching burden for lecturers. I understand that the government has decided that foreign students in Estonian universities will surely have to pay their own tuition fees in the future. This step does not support the study of young people from abroad in Estonia. My question is this: will it continue to be the case that the Minister of the Interior says how education, including higher education, should work and whether or not foreign students are accepted?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U70	Thank you for your excellent question about our foreign students. In the first three minutes, I would say more than that, indeed, I absolutely agree with you that if Estonia's higher education policy vigorously took the direction that higher education must be of high quality, then it immediately meant that higher education must be international in parallel. We have repeatedly reviewed and improved the internationalisation strategy. Why? It has to be said that this has been done because our higher education institutions, especially the large public universities and a couple of private universities, have come into play here with such a strong international attractiveness for students that we have always raised these levels of ambition. Estonia is a clearly selling country in terms of export of education in terms of the quality of its education. I would like to refute the claim that internationalisation has been abandoned. On the contrary, we have around 4 million euros in the budget to strengthen internationalisation and introduce Estonia's export article, education, also outside. The reasons why this is needed are the fact that Estonian education is a quality mark, it is also a sign for the economy, of course there will be funds for the Estonian economy, and thirdly, it is very important that it compensates for our shortcomings in many areas. Perhaps this has not been noticed very much, but let us take, for example, a number of technological areas, such as the paper industry or some other very specific technology, where the greatest moment of crisis was survived because English-language curricula and foreign students came. So this is one side. Now, second of all, does the Homeland Department influence? Yes, he will, but only the part of foreign students involved in third countries and residence permits. And, of course, this initiative was not just about the actions of the last few months. The members of the Riigikogu, who do a lot of work on security issues, know that we have been at risk for a small proportion of foreign students, this affects a very small part of the total number of foreign students, when attention has been paid to the security of the state and asked whether they really come to Estonia to study in real terms. These are the moments from which the Ministry of the Interior has intervened in this area. When we look at how this draft has developed, I assure you that, with regard to foreign students, this draft has clearly developed with the involvement of specialists in the field of education and science.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U71	Maris Lauri, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U72	Thank you. For me, however, the problem is that I do not understand why such a rather cardinal decision has been made that foreign students should, moreover, have to pay tuition fees from third countries. I don't understand it. This is an important change, and it affects not only the attractiveness of Estonia and higher education, but also the livelihood and decision-making opportunities of universities. As a result of your answer, I would still like to understand whether you really consider it right that, on the basis of individual bad examples, figuratively speaking, everyone else is punished or so cardinal and so fundamental decisions are made. The introduction of tuition fees may also mean that we will have to reduce students, outsiders, much, which also makes it difficult for universities to cope, not to mention other influences. After all, this may lead to the closing of different curricula and the salary level of teachers, which is already extremely modest, is getting even worse. Here goes the ball. It still seems to me that this problem, yes, certainly the problems of foreign students have not been approached comprehensively and with full impact. So why are you still doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U73	Thank you. First of all, how fundamental he is or isn't. The law is still made by the Riigikogu, so here you can discuss what are security aspects and what are content aspects. First of all, we will talk only about foreign students on this draft, but there are also a number of other nuances that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will certainly consider very seriously. In the case of foreign students, the main change you have introduced is tuition fees. But before that, you could say, the main change is that you can take your family with you, but this family must be on a separate visa regime, whether they are coming to study or whether they have some kind of income, i.e. they are here on the basis of a separate residence permit application. In [other cases], this so-called family right of association arises in the second year. I may not be able to introduce all these nuances here, but there were quite serious arguments as to why such a proposal came from the Ministry of the Interior and, after very thorough consideration, the education sector agreed. Now for tuition. The part of the tuition fee, i.e. the fact that we are currently excluding third countries from the study programme in English, should be actually paid, is also included as a signal in the latest management contracts concluded with universities. The reason why such a signal was given was to say very clearly to universities that the provision of education in English or the export of education should bring economic benefits. The prerequisite for this is that the Estonian language is also taught there, but it must not come at the expense of the existing higher education resource today. Expand, if you want, act, sell yourself, there's extra resources. But don't do this on the account of the students who are studying today. This was the [agreement] and the decision to negotiate with universities was made that it could only be a flexible [solution], it could be a direction that would be looked at in stages and with the exception of any possible exceptions. Now, certain exceptions are included in the draft, there are agreements with the OECD, the European Union, Erasmus as a whole, exchange students, universities. But there has already been a very clear wish from the University of Tartu that there are certain groups in which they would certainly like to make exceptions, and probably here in the Riigikogu proceedings we will also look at this issue. But most students studying in English-language curricula pay tuition fees. So it concerns certain parts and certain exceptions which do not concern the European Union or the OECD, third countries. The proportion of students who do not pay tuition fees today is very, very low and we need to look at the exceptions that are still needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U74	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U75	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I may not be worried at first glance about the subject of tuition fees, but about another issue that bothers me more and more, that is the attitude of the government, particularly the attitude of one party, the EKRE, which concerns foreigners as a whole. Now the various methods have tried to put obstacles on the road, and today you have also highlighted the security risk. When I asked them about their potential families coming here, I have to admit I didn't get those numbers in hundreds, I got less than ten. This shows that it is quite difficult to treat them as a security risk. Today, I think one of the newspapers was a good example of how a foreign student had come to study in Estonia, graduated from school here, made a business and started taking animal fodder, or dried hay, abroad. There is enough grassland in Estonia, as you know, and with its activities it provides work and also deserves the income of our other potential employers. I cannot understand why such a general attitude has been taken that when a foreigner arrives in Estonia at the end of the megacademy, he must be driven out of here as soon as possible, not such a attitude as to allow him to apply what he has learned for the benefit of our economy, to allow him to learn the language, etc. Please tell me why you support this attitude. You were quite powerful in the spring or early summer when we heard about this possible amendment to the Aliens Act, which partly concerns students.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U76	Thank you. First of all, I assure you that these examples, as you may now have from the press, are indeed not they. We have also discussed this with universities in the Ministry of Education and Research, and today we are meeting with the Rectors. There is certainly also the topic on the table how we can introduce more to society how much we have actually won from foreign students, foreign lecturers and foreign scientists. I reiterate that a clear majority of our foreign students and, in particular, foreign scientists, are still coming from the European Union today. The largest share comes from Finland at all. There will also be EFTA States which, by way of derogation from this law, have been identified so that restrictions on foreign students, certain things, do not extend to them. Now, third countries alone, too, are the majority of those countries that have themselves been destination countries in the case of exports of education in our country. India, for example, has achieved a situation in IT where we are, first, very popular and, second, there is a competition to come to Estonia to study IT, significant. Indeed, there is a very good selection of [students] at quality level. So no, we haven't given up [internationalization]. On the contrary, we have been discussing in the last few weeks, in fact from summer onwards, the time will be very quickly, very seriously, what other exporting countries there are. A number of major partners from Latin America, or the OECD, have come to the table, where technology, including ICT, is once again at the forefront. But there have also been issues that are very important to us, for example: wood technology, the enhancement of mineral resources and, of course, food security. In these areas, we are going more forcefully to certain target countries. Yes, as Maris Lauri rightly said, we are talking about a very small exception, a very small security risk. I would point out that not tens of thousands or a few thousand, but we are talking about a very small niche. And perhaps the fact that the security issue was brought to the table at one point is very correct, that is the task of our security authorities. But yes, we must not lose all the positive image of the internationalisation of higher education, which has saved us from so many bottlenecks and created a positive image for Estonia. We certainly must not lose this, in this respect I am relentless. Now for the tuition subject. I'm going to go over it again, maybe it got too fast first. From there are today, by way of exception, all doctoral students, all scientists. By way of exception, there are teachers outside. By way of exception, all EU and OECD countries are outside. We need to examine separately what exceptions we still need, because most of us who come here today will pay tuition anyway. We need to look at what exceptions we still need in this law so that we do not narrow down the qualitative development that we need.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U77	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U78	The next question will be asked by Jaak Juske and will be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U79	Dear Chairman, Prime Minister! Yesterday it became clear that Latvia will make the budget for next year with a very deep minus. At the same time, money is found in Latvia to raise teachers' salaries. However, your government gave our teachers a very nice gift on teacher's day, stating that the salaries of teachers in Estonia have been frozen for the next four years. You can understand the freezing of teachers' salaries for next year, because we are really in a crisis, but for four years when the crisis is over, it is completely incomprehensible. Your step to freeze teachers' salaries clearly shows that today's government does not value teachers' work. Why doesn't your government value the work of teachers by freezing the salaries of teachers for four years? Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U80	Thank you, good questioner! Dear Jaak Juske! I am not only addressing you as a member of the Riigikogu, but I know that you are also a teacher. I want to say that you can safely say to your colleagues and, more generally, to the entire faculty that the social guarantees for teachers, their salaries and working conditions in the broadest sense are certainly very strong, a clear priority for me personally and for the previous government, the current government and today's Minister for Education and Research. This claim or accusation that it is not important to us is not true. It's important to us. Now, what you're saying is that next year, the payroll, including the teachers' payroll, will be frozen. It's true. The state has said that next year we will not see an increase in the payroll. This is because of the economic crisis we are in today. We are in a very serious economic crisis today; we are also in a health crisis. We are actually in a crisis where forecasting is very complex. I certainly promise you, Mr Juske, that in April 2021, when we are making a country's budget strategy for the next four years, the rise in the salaries of teachers will be clearly on the table. I cannot tell you today what the spring forecast is going to be, but I believe that we are all working to keep the spread of the virus as low as possible so that we can stimulate the economy again. For me, the increase in teachers' salaries has always been important, as has internal security, with police and rescue inside. For me, it has always been important that [wages] also be raised by cultural workers and social welfare. And actually, we've moved in that direction. Now, the accusation that we haven't prioritised teachers in any way. I'll bring the numbers in. We can safely say that the wage growth of Estonian teachers has been one of the fastest among OECD countries in recent years. Within five years, the minimum wage for teachers in general education schools has increased by 415 euros. For example, in 2015, the minimum wage for teachers was EUR 900, whereas in 2020 it was EUR 1315. I will be honest with you that in 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020 it has always been a priority for me to be able to raise the minimum wage for teachers. In comparison, the average wage growth of teachers in general education schools, for example, has been impressive since 2012, from EUR 814 in 2012 to EUR 1210 in 2016 and EUR 1540 in 2021.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U81	Thank you. Jaak Juske, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Prime Minister! Our southern neighbours are also experiencing a very deep crisis, while the Latvian state will find additional resources to raise teachers' salaries next year. However, I do agree that the previous government you led, with the participation of the Social Democrats, really raised the teachers' minimum wage at a very rapid pace, so that the teachers' minimum wage reached the average wage in our country for a moment. Now, today's government, the leader of which you are also, has been clearly holding back the rise in the teachers' minimum wage even before the crisis began. And now the decision has come that wages have been frozen for four years at all. At the same time, we know very well the state of the Estonian school, and a very large number of teachers will retire in the coming years. There is already a very serious teacher crisis in many schools all over Estonia. Please explain to the Estonian people how freezing teachers' salaries will help to alleviate this crisis, the shortage of teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U83	Thank you. No, I'm not cheap with honours either, the Social Democrats were really in the previous government. Yes, you were, and you made those decisions together. But the current government has also raised teachers' salaries. You are always producing Latvian for comparison. But I think, Mr. Juske, in that case, the truth must be told in its entirety. The number of Latvian and Estonian residents must be compared, the economy of Latvia and Estonia must be compared, the minimum wage rates for Latvian and Estonian teachers must be compared and the average wage for Latvian and Estonian teachers must be compared. I believe you have these numbers. As of today, as I said, the salary of Estonian teachers has risen considerably to 1315 euros in 2020. The average wage for teachers is 1540 euros. Yes, I agree that the average wage for teachers, which represents 108% of the national average wage, is not yet what we have wanted. After all, the objective has been at least 120% for the various political forces, and we need to move forward in this direction. But I think the increase in teachers' pay has been pretty good in the last three or four years. You're comparing us to Latvia. If I have the right information, the minimum wage for Latvian teachers should be EUR 790, we have EUR 1315. We have to compare everything. But it's not an accusation or a disparage towards Latvia, you bring it to Latvia all the time. However, this does not mean that I am satisfied with [Estonia's current status]. Not satisfied. Once again, in the case of teachers' average wage, this direction of 120% of the average wage in Estonia is correct. I told you there were other areas where you should watch the raise at the same time. I think it automatically raises the question of what remuneration policy is in our higher education institutions. Yes, we have quite strongly raised the level of pay in schools, including upper secondary schools, but let us be honest that the level of pay at universities is a little out of the way. I am pleased that next year's budget, of course, is your decision, Mr. Juske, the budget is currently in the hands of the Riigikogu, with 7.8 million in order to increase the funding of higher education institutions. And I do not agree that, yes, you say, in fact, of course you are right, numerically, saying that teachers' salaries are not included. As a rule, teachers' salaries have always come to the table during the negotiations on the state budget or during the discussion on the state budget strategy. Today to predict beyond 2021 it is quite unpredictable, but I promise you that on 21 April this issue will be very much on the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U84	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U85	Thank you. Prime Minister! When the first news of next year's budget began to come, the press listened and noticed that teachers' salaries would be frozen for four years. As the last sentence of your previous reply, you said that if 2021 is reviewed again, the issue of teachers' salary increases will be very much on the table. A good colleague, Jaak Juske, mentioned here that it is quite difficult to ensure that teachers succeed. Although it has to be admitted that the number of students entering the teaching profession is in a small growth trend. But I ask this simple practical question: if this budget strategy is renegotiated next year, will there be consensus on this issue in the coalition and there will be no news again in the autumn about the 2022 budget that teachers' salaries will be frozen again? Say this, for example, in connection with the topic of coalition co-ordination.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U86	Mrs Urve Tiidus, thank you for this question. I'm gonna go back a few decades in this briefing when Aivar Sõerd upset that big loans and loan money were taken and asked how we could handle this. But I can't say that. There are, it seems, political forces in Estonia who say that perhaps there should be cuts. In this economic crisis, in order not to borrow, there is another way to cut it. There's no other way, it's very clear, black and white. I certainly am not the person, the member of the government, and the Prime Minister who is going to cut the pay of teachers. Point one. Now, your question was, of course, about another matter. Your question was whether in April 2021 I could look at you here, Urve Tiidus, and confirm that we are going to raise this salary. I believe that both you and I know that the country's budgetary strategy in April 2021 is actually very strongly based on what our spring economic forecast is going to be. I will stick to my answer to what I said to Mr Juske, that it is indeed my wish to look again at the rise in the salaries of teachers and to work to ensure that the raise comes. But I can't assure you today if no one has any waterproof prognosis. The forecasts of the Ministry of Finance and Eesti Pank vary in tens of times over three weeks. This situation is so difficult to predict. It seems to me that we all feel that we are in a major economic and health crisis, and it is not impossible at all that the crisis is getting worse. What matters is how strongly we make decisions today to save the economy, to stimulate it. I know that the Ministry of Education and Research and the minister there have worked with trade unions, including the EHL, and it has been agreed that we will come back to this topic in the 2021 spring session when we are going to make the country's budget strategy. I am absolutely certain that both Mailis Reps and I and the entire government These PISA tests, on the basis of which we say that we are powerful from where else they come from, if not through the Estonian teacher. Putting them on the payroll is of course important, but I say we also need to look at internal security, social welfare and culture. We've usually looked at them together, and I don't think it's bad. I am trying to do my best to really come to you in the spring of 2021 with good, positive news about the pay of teachers. This is clearly a priority and it is clearly important, but in the end, the economic forecast still sets the case. But I also say that if someone wants to go down the salaries of teachers, for example, in light of the economic forecast, I do not support it. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U87	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U88	We have very little time left. The next question is Signe Riisalo and she will be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, but please be brief.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U89	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Prime Minister! As Prime Minister, you represent the Government of the Republic, and my concern is, in fact, government communication. Communication is the foundation of everything. Whether he is timely, whether the messages are coherent, whether he is honest and whether he is factual is very important. In the early spring, I managed to be an alternate in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the representatives of the State Chancellery also spoke of communication during the crisis, of these weaknesses, not that it was all bad, but that there were misconceptions. Today we have heard about the communication of members of the government regarding the condemnation of the judicial system or the law enforcement system, and here, Mardi had a question about air services. My question is that a few weeks ago, the Estonian media surprised the whole society, unfortunately, I call it the ferry with the news from Estonia. It wasn't news to the government. Could it have been prevented by good communication? What did you do to prevent [this situation] and so that all these different opinions, wall-to-wall conspiracy theories to this end would not have disturbed our society in this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U90	Thank you! I agree that communication is not just important, but vital and very important. And I also agree that Estonian journalism, both public and private media, has made a very good contribution to communication if you take this spring outbreak. In order not to leave any questions in the air, I say that I trust the Estonian law enforcement system and the judicial system. And by the way, I've always said that, both in opposition stand and in coalition stand. I have not changed my answers here according to the colour of the flag of the opposition or coalition. Now, yes, what you are asking is really a very difficult issue for our country, for our people, in our recent history, in our past. A lot of people, as I said before, left their lives in a wet grave. This concerns families, families and families of very many Estonian people. There was a reason for communication. We didn't go to Helsinki or Stockholm for any pleasure trip. After all, there was a reason to pass on information, to exchange information, which was very important at the time, and to say that Estonia, as the flagship of Estonia, wishes to carry out a new technical investigation based on new information or based on new information. And that's what we've done. Our communication has been very specific in this sense since the beginning that we have said that yes, we consider it important to conduct an investigation. We consider it important to find out the truth. We consider it important at an early stage to involve all countries there are currently three countries: Finland, Sweden and Estonia, but why not other organisations that are drowning, so that they are immediately involved in the investigation. We have made it clear that we consider it important to include the press in this issue, so that what is happening is transparent. We have also said immediately that this investigation cannot be carried out only on the ground, but also on the sea and on the seabed, examining both the seabed and the wreck of the ferry Estonia, building on the new Discovery information. So in the case of this communication, honourable Member of the Riigikogu Signe Riisalo, I very much agree that every word and every letter can again open some kind of wound or give the wrong signal. It must be very respectful, very respectful, and also very balanced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U91	Thank you. Unfortunately, we will not be able to discuss this very important issue any further. I thank the questioners, thank the respondents, and Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U92	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, We will begin the 4th working week session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. To begin with, it is possible for members of the Riigikogu to hand over drafts and questions. The representative of the Government of the Republic, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U93	Honourable Vice President! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic will present today 12 draft decisions of the Riigikogu. First, the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian state during the French military operation in Barkhane Mali. Secondly, the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian state on the UN peacekeeping mission in Lebanon. Thirdly, the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali. Fourthly, the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria. Fifthly, the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international military operation Inherent Resolve. Sixthly, the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the formation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. Seventhly, the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State by contributing to it for the first time in an international military operation led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or the United Nations. Eighthly, the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian State on the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation mission in Iraq. Ninthly, the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state as part of the United Kingdom Joint Expedition Army. Tenth, extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the International Maritime Security Coalition operation Sentinel. By the eleventh, the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the training and counselling mission in Afghanistan. And by the twelfth, the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state on the European Union military mission EUNAVFOR Med/Irin. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Defence Jüri Luik when dealing with all these 12 draft decisions of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U94	Thank you. There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. I have adopted 12 drafts on behalf of the Management Board and the Management Board of the Riigikogu processes them in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Attention! Messages. Today, at the end of the plenary session, there will be a meeting in this Chamber to set up the Hong Kong Support Group, convened by Tarmo Kruusimäe. Incoming check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U95	87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U96	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item on the agenda is the first reading of the 200 draft law amending the Notarial Law and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'd like the Minister of Justice, Raivo Aegis, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U97	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to introduce that the Government has submitted a draft for discussion to the Riigikogu, which makes changes in the field of several legal professions. The amendments concern notaries, bailiffs and lawyers. The draft is intended to amend a total of 13 laws, most of which will be amended in the Notarial Law, the Law on bailiffs and the Law on Legal Aid. The Bill also amends the Law on Bar Associations, the Law on Bar Associations, the Law on Courts, the Law on Amendment of Law and other Acts, the Land Register Act, the Law on Disciplinary Liability of Notary, the Law on Bankruptcy, the Patent Attorneys Act, the Law on Legal Aid, the Law on Proof, the Code of Enforcement Procedure, the Law on Translate and the Commercial Code. As you can see, a pretty voluminous bill. The adoption of the draft act requires a simple majority of the Riigikogu's votes. Most of the provisions of the law enter into force in general, but it is inevitable that some provisions will require a longer preparatory period, so that they will enter into force by 1 January 2021. Let's go to a more detailed presentation of the bill. The draft contains quite a variety of changes. First, an evaluation of the results of the competition for notary posts. According to the amendments, the ranking is always explained by: always, during the performance of the post by examination. This means that a candidate with the best test results will always win and be appointed at the time of the call. This ensures that candidates have a ranking of substance in each competition and always. Secondly, the organisation of the tasks of the notary examination committee and the competition committee. Under the current rules, the examination shall be passed by the examination committee. Sometimes, however, several years later, the competition committee organises the competition. According to the draft, the examination will be organised together with the competition for the post of notary, and it makes perfect sense that the same committee that organises the exam will also decide on the winner of the contest. Thirdly, continuing training for notaries, notaries candidates and notaries substitutes. The draft establishes clear bases for ensuring mandatory continuing training for notaries, notaries and notaries candidates and notaries alternates. Currently, the obligation to complete further training is regulated by the internal act of the Chamber of Notaries, but it is not possible in itself to introduce any leverage in the absence of further training. Fourth, notary candidates have already passed the notary exam. Under the current rules, the candidate service stops for up to 10 years after passing the notary examination. After that, the candidate service ends. In the last ten years, however, only a few notary posts have been held. Most notary candidates have continued to work in the notarial profession, and as they are interested in taking up the post of notary in the future and in replacing the notary and contributing to the notary, they must be given the opportunity to continue. Thus, the draft abolishes the time frame for the suspension of the candidate service and the termination of the candidate service on such grounds. Fifthly, a change in the penalty rate imposed on notaries and bailiffs. The purpose of the amendment is to amend the maximum level of fines imposed on notaries and bailiffs as disciplinary sanctions in such a way that the fine is more appropriate to the large difference in the income of the free legal professions, to have a general preventive effect on the representatives of the higher-income free legal professions and to the same extent across all free legal professions. The maximum fine to be imposed as a disciplinary sanction will be increased from EUR 6400 to EUR 16000 for notaries and bailiffs alike. Sixthly, the provisions on bailiffs' remuneration are changed. The rate of bailiff's fee will be increased in cases where the actual cost of the operation is clearly higher than the fee today. The rate of the bailiff's premium shall also be changed in cases where the bailiff carries out operations outside the office. Seventhly, the order for the membership fee of the Law Enforcement Tribunals and the Chamber of Bankruptcy Administrators shall be adjusted. The principle is that the membership fee must be set at a size which ensures the performance of the duties assigned to the Chamber by law and the achievement of the objectives set out in the Board's development plan. The membership fee rate is set by the Board of Appeal, which are all bailiffs and all insolvency practitioners. The current membership fee does not guarantee the performance of the functions of the Chamber or the achievement of its objectives. Unfortunately, the Council has not had the strength to reach an agreement to increase the membership fee, so it is necessary to give the Minister of Justice the right to set the rate of membership fee by ministerial regulation. The Minister may levy a membership fee of up to 5% on the activities of the bailiff or on the remuneration of the temporary administrator received in [bankruptcy proceedings] and on the remuneration of the insolvency practitioner. Eighth, requirements for the remuneration and determination of costs of state aid. The State Legal Aid Act adjusts the relevant provisions in such a way that lawyers' applications for remuneration are resolved regularly so that the payment of such remuneration does not accumulate in large, long-term proceedings. And last, ninth, the patent attorney's company's claim for participation will be changed. In the Patent Attorneys Act, there is a pending entry into force requirement that a member or shareholder of a patent attorney's company may only be a patent attorney. According to the European Commission, this amendment is contrary to the Services Directive. Therefore, in order to prevent Estonia from having an infringement procedure, it is necessary to eliminate the inconsistency with the Directive, which is why the provisions of the Patent Attorneys Act are not yet in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U98	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You said yourself that 13 laws would be amended here. If we look at this text of the law, we can see that most of the points actually concern the law of the bailiff. Why, then, is this bill called such a misleading title that, above all, there is a law amending the Notarial Law and other laws? Shouldn't the title mention the law of the bailiff or, in principle, make a new law when there are so many changes to the law of the bailiff?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U100	Thank you. Excellent question. I read out nine key points that carry such fundamental changes. Now, if I look at these points again, I can see that the points concerning the notarial law are one, two, three, four, five. Nine of the five are points concerning the Notarial Law, so most are points concerning the Notarial Law. And I suppose it's some kind of rule of law that the law that gets the most touched is put first on the list.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U101	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U102	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. One important change, a striking change, is an increase in the level of fines imposed on notaries and bailiffs. This maximum fine may be EUR 16000. Compared to the past, it's quite a multiple growth. And now that we are talking about the impact it has on the target groups, it may not be so negative for notaries, but, for example, raising bailiffs' rates will still fall to the debtors. Has this effect been taken into account in this bill that those who are in trouble anyway must continue to pay even more to the bailiff? What does this thing look like in real life?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U103	Thank you for your question. It was a question of increasing the level of disciplinary sanctions. No, it does not fall on the debtors, it still has to be paid by the bailiff from the proceeds he has earned through enforcement proceedings. It cannot add this to the disciplinary penalty for any breach of law in any of the enforcement proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U104	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U105	Thank you. I'm going to continue with this bailiff's law. I still disagree with [your answer]. When we look at this law, there are 26 points that change the law on bailiffs, and only 21 are those that amend the law on notaries. However, my question concerns the fact that it is known that when preparing the draft and during the round of coordination, the Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators tabled 18 amendments and most of them were not included in this draft law. The question leads to whether the law on bailiffs will be amended again if it has been signalled, and whether it would not have made sense to come up with a completely separate amendment to the law on bailiffs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U106	Thank you for your question. Yes, it is usually inevitable in legislation that different interest groups stand very strongly for their rights if any regulation is to be amended in relation to their activities. Well, that is probably why the bailiffs have tabled so many of these amendments here. After all, we also know through longer history that I myself remember when I was a member of the Legal Affairs Committee in the previous Riigikogu, that dealing with bailiffs and their problems was still such a very persistent and serious activity all the time. These problems do indeed continue, which must be resolved. But it is not always possible for the Ministry of Justice, which supervises and carries out lawmaking also directing the work of bailiffs, to take into account every wish they have expressed as wishes of their Chamber. But there is certainly an opportunity for all their wishes to be heard in the first and second reading of the draft, and perhaps some of these dreamers, to be heard by the Commission and then to decide what deserves to be satisfied and what does not deserve to be satisfied.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U107	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U108	Thank you. I ask, Minister, about the notaries. This explanatory memorandum explains very well what is being changed in the market for notaries. Currently, there are less than 90 notaries in Estonia. How do you think this bill or law, if adopted, will affect the market for notaries? In smaller places, do notary offices remain, or do they go further? Will competition improve or how about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U109	As far as notaries are concerned, I do not think that this law should in any way increase this competition or reduce the number of notaries. In fact, the income of notaries and the need for notaries is still very clear from many economic cyclical indicators. When the economy recovers, there will certainly be much more notarial transactions, and the need for notaries will be greater. When the economy cools, the various transactions that require notary confirmations are less, the income of notaries decreases. This is certainly also the result of processes in which the jobs of notaries [loss] or these offices may close their doors at some point. So here, however, the workload, need and income of notaries are very clearly linked primarily to the economy, not so much to the scope of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U110	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U111	Thank you. Good minister! I have such a question that, under the current rules, so , we are talking about the Notariat Act, that the exercise of the post is subject to competition and its conditions and procedures were determined by the Minister in charge of the field. There was a notarial decree for this, where the whole thing was brought up. Now this amendment has been made to insert § 71, which sets out the examination separately, and it is introduced here separately, as if by emphasising it or separating it from the regulation. Why did this exam need to be introduced into the law? What was the reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U112	Thank you for your question. What's the status today? The situation today is that if a person has passed a notary exam, this exam will survive. However, since it has been pointed out here that there has been no special movement among notaries in recent years, there has been a period of years in which new notaries were not needed at all, no new notary competitions have not been launched, it is actually those people who took their notary exam years ago, but at the same time they did not go as notaries, they were not working in the notary system, they were working outside the system, they are obvious that legislation has changed, new requirements, regulations have come up, and their competence and the timeliness of competences have clearly deteriorated. As rotation is not very tight, there are long time gaps, then the proposal to bring the competition and notary exam together is made for discussion with the Riigikogu. That if there is a competition, you must also take the notary exam, whether or not you have previously taken the exam. This ensures that the notaries who have participated in the competition are put to the fore with their knowledge, that the Commission can compare them and that the notary will be the winner of the competition with the best results. That's why these two things are tied up here now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U113	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. As you said, one law amends a series of laws. I see, among other things, that there is a plan to amend the Land Register Act. I recall that at the beginning of September, when the Chancellor of Justice went to give an overview of his activity report, I think he mentioned that we had one problem with the land register, which I myself have felt, in terms of the protection of personal data. We have a public record book, it's well-founded. But if, for example, a person now owns only one real estate object, which is, among other things, his or her place of residence, then this information can easily be removed from the public database. Are you aware of this problem, have you discussed it? Was this bill not intended to solve it, or do you see a problem in this at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U115	Yes, I am aware that it is actually possible to deduce the residence of a person from the land register, or at least from their data. Today, as far as I know, our Data Protection Inspectorate has not initiated any supervisory procedure in this regard. But I will clarify this and have you respond to the position of the Data Protection Inspectorate, because they are the institution responsible for assessing the protection of personal data and certainly the most competent one.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U116	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U117	Thank you very much. I'm gonna pick a little bit on the wording here to sort it out. I am once again at § 71, which has been tabled as an amendment, and this is what has been said here: 'Notary' we are not talking about a candidate now, but we are talking about a notary who wishes to apply for a competition in another region, but who does not pass the exam must pass an evaluation interview. I see. And the last sentence says this: if the notary fails to pass the exam and the subsequent assessment interview, he will be removed from office. This is where I read that basically we can have a notary who has not passed the exam and does not pass the exam, but participates in an evaluation interview where he is judged. On the basis of an evaluation interview, it is [decided] that it is eligible for notary status. That word "and" sometimes says that the option of compulsory retirement is only possible if both the exam and the rating round are not completed. Is it deliberately worded like this, or am I just wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U118	How? [[There's something in the hall that's going to be specified.]] Yeah, well, a notary working in that sense, he's not coming from outside the system to run, but he's running for work in another notary area. He or she must, in the same way, fulfil the same conditions as any candidate who goes to work in the area. It doesn't matter if he's a notary who's already working in another region and is running for another county or another region, or if he's coming from outside the system. In this sense, they have the same conditions and criteria for applying. I don't know if I've answered correctly now or if you understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U119	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I now request Mr Vilja Toomas, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U120	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the draft law amending the Notarial Law and other laws on 21 September inclusive. In addition to the members of the Commission and Commission officials, the Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg, Gunnar Vaikmaa, Head of the Department of Justice Administration Policy, and the advisers of the same service, Maret Saanküll, Helen Vahkal and Alar Must, were of course present at the debate on this point. Minister Raivo Aeg gave a brief overview of The Commission's discussion was relatively short, but the members of the Commission still had some questions. For example, Urve Tiidus asked how the effectiveness of notaries' activities was measured. Gunnar Vaikmaa replied that the Ministry of Justice has sufficient competence to supervise the activities of notaries and the Ministry of Justice directs a large number of resources to supervision. The effectiveness of the notary's work means that notaries can handle matters to a reasonable degree and notaries do not prefer things that bring money in more easily. Member of the Commission Heljo Pikhof asked whether a notary who wants to apply for a new notary position in another city would also have to take the notary exam again. And the answer was, of course, yes, as the Minister has explained to us here. When a competition for a vacant post has been announced, any notary who wants to apply for that post must still pass the notary examination. Vilja Thomas was interested in the reason why this law of notariat began to change in the first place. The answer was simple and short. The House of Notaries has wished for it itself, and, as the Minister explained, in the last ten years practically no notary competitions have been announced and conducted, and the situation and conditions have changed, perhaps the demands have changed. The House of Notaries has noticed this and expressed its wish that such changes could be introduced into the law. Kert Kingo asked how the notaries, who seem theoretically to be okay, are being monitored, but who are actually dealing with shadows. Minister Time replied that the notary must always make sure that the transactions are legitimate. If a notary knowingly cooperates with criminals, the situation must be dealt with in accordance with criminal law. Jaanus Karilaid asked about amendments to the State Legal Aid Act. Gunnar Vaikmaa replied that the purpose of the amendment of the State Legal Aid Act was to eliminate the concerns raised in practice with regard to the application of the provisions of the State Legal Aid Act on the determination of remuneration and costs and to ensure uniform application of the law. One amendment to the State Legal Aid Act is that in the future, the administrative court will decide on situations in which legal aid is requested by an administrative court outside legal proceedings. And the administrative court can deal with it according to the Code of Administrative Court Procedure, but no longer under the procedure laid down in the Code of Civil Procedure, as it has so far been. In addition, the State Legal Aid Act regulates the time when a lawyer will apply for a fee, which the Minister has also discussed here in greater detail. That is briefly all that concerns the Commission's debate. Now it's decisions. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 14 October, to propose that the first reading be closed and appointed rapporteur from Vilja Toomas, and to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 28 October. 4 p.m. All four decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U121	Thank you, esteemed entrepreneur... waitress! I'm sorry! Waiter. But the waitress can also be an entrepreneur. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft 200. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 28 October at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U122	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Copyright Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Raivo Aeg, Minister of Justice. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U123	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Copyright Act updates the so-called empty cassette charging system and transfers some of the functions of the Ministry of Justice in the field of copyright to the Patent Office. In short, the nature of the draft. The current Copyright Act allows audiovisual works such as films and sound recordings, such as music, to be copied without the consent of the author only for the personal needs of the user, but provided that the author, performer and producer of phonograms are guaranteed a fair remuneration for such copying of the work or phonogram. The fee shall be collected from the recording equipment and from the storage media most commonly used for copying the work. The current law says that 3% is collected from recording devices and 8% is collected from storage media. It is regulated by §27 (7) of the Act. Under current law, the list of recording equipment and storage media from which the fee for an empty cassette is collected is laid down by a regulation of the Government of the Republic. What is the problem with current law? Since 2004, the so-called empty cassette fee is collected so little that the costs associated with collecting the fee exceed the collected fee, i.e. the right holders do not actually receive the compensation provided for by the empty cassette fee. This profit or profit that is collected there is zero. This is due to the fact that the list of recording devices and media from which remuneration is collected, established by the Government of the Republic's Regulation, is so outdated and contains equipment and carriers that are no longer used to copy sound and audiovisual works today, they may not even exist anymore. The draft amends, first of all, the current system of payment of an empty cassette in such a way that the Government of the Republic is empowered by regulation to establish both the list of recording equipment and storage media from which the fee is collected and the amount of the fee. In other words, the list of devices and carriers and the fees will be introduced into a single piece of legislation. In doing so, the draft lays down the conditions which the Government of the Republic must take into account when establishing the amount of the remuneration and the list of storage devices and carriers. This change is due to the fact that consumption patterns, i.e. which devices and media are used to make copies of music or films, can change significantly in a short period of time. If both the list of recording equipment and storage media and the rates of charges are established by a regulation of the Government of the Republic, the so-called empty cassette fee system can be updated more effectively without any change to the law. It also makes it possible to ensure that fees are collected from equipment and data media that are actually used for copying and that rightholders receive a fair remuneration for making copies of their works. After the entry into force of this bill, the Government of the Republic decree establishes a new list of recording equipment and storage media from which the fee for an empty tape is collected, as well as the rates of fees. Secondly, the draft extends the right to payment of an empty cassette also to producers of the first recording of the film. Such an amendment is reflected in the fact that the restriction laid down in the Copyright Act, which allows the copying of audiovisual works for personal needs, also limits the exercise of the proprietary rights of producers of the first recording of the film and thus deprives them of some of their income. Thirdly, certain tasks of the Ministry of Justice in the field of copyright are transferred to the Patent Office. These tasks are: firstly, the supervision of the activities of collecting societies; secondly, the organisation of the work of the copyright committee; and thirdly, the mediation of information on the status of orphan works in Estonia. These are implementing tasks, for which we consider the most appropriate authority to be the Patent Office, which is already exercising the executive power in the area of industrial property law enforcement. To sum up, the draft aims to introduce a new system of remuneration for empty cassettes, allowing rightholders to receive fair compensation for copying their works for their personal needs, and to contribute to the design of the Patent Office's competence centre for intellectual property rights in the Republic of Estonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U124	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U125	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! There is no doubt that this is a very good bill. Since the Copyright Amendment Act is a rather voluminous law that covers a wide range of sub-sections, the part of private copying that we are dealing with today at first reading is quite varied. This is not the easiest law we have here in the Riigikogu to process. In the explanatory memorandum, however, there are tables on the comparison of European countries, we are talking about rates, and you have nicely broken down by country how much is paid per capita on average. According to the project proposed together with this bill, in Estonia, creative people will receive compensation of 0.68 euros per capita per year according to your price list. However, this figure is significantly higher in European countries, with an average of 1.55 euros per person per year, such as France, Germany and so on. I'm interested in how the Ministry has reached such a price estimate. Apart from consumer behavior and behavior patterns in our society, I ask for a simple mathematical formula, how did you get to 0.68 on this device tax, which is on average 1.3 euros per device? Is that...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U126	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U127	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U128	Ladies and gentlemen, let us try to fit the question into one minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U129	Thank you. The question is certainly very important and very detailed. Dear questioner, I must now admit my incompetence. I really did not participate myself in the development of this formula, there were ministerial specialists and stakeholders involved, and that is the close result of their agreement or agreement that has been achieved. I also admit that apart from this amount and the exact methodology of how it was achieved, the studies that have been carried out were taken into account, as well as the consumption patterns of people, to which you referred. You have said that we are rejecting them, but they cannot be excluded, because consumption patterns have changed very significantly, I believe, even in the last decade, precisely in the sense of how many copies of works are made and how much streaming is used, for example, where the payment of fees to authors is already foreseen on the basis of the same use. So taking all these components into account, this amount has been reached. Yes, I am also very familiar with the fact that authors' associations and umbrella organisations are not satisfied with the fact that this amount is currently the case. They want it to be bigger. This morning we also had a meeting with them in the Isamaa Group. We went over this issue again, and I explained to them that there is another interest group involved in this whole issue, namely equipment vendors and importers. Here, meaningful and understanding negotiations are needed so that there is a reasonable compromise between the two interest groups, and neither would feel that their interests have been completely ignored or trampled underfoot and that one party has been preferred. So it won't be easy. There will certainly be discussions and discussions here in the Committee on Culture quite long and meaningful. Good luck with that!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U130	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U131	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. My question may well go a little further than the subject of this bill. After all, recording devices and carriers are being used less and less, I myself have a whole drawer full of things at home that I will probably have nothing to do with. This means, however, that there will be an increase in the share of other resources, in particular the use of streaming platforms, which are often international, digital taxes and other things, and that our artists' incomes through them are said to be relatively modest or difficult to access. Has the Ministry dealt with these issues, and do you have any ideas? Maybe you can give me some kind of identity.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U132	Thank you for your question. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Estonia is very capable, as far as I am concerned, but our hands are short in this sense, that we really cannot start writing price lists to the service providers of international platforms or how much they should pay our artists who have given permission to upload their works. I know that these are not really high incomes and artists are not satisfied. But once again, we cannot solve such problems. Quite a number of platforms are not located in the territory of the European Union; many have been hosted either in the United States or elsewhere. Here, as usual, a common force could improve the situation. Perhaps the European Union, as a whole, is capable of applying and imposing rules on these platforms or service intermediaries. However, as practice shows, even countries that are considerably larger, more powerful and more capable than Estonia have unfortunately been in trouble on quite a number of occasions. So here to predict that there will be some kind of exponential change in the near future and that our artists will be getting a significantly higher return from the streaming platforms, I must honestly admit that I do not believe in that. Rather, at least this is how we try to help our authors and contribute to their activities, so that we generate revenue from the sale of storage devices and storage media. It is not a tax, is it not a tax, it is actually a payment of fair pay or fair income. And as I said, the current situation is that the fee is zero, i.e. the system actually works at a loss. The Ministry of Justice even pays compensation to the collector of the fee, I believe it was close to EUR 200000 last year, as losses have been made. It is estimated that this fee should now be EUR 900000 per year when the new system is implemented. So zero euros versus 900000 euros, there's still a pretty big difference. I've heard, yes, the other way around, that the amount is still too small. But better than nothing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U133	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U134	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You have already mentioned that the authors' spokespersons spoke of quite a number of concerns that they had, but I am interested, above all, in what they have pointed out. At the same time, perhaps it would add to the fact that it is the 21st century, where everything is developing so quickly, and if today we are writing down some equipment that will be taxed again, it seems that in a few years' time it should be changed again. Is there anything more practical, any other way to reward Estonian authors with dignity in other ways?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U135	Well, we also need to understand that this so-called empty cassette fee is not the only income that Estonian authors and artists can get their bread on the table. I think it's a percentage of even one of the lower fees. Mrs Purga may be able to say exactly here, she is a major specialist and expert in this field, but in fact, the fee is collected from concerts with public performances, as are any other performances, such as radio and television. In service establishments where radio is played in a corner or on a shelf, the same royalty must also be paid. So all these components still come together the main part of the authors' remuneration. The authors wanted this reward to be higher. That was their very strong desire and conviction. But the way it is now is that it is divided into two pieces of legislation: the list of equipment is established by a ministerial regulation, the fee is determined by law. In fact, the authors or the representatives of those who visited us in the group today also marked the hope that it could be regulated at the level of the law. They wanted there to be some kind of model list in the law, and then there would be points that somebody could supplement at some point, i.e. without the so-called law being opened and processed, these points would have to be improved somehow. We tried to explain to the authors that they had to realise, on the other hand, that this was not possible. The law still contains an exhaustive list. So that list of what's in the law, that's it. It can't be that there's an example list in the law, and then there's something else. That is why, in order for this matter to be operational and as flexible as possible, it is now proposed that the law lay down general frameworks, general principles, and a government regulation would be where there would be both components, i.e. a single piece of legislation would have both a list and rates of charges. You had a perfectly good example that in today's world, especially in information technology, progress is so rapid that perhaps in a few years' time there will be tools that we cannot even imagine today and which should be included in it. It would then be possible to do this quickly and, depending on the intensity of use, also to set charges. It was also said that we currently have maximum charges, but there could also be a minimum fee so that the government would not be able to set zero. At the same time, I see that some of these are given as examples. Well, this is a 'example list', which is included in this draft; it is not an act of the Government of the Republic, but here is, for example, an 'optical medium without storage', that is the definition. I can't even tell you what it is, but the price here is 0.03 euros. Well, that means that what you're going to be more at the minimum if it's already 0.03, that's 0.3 cents. This can be considered, we can say that this 0.3 eurocent is the minimum fee, but at the same time, for a laptop or tablet, it is proposed to be EUR 1.3. Well, what's the significance of that in the case of what's the minimum rate there? Specific amounts should still be established and, however, a system should be tried to introduce that allows for the necessary changes to be made at the optimum speed and in the most flexible manner possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U136	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U137	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I hope you will agree: we cannot say that the fees that are currently reaching the authors are excessive.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U138	Almost zero.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U139	Yeah, that's exactly what I wanted to say. Knowing that in many years this legitimate income has been lost, it is natural that this target group is also concerned about the future. One thing that you yourself have just mentioned is the same possible maximum and minimum rates. In fact, there is no minimum rate. Perhaps this is one of the places where this introduction of a minimum rate or the revision of fees gives minimal certainty, because we cannot rule out that there will be five years if the reward is something that does not suffer criticism, and we must go to court again. What do you think of that? What if it makes sense to do what they've proposed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U140	Thank you for your question. But I just explained that. The question is, what are we going to set the minimum minimum for -- whether we are going to define each storage device or medium separately -- what is the maximum or what is the minimum rate? What's the point of this government regulation in this case? That's where we should define it, is his phone, or is his computer, etc. I did not say before that, if so far the rate was legally set and it was set as a percentage of the price of a storage medium or a storage device in the case of a storage medium, 3%, and 8% in the case of a storage device, then the functionality of the particular item has now been taken into account. If we can buy a mobile or smart phone with a few hundred euros or a few thousand euros, but its functionality is still the same, well it is not justified that a device with other accessories at it, I don't know, put on Swarovski crystals or the like, should start to collect more empty cassettes or bind it to a percentage of the cost of the device, but should still be taxed on functionality. Once again, the meaning of the law must still be reflected in a government regulation. If the law states that there must be a fair remuneration for the copying of his works by the author, and this remuneration is collected through it, then the rule of the government must be based on the requirement of the law that the author of the work be guaranteed a fair remuneration.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U141	Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U142	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Estonia is the only association behind Estonian artists and authors and stands for Estonian culture, the Society of Estonian Authors. This draft law transfers the role of the Ministry of Justice in the field of copyright and related rights to the Patent Office. The patent office does not currently have a know-how for this purpose and there are no people. Three jobs have been planned at an annual cost of EUR 150000. My question: why shouldn't the Estonian Authors' Association continue to deal with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U143	Thank you for your question. The Patent Office is not intended to be entrusted with any function of the author associations; these same associations will continue to collect this remuneration. However, the Patent Office will be handed over the functions currently performed by the Ministry of Justice. I've already listed these. But once again, there are only three positions. Firstly, the national supervision of the activities of collecting societies is what is currently being carried out by the Ministry of Justice. Secondly, the organisation of the work of the Committee on Copyright. Third, the exchange of information on orphan work status in Estonia. These are the three functions currently performed by the Ministry of Justice, the State, and these functions are intended to be transferred to the authors' association. In a sense, they have at least close competence and understanding in this area, since the authors' association is still the body of the executive authority, particularly in the field of industrial property protection, industrial property can be regarded in a sense as intellectual property, because there are issues relating to property protection. So the organisations representing their authors, the umbrella organisations, will be taken away from nothing, they will have exactly the same rights and functions that they have had so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U144	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U145	Thank you, good vice chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I agree with the first questioner who acknowledged you and said it was a good law. For my part, I would also like to congratulate and congratulate this explanatory statement and analysis, which has been added here, which is very thorough and concise, involving all stakeholders. Who still stands for Estonian authors, if not Estonian law developers. But this empty tape law has been tried to do something in this very Chamber before and to achieve a result that would take more account of the interests of our authors. Can you shed some light on the problems that have been taken down in this law and now there is hope that we will come to the adoption of this law? Or what have the previous problems that the Riigikogu hall has not yet been able to adopt this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U146	Thank you for your question. This same bill was also in the process during the previous Riigikogu, during the previous coalition, during the previous government. I think the problem was simply that the final solution or agreement was reached when the Riigikogu ended and the draft law fell out of the procedure in connection with the election of the new composition. What is now different from the draft legislation in the previous formation? It was then agreed that this remuneration would be paid directly from the state budget rather than collected through consumption. Now that we discussed this in the new government, there was no political agreement, there was no consensus that the payment could be covered from the state budget, and it was decided that it should be covered through consumption, i.e. the money must be collected from the purchases made. In fact, I believe that this is the right step, because, as we know, remuneration from the state budget is still used only in Finland. In the past, there was Spain, which used the same thing, but the European Court of Justice ordered them to do so, it was declared illegal, so they too have now changed their order and moved on to a collection fee on consumption. There has also been some substantive change in this respect. However, since there is still hope that this bill will be processed during the composition of this Riigikogu, I deeply hope that it will be resolved and that our authors will be able to receive the same fair remuneration for the creation of their works as the law aims.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U147	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U148	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Legal persons and individuals are known to be subject to different laws, as this one-off remuneration can only be charged by law to individuals and not to legal persons who have the possibility to recover the fee. It's not a new thing, it's a new law. How do you explain this moment of emotional inequality to people by not collecting compensation from the employer's computer, but it is often also used for the things recorded in the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U149	Thank you for your question. On the same question that there is such a difference, we have also been talking about the Commission's debate. Indeed, this is due to the fact that the remuneration can only be collected for copied works downloaded for private purposes. The legal person is known to be unable to download anything for personal purposes; this option is limited to a natural person. There's also... [[Browse papers.]] I'll see if I can find that year, too, since when. I can't find it here now. However, we must be guided by the European requirements, which provide that the remuneration of the so-called empty cassette by legal persons must not be collected, it is illegal, it must not be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U150	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U151	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I understand that this valid list of devices, which is "expired," is from the 2006 Government Regulation. My question is: what has prevented the Government of the Republic from updating and updating this list so far? And the other part of the question from this perspective is this: if this right now remains with the Government of the Republic in order to do it flexibly, which is, I believe, reasonable in terms of equipment and price, because, as you said, there are clearly two parties: the authors are not quite satisfied with the amount and consider it to be larger, but the producers think that perhaps it is too big, and there is probably at some point in the debate whether all the equipment that is put in it is up-to-date, then will the two parties be given some certainty as to what regularity the regulation will then be updated and reviewed, i.e. the possible increase in amounts and also the equipment?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U152	Thank you. So far, one obstacle has been that a ministerial regulation could have supplemented this list, but, as I said before, the law does not have a 'digit price' for a particular device, but is a percentage. And as I pointed out earlier, even the same smart phones that allow downloads and copies to be made are completely different from their price scale, although with the same functionality. It would certainly not be justified that a smartphone, which is significantly more expensive depending on the manufacturer's logo or has been made more expensive with other accessories, should now charge more than a few cheaper phones because of its recording. Because the function they perform, these two different phones on one end of the price scale, are exactly the same, and the memory capacity can in itself be the same. Therefore, this has been an obstacle to the fact that this list has not been amended by the Ministerial Decree in the law, and these rates are in percentage terms. But the certainty of the future depends on how life goes. When new equipment comes, new circumstances, everything needs to be re-examined. If they do not come and the same equipment will remain in service for years, there is no reason to review the list of devices. And third, it's definitely a consumer habit. Again, as I pointed out here before, these studies, which have been taken as a basis, have indicated that consumer habits have changed and are increasingly using these same streaming platforms to watch different works, but not to record or download them. The download is done, but no streaming is used for recording. These are the things that need to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U153	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U154	Thank you for the floor. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, I acknowledge that you have reached the Riigikogu with this bill. Let me ask you a little bit about the choice you've made. For almost four years, your predecessor was able to move this subject away with a toe, even though I protested several times in my office as Minister of Culture against this attitude towards authors and performers who did not receive a decent reward. Should you perhaps remove the person who comments here during the Riigikogu sitting and is wasting my time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U155	Let the questioner focus calmly on the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U156	He then came, despite the fact that it was clear already at that time that it was contrary to European Union law to the solution proposed to compensate for this remuneration through the state budget. After all, you have made a change in substance as his successor, and now you come before us with this option, which the authors prefer and which is in line with European Union law. What's the reason for this change in the Justice Department's choice? Would you explain why you do not share a similar position with your predecessor?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U157	Thank you for your question. In that, too, the authors prefer this new option, I am not quite sure. Because, as far as I can remember, this amount, which would have been taken from the state budget in a year to compensate for it, was considerably higher than what we now think can be collected with this system. But that's why, maybe it was overrated. With regard to why there is now another approach, first of all it was that in the government we concluded with coalition partners that it is not appropriate to burden the state budget to such an extent that the remuneration should be paid from state resources, and this must still be taken into account on the basis of real consumption. Not all taxpayers need to bear this burden in solidarity, but they still pay for those who acquire media or equipment. It was one side. And the other side, as you rightly pointed out, is that the same European law was so and so. As I said, it still works in Finland, but Finland, at least as far as we know, remains the only country in the European Union where it is covered by the state budget. Of course, we also have no desire to have any infringement proceedings from the European Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U158	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U159	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In one of your earlier responses, you have brought the financial dimension of the possible impact of this law and said that it is better to be able to pay the authors EUR 900000 instead of zero. I ask this technical question: is there an administration fee in it, or is it going to go over it? Or is it pure money?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U160	Thank you. Yeah, there's definitely an administration fee in there. There is one person in the Association of Estonian Authors who is involved in collecting it and at least at present it is capable of this one person. There is certainly also a connection with him in terms of labour costs, which must be covered in the same way, because where they come from elsewhere, ex-tax beneficiaries have to support their tax collectors themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U161	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U162	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Minister of Justice! Here's the question. In fact, this draft does not deal at all with one category of authors, they are writers. More and more books appear as audio books. Could there be an increase in the amount of money received from these media for writers in the future? And how should this happen when writers usually conclude a licence agreement with a publisher? I have a little publishing house myself, and that's why I'm interested in the subject. In fact, that is a bit of a personal interest, because I have also written some songs, and I see here the possibility that if I support this bill, I will increase my income. But my second question is, am I going to break the operating limit?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U163	Thank you for your question. I don't have, and I can't, personally object to you creating a work, Valdo, and getting a fair reward for the work you've done. This bill does not deal with this area, for example, how digital books can be integrated into this system, but the bill is still going through the first reading. But all these excellent thoughts that could give our authors additional benefits for the efforts they have contributed to the promotion of Estonian cultural history, I think it is worth supporting.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U164	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U165	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. How does it apply to equipment purchased from abroad? Is there any way that what we bought from abroad will reach our authors?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U166	Thank you for your question. I fear that if someone buys a computer or mobile phone from abroad, puts it in a pocket or bag and drives it to Estonia, the Estonian author will not receive a penny of it. His good friends and colleagues abroad, who pursue the same profession, may benefit from this. I'm sure they'll benefit from it. Then the only hope is that these friends will go from Estonia to buy a mobile phone.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U167	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U168	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Since you missed me, Raivo, first of all about this operating limit, can I even vote on this bill or not? Or am I gonna give myself an extra income and be a criminal afterwards? That's what I want to know. Second thing, I was talking about audio books. Actually, I don't think I can make any suggestions for improvement, but I hope your colleagues from the ministry will hear and maybe think about it. And then I also have the question: how many companies are affected by the current draft in terms of administrative burden? As far as I'm concerned, it's actually a very small number, just the importers, less than ten companies. If people now have the idea that all merchants and all buyers and everyone has to deal with some sort of settlement, it's probably a wrong idea. This concerns only a few, as I said, less than ten companies in Estonia in terms of administrative burdens. But this personal operating limit, too, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U169	Yeah, thanks for the question. Without now doing a deep legal analysis, I think that I may be wrong that the voter has given you a mandate to participate in lawmaking and the adoption of laws in the Riigikogu. So I don't think there's gonna be any very big potential possibility of criminal prosecution and any way to get court-martialed. I hope so. But I have to look at it exactly, maybe there are some nuances here that, in certain cases, a member of the Riigikogu may not participate in the work of the Riigikogu, even though I cannot believe it. As far as the other side is concerned, indeed, this circle is not very large and there are not many legal persons here, companies that bring these equipment and resources to the country. At the same time, I dare say that their administrative burden does not change much in terms of substance, because in fact they are already keeping the same records, they are reporting about it and they are also paying this tax or this fee. But this reward is just so small that it goes to support the same person who collects it, counts and should then distribute it. So they don't change anything in terms of administrative burdens. Now, indeed, as I said before, it is like a double-edged sword on the one hand, certainly the interests of the authors are represented here, but on the other there are the interests of the importers. It is clear that the cost of these devices and media is rising to some extent. My personal assessment is that it's marginal, but sometimes even in marginal cases, big things are done. So I do not rule out that there is still pressure or need to explain why, in one way or another, it should not be implemented at this rate or less. But I don't see that there's an additional administrative burden.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U170	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U171	Thank you. Mr. Minister! After all, no one disputes that the purpose is noble. And the question is not whether or not, but how. I find it a little strange to hear such justification, but others do too, and in many places in Europe this is exactly what has been done. Well, we don't have to do everything because things are often done differently elsewhere and not as well as things have been done in Estonia. The second thing that strikes my ear is that a lot of those involved say that it is not a tax, it is just like a reward. On this point, I think you can call a wolf a woodswolf calmly. After all, it is a tax that comes from the pockets of the Estonian people. However, tax can be levied in absolutely everything and in very many ways. If we look back in time, in my opinion, it was 2002-2002, the Ministry of Culture presented the exact same subject with its excellent idea that copies machines and paper should also be taxed for the benefit of the authors. Fortunately, this stupid idea did not go through, but the exact same heading includes this method of doing what is good and good for the authors. Do you not think that, if we tax absolutely all those who do not actually copy, consume etc., we are actually unfair and we are also taxing those who do not actually receive this service and do not consume it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U172	Thank you for your question. I think it would make more sense if consumption was paid by a particular consumer, not all in solidarity should cover part of the consumption of members of society. That's one thing. As far as this definition is concerned, I will say that it can be viewed one way or the other, but at least the statutory definition is that it is a fair reward for the authors for the work they have done, and their so-called product is then consumed for their own personal purposes. So, in law terms, we have not defined it as a tax, and in the current law it is not defined as a tax either. The name "empty tape fee" also speaks of a fee, not an empty tape tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U173	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U174	Thank you. Two things. First of all, whether this is a reward or a tax, whether the wolf is a wolf or a challenge to the forest, we can still argue, but this dispute would not take too far. I very much liked your statement that the consumer should actually pay for the benefit that is being consumed. If we look at current practice, for example, for books, the person who buys the book will pay the person who rents the book. When we talk about musical works, it's the one who goes to the concert. In the case of radio, the intermediary shall pay. My first question is: has the Ministry of Justice considered that, in the case of this method of taxation, or in the case of the method of payment, let us not get caught up in these words, also consider methods where this taxation or remuneration would be fairer in that sense, so that it would be more targeted at these direct consumers or at least at those consumption intermediaries? Or has the Justice Department not considered this possibility? And the second question on that end, perhaps referring to Valdo and the Üllar, who did not ask for it. In various streaming platforms we also have to get books...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U175	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U176	...and also the works of actors, including those of other countries. So, what about the audio books and the actors' recordings that are available? And if we only refer it to Estonian authors, can this not be a case where we will later be accused of unequal treatment of artists from other countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U177	Thank you. Well, I'll start at the end. You questioned whether we should do what European law requires. I think that's what we can build on. If European law provides that this charge is to be collected from equipment which is being landed and marketed in one of the European Union countries, and that charge goes to those copyright organisations that operate or are represented in that country, then it will balance out between the Member States. In that sense, I think it could work quite well. I owed the legal person's fee before the answer. I do not now find the figures for the years, but this is indeed the case of the European Court of Justice, which says that legal persons cannot collect the same so-called empty tape fee, must still be a natural person. But if I have understood the very beginning of the question correctly, then I say that we are, after all, directing this burden to consumers, to consumption, rather than distributing it to all taxpayers in general. (It comments: "To all the buyers of the flash drive? ") For all the buyers of the flash drive? Yeah, they are, everyone who consumes that flash drive, they're the ones he's aimed at. You mean, who's here recording music? Look, then we have to create some sort of surveillance facilities and bodies in Estonia that will really start monitoring it and see if anyone has put a piece of music or a film on it when they put the flash drive on the computer. I don't think anyone would want that in this Chamber of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U178	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I now ask Heidy Purga, vice-chairman of the Committee on Culture, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U179	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I will mediate the debate that took place in the Committee on Culture, which was very substantive and relevant, and which in general focused on three broad issues, which I will be talking about right now. First, the Committee on Culture discussed the draft law amending the Copyright Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, including on 24 September. The committee was chaired by our chairman, Aadu Black. Helle-Moonika Helme, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Vice-President Heidy Purga, Katri Raik, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, Marko Šorin and Commission officials Angelika Berg and Urvo Klopets took part in the meeting. As a guest, a member of the Riigikogu, our colleague Tarmo Kruusimäe, participated in the session. The invited guests were Raivo Aeg, Minister of Justice, Gea Lepik, Head of the Department of Intellectual Property and Competition Law of the Ministry of Justice, and adviser Henrik Trasberg. The Minister of Justice explained to us the whole context of the amendment and also drew attention to the three most important changes, which I will now introduce. First of all, the system of remuneration of an empty cassette is amended so that both the list of recording equipment and carriers and the amount of remuneration will be established in the future by a decree of the Government of the Republic. At the moment, the rates are laid down in the law, but the system is too rigid according to the analysis. There is a need to establish technical parameters and pricing, which, according to the Minister, would certainly not be appropriate in the law, but could be in a regulation where he would provide a more dynamic opportunity. According to the second fundamental amendment, the right to receive a fee for an empty cassette is also extended to the producers of the first recording of the film, as the product of their intellectual work can also be downloaded. And the third amendment concerns the extension of the Patent Office's tasks, which was discussed here by the Minister. The functions of the Ministry of Justice with an operational character will be transferred to dealing with information on the status of orphan works, the national supervision of the activities of collecting societies and the organisation of the work of the copyright committee. Its aim is to develop a competence centre for intellectual property law in Estonia in the Patent Office. As the Minister explained here, it is known that the procedure of the draft began already during the previous Riigikogu and the government. Throughout this period, stakeholders have not been excluded; they are familiar with the procedure. It was said that the bill would inevitably not satisfy all the interest groups, just as it did here today. The Minister added that if, at present, the profitability of the empty cassette system is zero, it could in the future be estimated at between EUR 900000 and EUR million per year. The price of the price proposed in the regulation is below the average European price scale , by the way, has been provided by the Ministry of Culture, but it must be taken into account when finding and using information technology solutions for different cultures in different countries. The neighbors were also mentioned. For example, a study carried out in Latvia revealed that people are increasingly using streaming and that fees have already been paid on these platforms. We need to look at today's situation and make decisions accordingly. Another observation from the discussion of the Committee on Culture: in foreign countries, regulation may already have fallen behind in another way, perhaps too much will be charged, that is to say, research supports more use of streaming rather than downloading into the key to this law. It was already clear from the Minister, but I will either supplement the Committee on Culture on the basis of a debate or confirm that Minister Raivo Aeg said that the fee for an empty tape was not a new tax, but a renewal of the same system. During the previous Riigikogu, there was a solution that this specific amount would be transferred from the state budget each year, but in the case of the current draft, the government tended to think that the tax liability would only come to those taxpayers who would really acquire the recording equipment themselves. There is no desire to impose a tax on those who do not buy the equipment for themselves. The amount of the additional amount to be collected through the importers and the distribution network is from cents to a few euros depending on the functionality of the device. There was also talk about the difference between natural and legal persons or between individuals and legal persons in the key to this law. I asked the Commission for clarification in its meeting on the recovery of the remuneration for legal persons. I am not going to repeat that here, because those who were in the Chamber heard very well how the Minister answered my question today. In particular, legal persons have the right to recover a fee and the reason is based on the caselaw of the Court of Justice. The remuneration of an empty cassette is, by its nature, a compensation for the exception of personal use. Aadu Must, Chairman of the Commission, drew attention to the analogous laws of the rest of the European Union and asked whether they would harmonise with our laws. Henrik Trasberg, one of the authors of this amendment, replied that 21 countries in the European Union have exactly the same system. Finland, where there is a national budget system, is a major exception. Spain used to have a national budget, but it changed after the Court's judgment. Today, there has been talk in this Chamber about the responsibilities of the Patent Office, which was also discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Culture. Marko Šorin asked whether the Patent Office would also use the fee to be collected for administration and how many Estonian artists would earn from the fee of an empty tape, for example, compared to their closest neighbours, Latvia and Lithuania. The answer came from the Minister that the Patent Office is a functioning entity from the state budget, the collected fee is mediated to the authors, and the Patent Office cannot use this money for administration. However, as regards the amount of the remuneration, the Minister drew attention to the national case-law in which the Court has ordered the State to pay damages to the authors. And when you look at the final decision, the Estonian court has considered the same methodology, more or less, as proposed in the draft. The determination of the order of magnitude of the remuneration was further discussed, as it is still somewhat unclear in the current text of the draft law. It has been worded in a bit too general, according to me. I, Heidy Purga, asked what had been the main arguments for completing the fee rate. Henrik Trasberg pointed out, as a central principle, that rightholders should be guaranteed fair compensation for copies of their works for personal use, and that different consumer patterns had been assessed to establish this. The background is studies since 2017 and 2018 and the draft legislation has also been studied by Finnish researchers. The average of the European Union and the amount previously collected in Estonia have also been taken into account when setting this price or fee rate, which, for example, in 2008 was 280000 euros. Heidy Purga asked for more time to review the regulation, and Henrik Trasberg replied that the desire to carry out the relevant studies every four to five years. Obviously there is no resource to do them more often, as these should be large-scale research. There was also talk of a legal person using a computer, but this minister here already stopped on my question. Our guest, the music specialist Tarmo Kruusimäe, who is very familiar with this bill, also took the floor and made his comment. He said that he was not very critical of the draft, but added that the argument put forward by a representative of the ministry is strange. Data media are taxed on the basis of the fee for an empty tape. It's not really the consumer, it's the importer. According to Kruusimäe, reports show that, for example, both Telia and Elisa take 30 million euros out to their parent companies. How much air is included in the price of the device will not be seen until a new mobile phone arrives on the market. He added that if Lithuania has a mobile phone that the Lithuanians buy, with 6 euros, our bill provides for 60 cents. The Lat could be elevated solely because Estonian authors have been buttoned in view of the interests of the importers. Finally, two other ministries were discussed in the Commission, i.e. the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Justice, in contact with this draft law. It turned out that the Ministry of Justice was responsible for the draft, but the Ministry of Culture had the opportunity to initiate a review of the regulation when circumstances had changed drastically. The Regulation can also be amended more frequently if studies are carried out. Mr Black, the chairman of our committee, proposed to the Commission that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by Wednesday 14 October and that the first reading of the draft be stopped. The chairman of the committee proposed to stick to the deadline of the legislative amendments, i.e. 10 working days. It was decided, by consensus, to place the draft on the plenary agenda by 14 October 2020 and to propose that the first reading be closed. This proposal also received a consensual support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U180	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Let us open the speeches of the political groups. On behalf of the Group of the Isamaa of Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U181	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good guardians of the Republic. Our group obviously has the largest number of members of the Estonian authors' support group, and these people are also perhaps more involved. Now, I would like to say to a good colleague who here, perhaps, was opting for it more like poning, so I would highlight two approaches. One is that if we see a problem and we find this magic key, they're all gonna say, "Let's do it! Let's do it! " But when Estonians come together, they see the problem and call it " Let's do it!" then the arguments for not doing it will be discussed, and then it will be found that it is the right time not to do it, and they will go away satisfiedly, we have found so many arguments to do nothing. I would like to remind you that in this very Chamber, we were dealing with a bill where we were simply compensating for the well-being of 19 people afterwards, because we found it to be our honourable debt. I find that we have done an injustice to hundreds and thousands of Estonian authors, precisely in the way that we have preferred foreign corporations. Yes, we have some political parties here looking like an entrepreneur, but he forgets that the author is also an entrepreneur. The author of the capital, he owns his own product, owns his own property. Now is the time when we can calmly say that we have not known why we have preferred Estonian authors to foreign large companies, and now it is time to turn around. I dare say that cell phones and computers don't get much more expensive. How is it possible that, if Lithuania and Latvia have already updated these empty tape fees, they will have cheaper equipment than we have in Estonia? Now there is a statement that if we update the list in Estonia, these things will become more expensive. In fact, the market is setting this price and we do not have to worry. Indeed, how much air actually exists in computers and mobile phones, so we all know that if you buy a computer, by the moment you go out of the store, the price has already dropped by about 20%. Therefore, if we update the fee for this empty tape, we will not harm the consumer. It is already possible for all music lovers to actually acquire equipment from neighbouring countries, knowing that at least this other country cares about its own authors if the Estonian state fails to do so. There is no exception to cases where the Estonian author has already simply had himself written into the copyright system of a neighbouring country, because he feels that his creation is better protected in another country. For 14 years, we haven't done anything, and now we find that we should still discuss some nuances as to why we shouldn't do anything. I think that the current composition of the Riigikogu finds its will to change something. We find that in 2020 it will not be enough if we tell Estonian authors to find this CD-ROM or empty tape, sell and pick it up somewhere. Lithuania accounted for 5.4 million last year, it was 11 million in Finland, we are saying that perhaps EUR 900000 is enough. I don't think that's enough. It is good that we get this list into the law in such a way that it does not stand in the way of a government regulation to update it, and that it does not remain too general, so that the government does not want to update it by regulation. Let us then be open to all offers. I think this bill will take us forward and no Estonian author will ever have to register in a neighbouring state's copyright system. We bring our talents back home and show that we care more about ourselves, the Estonian authors, than just waving a blue black and white flag on 20 August and, as if, saying: authors, you are necessary for us. In hypocrisy, we may be among the world's most advanced countries, but we are a disgrace and a rear end in updating the fee for an empty tape. We will overcome this disgrace status when we find, inter-partyly, that Estonian authors need to be treated equally. Thank you. Please support the bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U182	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations, so the negotiations are closed. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 233. The first reading is finished. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 28 October at 17:00. The second item is dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U183	Let's keep going. Today's third item is the first reading of the draft Act 218 on the ratification of the Treaty on the termination of bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic. I request Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U184	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The agreement on the termination of bilateral investment agreements between Member States of the European Union, which we are discussing today, aims to conclude bilateral investment agreements within the European Union in a coordinated manner. Historically, these agreements aimed at promoting bilateral investment by offering mutual guarantees. Now we can say that the legal order of all the countries that have joined the European Union is, in fact, based on the principles of the free movement of capital and services, that the need for such additional guarantees has disappeared because the rules of the single market apply and all investors in the European Union enjoy the same level of protection under European Union law. Equal treatment. It can therefore be said that this is also the basis for the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in spring 2018 was adopted in Achmea v Slovak Republic, according to which the possibility of access to arbitration contained in mutual protection agreements between the Member States of the European Union is incompatible with European Union law. Consequently, the agreement we are discussing today has been negotiated between the countries of the European Union, and now the idea is that we abolish bilateral agreements within the European Union and, in future, deal with these matters under European Union law. In fact, this means that for investors inside the European Union who would like to invest in Estonia, nothing will change except that in the case of dispute settlement, arbitration will no longer be brought, but the court of the European Union Member State to which the investment has been made, i.e. in the case of investments in Estonia, Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U185	Thank you, Minister. No questions for you. I ask Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U186	Thank you, good manager. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed this draft on 29 September. The Minister explained to us, as here before you today, in a very thorough and comprehensive manner this draft, its history, its background and its aim, so that bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union can be concluded in a coordinated manner. Most of these 300 agreements come from the 1990s when either or both parties to the agreement were not yet a member of the European Union, but after accession to the European Union there is no longer any need for such agreements, because the rules of the single market apply and investors enjoy the same level of protection under European Union law. The Committee on Foreign Affairs also took three procedural decisions. First of all, it was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 14 October, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs also proposed that the first reading be stopped, and it was understandable that the Committee on Foreign Affairs appointed the representative of the commission to be the one standing before you in the reading of the draft. All decisions were taken by consensus. We ask that the first reading of this draft be stopped and supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U187	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft 218. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 28 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U188	Let's keep going. Today's last, fourth item is the first reading of the draft Act 240 on the ratification of the Agreement on Investment and Mutual Protection between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic. I request Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U189	Honourable Riigikogu! This agreement is a 'follow-up' to the previous pan-European agreement, a framework agreement for the termination of bilateral investment protection agreements. This is also our bilateral investment protection agreement with Sweden. Sweden does not object to the termination of the bilateral agreements on investment protection as a phenomenon, but it wants to end them precisely by means of bilateral agreements, rather than putting the European Union out of fire. The reason is not a specific issue with Estonia on a bilateral basis, but because Sweden is in the process of having disputes in arbitration on the basis of the European Union's Energy Charter and does not wish to end this provision in the Energy Charter, which talks about investment protection agreements, it wishes to do so on the basis of a bilateral agreement in order to preserve its right to debate in arbitration on the basis of the Energy Charter. These disputes are not held with the Estonian state, but are disputes between investors, which correspond to the Swedish legal order. Nothing will change for Estonian entrepreneurs and investors. By its very nature, this agreement has the same legal effect and consequences as the previous one, which simply draws a line down on bilateral agreements, and will be dealt with in future disputes between undertakings and between the State or undertakings before the courts of the respective Member State of the European Union to which the investment has been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U190	Thank you, Minister. No questions for you. I now request Valdo Randpere, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U191	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Now, if somebody's eyes were glowing by looking at the title of this bill, because it seemed that now we are breaking off relations with Sweden, Karl XII is no longer ruling the world, and Estonia is not Sweden's province, then you have to wait for your stellar hour. This draft is, unfortunately, exactly as Urmas Reinsalu has already said, rather technical. In fact, the reason for this is that, under European Union law, we are going to look at these things together and all bilateral agreements are gradually coming to an end, so the investment protection agreement already concluded between Sweden and Estonia in 1992. This draft was launched by the Government of the Republic on 14 September in order to amend and terminate this agreement. The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the preparation of the draft for first reading on 29 September. During the debate on the draft, we were briefed by Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu. Basically, it's like an extension to the previous 218 SE, which we just heard here at Urmas Reinsalu and Keit Pentus-Rosimdose introducing us. The Committee on Foreign Affairs took the following procedural decisions by consensus: It was proposed to put 240 drafts on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for first reading on Wednesday 14 October. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading. By decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Valdo Randpere, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, is the draft rapporteur, that is me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U192	Dear waitress, there are questions for you. Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U193	Thank you. Good waitress! You started out so moody, I remembered a three-year-old story. I was then at the remote and spoke about the conclusion of an analogous agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Kingdom of Denmark. At the time, I was asked a single question, and I still wonder why I was asked that question in the first place. Mart Nutt was missing, and he asked that, since this was a kingdom, the king would have to make this covenant. Why did he ask, I don't know, but I'm taking this opportunity to ask the speaker on the remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U194	In this case, it is not even the conclusion of a contract but the amendment and termination of the contract. It wasn't discussed in the committee, but you, Marko, who I have a special sense of sympathy for, I'm going to answer a little bit more. I really do have some totally verbal memos here that have been exchanged between embassies, very polite. Everyone is very happy to have the opportunity to communicate with each other and to be able to cancel this old treaty and change the situation. In fact, the way to say it now is that, if we do not change the contract now, but simply cancel, this agreement will be valid for 20 years, because that is what the old treaty says. So we have to change it first and then cancel it. But the king is probably not going to put his hand on this; it is still going to remain at the level of ratification of the intergovernmental foreign treaties on the basis of inter-Diplomatic notes, and this is the draft we are discussing here at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-14_U195	Thank you. No further questions. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 240. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 28 October at 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, today's last item is closed and the sitting is closed. See you tomorrow!
