ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to welcome you to the launch of the new 2020 session. We will begin the Monday session of the first working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. But before we go to our normal procedures, I'd like to recall an important anniversary. Today, 130 years have passed since the birth of Jüri Uluotsa. Jüri Uluots was a well-known Estonian social and state figure, lecturer, journalist, he was the prime minister of the last Estonian government, one of the authors of the Estonian constitution, and he was very much involved in the activities of the Constituent Assembly in the early years of the Republic of Estonia. From 21 June 1941 he served as Prime Minister as President. We can say that, thanks to him, Estonia's legal continuity remained through long years of occupation. In 1944, together with the national forces of Estonia and the National Committee, he called for resistance against the invading red troops; he called the fight of Estonian men the second war on freedom, the fight for our independence and freedom. Together with the National Committee, he also convened the government of Otto Tief, who, by the first decree, declared Estonia neutral in the ongoing war and demanded that all foreign troops leave the territory of Estonia. Unfortunately, the situation was slightly different than during the War of Independence, and independence could not be restored, but Jüri Uluots managed to escape to Sweden and put into work a government in exile, thanks to whom we were able to announce in 1991 on the basis of the legal continuity of Estonian independence. We have reason to remember Jüri Uluots with deep gratitude. Now, let's go to the billing and debriefing. Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U2	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! During the peaceful holidays, your mailbox received a proposal to make a flag day from June 1st. June 1st is International Day for Child Welfare. If we think about what kind of country we want in Estonia, and if we read different development plans, then the great goal is to have a child-friendly Estonia. We can show child-friendliness with attention and this attention is the Day for Child Protection, which has been marked since 1925 on the initiative of the United States and was originally dedicated to supporting Chinese children without parents. In Estonia, without parents, there are a thousand children to whom our society offers a home and family. June 1 could be the day we raise blue-black-white flags in the morning to think together that children are growing around us and children are carrying on our generation. The draft will be handed over on behalf of the members of the Reform Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U3	Thank you. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U4	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! I wish everyone a busy and pleasant year and good cooperation. On behalf of the Social Democrats, I will hand over the draft law amending the Holidays and Holidays Act and the Estonian Flag Act. It is based on a proposal sent to us by 19 organisations at the end of December. These organisations have been carrying this issue with them for a very long time. And you'll see what a cooperation! Everyone has the same idea on their first day of work. I very much hope that the opposition and the coalition will not be in the process of dealing with this draft, that everyone will agree and that we can celebrate child protection day as a national holiday and flag day already on 1 June this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two surprisingly similar drafts. The Management Board decides on their further processing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. And now, ladies and gentlemen, the control of presence! There are 94 people present and there are no 7. We now come to the vote on this week's agenda. I vote on the Riigikogu plenary... I'm sorry! I think there's some procedural questions. Please, Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U6	Thank you, Mr President. I understand that the Bureau should also discuss, before bringing the agenda before us, how and in what order this agenda will come before us. When I look at the agenda for today, we have one substantive draft, its first reading, on the third point, and there are two questions before it. Apart from the fact that perhaps the opposition would also like to discuss some of the drafts in substance, and even the coalition could sometimes discuss some of the drafts in substance, perhaps it would make sense to have a third item on the agenda, either (a) put it first today or (b) put it on Tuesday's agenda. This is because it is not normal that we have enquiries where, as a rule, those who are interested in the subject of inquiry are present, and then there is a substantive draft and then there are enquiries again. What's the reason for the board? I would like to make a specific proposal to put the third item on the agenda on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U7	Yes, of course, the Bureau discussed both today's agenda and this week's agenda. Today's division was due to the fact that we met Prime Minister Jüri Ratta's wish to answer the questioners first. Since we have no time limit in the Monday session, I believe that we can all participate very thoroughly in the debate on all issues. Jürgen Ligi, is there a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U8	Thank you. I have a proposition for the board. It would be a good idea to meet the Riigikogu. We have been quite sustainable in submitting inquiries. Most weeks have been without questioning, but now suddenly there are five enquiries in one day. It certainly does not benefit from their discussion. I have a proposal that, in future, the Bureau, in cooperation with the ministers, will, of course, dispel requests for information for different weeks.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U9	Thanks for the offer. Let's... Hanno Pevkur has his finger up again. Is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U10	Absolutely! Absolutely procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U11	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U12	I didn't get an answer to my question. I had a specific proposal to put this item on Tuesday. If the whole hall agrees, we have not done any wrong to the Prime Minister, who can still be the first. In this way, we can discuss the draft in essence on Tuesday, after all, by tomorrow we have only one item on the agenda, the law amending the Citizenship Act. In fact, it would be appropriate for us, given the circumstances of today, where we are going to have five enquiries, to stick to our enquiries, and tomorrow the Minister of the Interior would come before us to talk about the implementation of the obligation to leave and the ban on entry and mass immigration into Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U13	The Governing Board shall draw up the agenda on the basis of the wishes and proposals of the committees, as well as how the members of the government can come to the Riigikogu from their other duties, in order to carry out their duties best in every way possible. The Bureau has therefore decided to draw up the agenda in this way. I see that there are a lot of procedural questions and more and more. Jürgen Ligi, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U14	Thank you. I ask for a substantive response to my first proposal. Just because you say thank you isn't enough for me. Tell me if the board would be willing to do such a thing to disperse questions and not pile them all up on one Monday. Do you think that makes sense? The formal answer I know is that the wishes of the ministers are also being taken into consideration here, but the wish of the Riigikogu would actually be to deal with enquiries, if possible, on different days, in different weeks. Are you serious about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U15	Yes, thank you! We'll discuss it. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U16	Thank you. For many times already, the Bureau cannot manage to draw up a agenda that is balanced by day. This week, too, we have an agenda before us, where more points are scheduled today than the rest of the days put together. Yes, I understand that this is partly because there are not many substantive drafts coming from the government, and that is why the rest of the days are unbearably thin. But that doesn't justify the precedent you've made right now. I would argue that this has not been the case before in the Riigikogu after the restoration of independence, so that enquiries and drafts are confused. How do you justify setting such a precedent? I'm asking for a substantive answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U17	Thank you. Undoubtedly, the agendas have been very different over the years. The number of points on different days has been very different, and the fact that there are now drafts on Monday, in addition to enquiries, is a very clear consequence of the changes adopted during the previous Riigikogu. In the old days, Monday was only for questioning, but now there are other issues that can be discussed on that day. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U18	Thank you! I would ask for a more specific comment on your answer to Mr Pevkur's second question. Did I misunderstand, or do you think it is now that the agenda of the Riigikogu and the rhythm of the Riigikogu depend on how it fits the government? I have previously been in the composition of two Riigikogus, this is the third composition, and during the entire term of the mandate, I have also been able to perform the duties of a member of the government. I have so far realised that in a parliamentary state, as a rule, a member of the government is still setting up his activities according to how Parliament fits and how Parliament's Rules of Procedure provide. Do you now have such a new, modern and flexible approach, where Parliament's Rules of Procedure can be bent according to how the members of the government are better suited?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U19	Well, that's completely purely your own interpretation. Of course, the Riigikogu proposes or invites members of the Riigikogu to come to the members of the Riigikogu, but also always when you were a minister, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has tried to take account of the workload of both the members of the Riigikogu and the members of the government and to match them in the best way. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U20	Thank you. You rightly pointed out that the change in the Monday agenda was due to changes adopted during the previous term, which decided that it would be possible to put drafts in addition to inquiries on Monday. Since I was a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the previous composition, when this law was being dealt with under the leadership of Lord Pomerants, I know that the will at that time was that, for these Mondays, if there were no enquiries, and we had them, especially at the beginning of the formations, but not only at the beginning of the formations, it would also be possible for the Bureau and the committees to plan drafts so that the agenda would not be empty. But here's the way it's been, we have a agenda full of questions, we can't put questions on other days, and you've put up some more drafts. After all, it is theoretically possible that 12:00 a.m. will be available and no inquiries have been processed. As a result, the question is as follows: has the Bureau considered the possibility that, if, for example, there are three questions on the agenda, the drafts will no longer be placed on this day, or any other rule that everyone understands, which would result in this type of debate in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U21	Unfortunately, the great hall was not so well aware of the discussions you had held in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Our home and operating procedures have been changed to what they are today. You probably should have been more clearly communicating. The Riigikogu Board adopts the agenda according to its best judgement and knowledge. Are we even gonna make it to the hearing today? There's more and more procedural questions. It's probably something else. Here you go, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U22	I have a very simple proposal. The Rules of Procedure say that the agenda can be changed if no one objects. Are you asking a question about who's against, and we can move on? Perhaps no one is opposed, and everyone agrees that we can change the agenda by putting this bill on Tuesday. Then the situation has been resolved and we will approve the agenda as amended.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U23	Thank you. Personally, I think that in this case we will remain on the agenda every day and every week, and then the Bureau will become a rather pointless body. If you are not satisfied with the agenda, we will now go to the vote, to the adoption of the agenda, then you will be able to express your position in the vote. [[Voices in the hall.]] Mr Pevkur, you have received the floor twice already. Please, here you go, third time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U24	Certainly, the debate on today's agenda could have gone faster even if we had not had a history lesson. Certainly the mention of Uluots is very correct, but perhaps it could have been done in a shorter way, but I will put that aside here. If the members of the Riigikogu have a proposal to add to or amend the agenda, then there is a possibility for this to happen at home and in working order. The President of the sitting of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask, as Kaja Kallas rightly pointed out. If any of the political groups are opposed, if the EKRE is opposed, well, then it is against the EKRE. But this question must be asked: will anyone object to the specific proposal that I made to move item No 3 from today's agenda to item No 1 tomorrow's agenda? A specific proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U25	All right! Since you are so determined to want it, I would ask the members of the Riigikogu to vote on Hanno Pevkur's proposal. [[In the diner.]] Is anyone against Hanno Pevkur's proposal? Please show me your hand! [[In the diner.]] You see, there are people who are opposed, so this proposal won't work. I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the first working week of the III plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 41 delegates in favour of the draft agenda, 40 against, no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U26	Let's go to the first point today. Quiet, please! Inquiry submitted by Riigikogu members Taavi Rõivas, Annely Akkermanni, Johannes Kerdi, Signe Kivi, Maris Lauri, Andres Suti, Aivar Sõerdi, Yoko Alenderi, Heidy Purga, Siim Kallas, Vilja Toomasti, Valdo Randpere, Ants Laaneots, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, Jüri Jaansoni, Keit Pentus-Rosimkoos, Urve Tiidus, Toomas Kivimägi, Marko Mihkelson, Erkki Keldo and Kaja Kallas on 13 November 2019 regarding the financing of Rail Baltic (No 11). Representative of heirs Riigikogu member Taavi Rõivas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U27	Good meeting manager! Good Prime Minister! Colleagues! If previous governments have worked to prevent the evil that comes from the east, be it security threats, smuggling or illegal border crossingrs, and to invest in the western community, be it Balticconnector, power lines or Rail Baltic, the current government stands out by the fact that the development of the eastern border has been postponed to an unknown distance and the completion of the most important connections, including Rail Baltic, is literally at risk. We know that in the country's budget strategy approved in spring 2016, which concerned the years 2017 to 20.20, Rail Baltic investments were planned for a total of EUR 258.5 million for four years. Further on, the RES has decreased year after year, and therefore the opposition has serious doubts as to whether this delay has not endangered the timely completion of Rail Baltic as the most important link to the West, continental Europe. Already on 11 November, several members of the Reform Party Group asked seven questions about this. Of these, the first three require an evaluation by the Prime Minister, Questions Nos 4 and 5 require an accurate factual response and Nos 6 and 7. But in order for all of this to receive a letter of verbatim, I will read these questions. First of all, do you consider Rail Baltic to be a strategically important object for Estonia? Secondly, does your government support the construction of Rail Baltic? Thirdly, why has your government reduced the amount of strategic investment with such a significant impact from year to year? Fourthly, how much money has been spent so far and for what purpose? Fifthly, how much has Rail Baltic been allocated in the draft state budget for 2020? Sixthly, do you see the risk of a significant reduction in the budget for Rail Baltic by the planned deadline? Seventhly, can you give the Riigikogu a guarantee that the current budget period of the European Union's 2014-2020 budget period, for which the funds have already been allocated to Rail Baltic, will be used in full? The bottom line is that we should not waste the money we have already asked the country and then go back to asking for it. Now, let us admit that it has taken two months and two days to answer these questions, and a lot has changed since then, but unfortunately, the news that has reached the public has shown that changes have not taken place in the direction of the better. So we are concerned about one of the most important investments in Estonia's history and we ask you to answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U28	Thank you. As usual, the interviewer's representative's speech is 5 minutes and the minister's response from the remote is up to 15 minutes. Every member of the Riigikogu can then ask one oral question, the length of which is 1 minute, and then you can have time to negotiate. Please, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U29	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I thank you for this question because Rail Baltic is one of the most important infrastructure investments in the three Baltic States, and I welcome your sincere concern about the implementation and promotion of this project. At the formal meeting of the Baltic Council of Ministers held in Riga on 6 December last year, we agreed with colleagues from Latvia and Lithuania that ministers responsible for transport would regularly give prime ministers from the three Baltic states an overview of the development of the project in order to improve its governance. Ministers responsible for transport must also prepare proposals on how to improve joint management and build trust in a more successful and rapid implementation of the project. Substantive work and analysis are currently underway to optimise and improve the coherent management of the project between countries. The proposals will be submitted for the next Baltic Prime Ministers meeting, which will take place in Tallinn on 7 February. It is certainly our goal that Rail Baltic be completed within the next budgetary period of the European Union. Negotiations on the next long-term budget of the European Union are still ongoing and providing additional funding for Rail Baltic is a common goal of the Baltic States. We have raised the issue of the need for funding for Rail Baltic at all the meetings on the European Union budget, which have also been attended by our European counterparts. It is therefore a clear priority for me and the government to make progress and find European Union funding for this project. Now I will answer your questions. I will answer the first and second questions together. The first question is: do you consider Rail Baltic to be a strategic project for Estonia? The second question is: will your government support the construction of Rail Baltic? The establishment of Rail Baltic remains a priority for the whole country. On 28 November, when I laid the cornerstone of the Saustinõmme Rail Baltic route road viaduct, I said that Rail Baltic will create a historically important connection for us both within Estonia and between the Baltic States and Northern and Central Europe. It is also a pleasure to note that in Poland, too, the construction of Rail Baltic is going as planned. Rail Baltic is necessary for our people and our economy and for the European Union as a whole. On the railroad linking the Baltic countries to Central Europe, both our people and our goods can move several times faster, safer, more convenient, more efficient and, of course, more environmentally friendly. Rail Baltic was, has and will remain more than a high speed rail. This is a dream of a mentally and physically united Europe. This project is also important for our security because it improves military mobility and helps to strengthen our defence capabilities and regional security. In particular, we agreed during the coalition negotiations that if, for the next budget period of the European Union, the Rail Baltic project is not guaranteed 81% of the co-financing, we will review the project's cost-effectiveness, the timetable for the route and the local stops. In the meantime, we will continue activities that support Estonian infrastructure in general. Your third question: why has your government significantly reduced the volume of such a significant investment year after year? The total funding of the Rail Baltic project has not been reduced compared to the financing agreements concluded for the use of CEF funds. The timing of the use of the European Union contribution and the state budget contribution under these agreements has been modified. The state budget strategy and the state budget shall include expenditure related to Rail Baltic, in particular on the basis of financing agreements already concluded and in accordance with the annual breakdown of the initial expenditure in this agreement. As all financing agreements set a deadline for the eligibility of expenditure, the effective use of Union support before that date is an essential part of the implementation of the agreements. This means that the parties to the agreement, in particular the States, have the right to reallocate funds between the years, but they must ensure that there is a compulsory public self-financing for all activities and costs in all years of implementation of the agreements. All in all, this is a routine public self-financing and the planning of the European Union's support, finally in line with the progress of the project. However, honourable members of the Riigikogu must agree that efforts must be made to speed up the implementation of the project. Question 4: How much money has been spent so far and for what purpose? Between 2014 and 2018, 32.1 million euros have been incurred, the most important cost sources have been the construction of a tram line between Rail Baltic Ülemiste terminal and Tallinn Airport and the preparation and pre-designing of county plans. I would like to add that the detailed overview of the costs incurred for the Rail Baltic project in 2010-2012 can be found in Annex B to the National Audit Office's report "Financing and implementing the Rail Baltic project in Estonia 2014 to 2019." Question 5: What amount has been allocated to Rail Baltic in the draft state budget for 2020? In the state budget for 2020, we have provided EUR 54.4 million for investments in Rail Baltic related expenditure, including the European Union contribution of EUR 45.12 million and public self-financing. Question 6: Do you see the risk of a significant reduction in the budget for Rail Baltic at the planned deadline? The completion of Rail Baltic is clearly linked to certain financing risks. Since the design and construction of Rail Baltic depends to a large extent on the support of the European Union in accordance with the Baltic States' agreements, it is important that we be able to make rapid and targeted use of the European Union budget and the state budget allocated to the construction of Rail Baltic on the basis of financing agreements. Within the current budget period of the European Union, two further rounds of applications have been planned in the near future, to which we will also submit joint applications from the Baltic States to finance the Rail Baltic project. The deadline for the next call will be February 2020 and the next one will be in the autumn of 2020. The negotiations on the new EU budgetary framework and, as part of this, the draft CEF regulation for the 2021-2027 period are coming to an end. The state of play of the negotiations is rather favourable for Rail Baltic and similar infrastructure projects from the point of view of applying for EU support. The proposed rates of support are comparable to those of the current period. It should be borne in mind that, until the next European Union budgetary framework is agreed, this is a draft which may still be amended during the negotiation process. In this negotiation process, supporting connectivity from the European Union budget is one of the three main common objectives of the Baltic States and is constantly working to achieve this goal. Question 7: Can you give the Riigikogu a guarantee that the funds allocated to Rail Baltic within the framework of the European Union's 2014-2020 budget period will be used in full? What is important is that the establishment of Rail Baltic remains a priority for the whole country. The success of Rail Baltic depends on how ministries, authorities and local authorities can cooperate with each other and with the business and non-profit sectors to achieve the stated objective. Effective work between the Rail Baltic States and the Riga Joint Undertaking is also important. The further involvement of the public in decisions relating to Rail Baltic is certainly also important. I am convinced that we will be able to make effective use of both the existing and the additional instruments that have been applied for in order to build Rail Baltic. It is important that the Rail Baltic project progresses according to the agreed timetable, in particular the effective design of the main railway route is needed in order to be able to move forward with rail construction. Together with all the countries and the European Commission, we are trying to find ways of making the project governance scheme more effective. At the same time, such discussions must not lead to new delays. In the coming months and years, the focus must be on the rapid completion of design activities and on the continuation of construction works. As early as 2017, the first railway road between Rail Baltic and Tallinn Airport was completed in Estonia. At the end of November the cornerstone was laid on the construction site of the first Rail Baltic main route, Saustinõmme viaduct, which is also part of the construction of the Tallinn ring road. Rail Baltic Estonia OÜ and AS RB Rail have agreed on a specific timetable for the rapid and targeted use of the grants received so far, which will allow construction work to be carried out by object when the priority sections of the main project are completed. The plan covers the construction of 27 bridges and overpasses, as well as the construction of seven ecoviaducts and the conversion of ca 20 crossing points with communications. In addition to the above, work will start in 2022 on the construction of both Ülemiste and Pärnu passenger terminal. I therefore hope for the rapid progress of the Rail Baltic project. In his introduction, the representative of the good interviewers also spoke about how the sums had decreased. If I understand correctly, Mr Taavi Rõivas pointed out that the RES provided EUR 258.5 million for the years 2017 to 2020 - including both CEF and the state budget. Honourable Riigikogu, I can say the order of magnitude, not the amount of money with the precision of a cent, but I have asked for these figures to be taken out for today's inquiry. The country's budgetary strategy is known to be reviewed every spring. This amount was 217 million in the state budget for the years 2018 to 2021, i.e. a reduction. In 2019-2022, an increase of 150 million was made, 393 million. And now, if you take the last budget strategy, this is for the years 2020 to 2023, this amount should be about 385 million, which is considerably higher than that referred to by the representative of the heirs. Yes, it was in the budget strategy for the years 2017 to 2020 but today it is in the budget strategy for the years 2020 to 2023 when we are talking about the CEF and the state budget funds, much higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U30	Thank you, Prime Minister. You have questions too. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U31	Thank you. Good answer, you stressed on several occasions that Rail Baltic is a priority. While implementing the priority so much over stones and stumps, it is fear that you will succeed in promoting less priority projects. You say the total volume of the project has not been reduced, but no one asked about it. It makes sense that the construction costs of the project do not decrease. However, when looking at the facts and looking at your answers, we also received assurances that there had been a significant reduction in the budget allocation. Perhaps when you said that 32.1 million out of the 258.5 million granted for the period 2017 to 2020 have been used up, or 11% of the project's budget, and next year, which is the last of these four years, another 54.4 million will be exploited, this shows that in the last four years, if taken up this year, real use has been reduced three times as compared to the 2016 budget strategy. I ask you as Hannes Võrno asked Peeter Oja in this famous Sketch of "Crissie Radio": where did the money go?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U32	Thank you. First of all, it goes over the rocks and stumps. I think it is undoubtedly the biggest international investment in the Estonian country that has restored independence. It covers several countries, not just the three Baltic States. As I said, Poland and, as we know, Finland have shown interest in this. It covers several budget periods of the European Union and certainly covers very serious public debates on the impact of Rail Baltic on the environment and how this route is seen in three counties, Harju, Rapla and Pärnu counties. If we're talking about rocks and stumps here, I'm not going to throw that stone back into your cabbage field or say that maybe it was too soon and not prepared for the end of 2016 with this whole Rail Baltic theme. But it is clear that, in terms of the timetable, I think that you and I both know this has been a desire to move much faster. Today we see that there may be a certain backwardness here, and I also said that I think there is a need to improve the governance structure. We'll come back to that on February 7. Now the cost of construction. I think it's actually changing all the time. We have to take into account that design has been specified at all times. At one point we will reach the final projects at the preliminary project stage, and at one point we will reach the construction procurement. To say today that Rail Baltic will pay exactly that amount for a cent in the next seven or eight years is certainly very light-handed and I will not do that. You're bringing out 258.5 million. I understand that your complaint was that these investments will be planned less and less in the country's budget strategy. My answer to you is that the last budget strategy envisages a much greater amount than 258.5 million, I said it was about 370 million. I think it's just because we've come to a phase with a lot of projects where we can go on with construction procurement. This was shown by the very cornerstone of the Saustinõmme viaduct. We both know that there are about 17 other objects that can be launched hopefully in the next few years. You say this year is the last year of this period. This is not quite true because, according to European Union rules, the money provided for the project can also be used with a certain coverage for the next budget period, up to two years. You ask what real use of money has been like. I answered in my questioning what this real use has been like. Today, our focus is first and foremost that we can move on to the next 17 objects as soon as possible on Estonia's 213 km long route, start the construction procurement and start the construction as soon as possible. That's the short answer. Now, if you ask me what's been done then, and you say it goes over the rocks and stumps. The last big deal we had when we met in Riga was this, I think it was also one of your prime ministers' positions at the time, that we were doing Rail Baltic in two directions, so there are two lines. In the meantime, there was a fear that one Baltic State, not Estonia, would only want to do a one-way or one-rail track-pair section within 15 to 16 km. It is a pleasure to say that this issue has been resolved, and today we see that there is a railway with two rail lines in the three Baltic States for the whole route.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U33	Thank you. Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U34	Thank you very much. You have just given a very encouraging speech, but yet we received a letter from about 500 people in the Parliament's mailbox this morning, including cultural figures and people from the Tartu region who think that this project should be stopped. I think a large part of them are also following today's session. Could you please tell them why this project needs to be carried out on time and at the right pace?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U35	Thank you. As I replied throughout the inquiry, I think this moment is historic for Estonia. Historical in the sense that a very large part of the money still comes from the European Union. I would stress, and this is also stated in the Coalition Agreement, that if the percentages of own contribution and CEF or European Union funding remain in a comparable order of magnitude to today, this means that the European Union is still financing us to a very large extent. As a result, we get a good internal connection, we restore the railway in the Tallinn-Pärnu direction, and I think that there will be more stops than Raplas alone, as we know, at this stage of the project, there is a further 10 to 11 stops that can be created. In addition, we can get a quick connection between Tallinn and Riga, between Tallinn and Kaunas and, of course, as I said, we can connect to Central Europe. In addition, I would like to point out that it is not at all a minor issue, that it is also important that we be able to activate freight train traffic, freight transport and the economy in this direction. I think this is also important for Rail Baltic. Today's calculations say that around 2035 the situation is about that the Via Baltica, which, after all, is not yet ready, can be routed to the railway at 900-1000 hits, perhaps even a little more. This automatically means calmer and safer traffic, but also more environmentally friendly traffic. If we take out last summer's SEI reports, we will see that it also highlights the achievement of climate goals, the development of rail connections, including the development of Rail Baltic. I think they're really big pluses anyway. As I said in answering your first and second questions, I believe that Rail Baltic was, is and will remain more than just a high-speed rail. I said that this is a dream of a Europe that is both mentally and physically connected. And what's to deny here is a certain aspect of security, military mobility. So these are the pluses. When it comes to the other side's opinion, you can hear that this project is taking a huge amount of resources, are we so rich as to finance it? These threats have also been mentioned by the National Audit Office in its latest report: how is it financed and is it known to the end how expensive it can be for the Estonian taxpayer? Of course, in the case of a project as big as Taavi Kõivas said, I don't think it's gonna go well. That goes for the future, too. I believe there are quite a few stumbling points that we may be left behind. But the question is whether we want to unite the three Baltic States for an overall length of 870 km or whether we do not want to. I think that would make sense. So I think these are, in short, the basic pluses.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U36	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U37	Thank you. Prime Minister! In your previous reply, you mentioned that a local stop for the Rail Baltica route was also planned for 10 to 11 local stops. As the former parish elder of Rae, I know that there were no local stops in the project at first. We were one of those who stood very clearly for putting local stops on the route, and the reason was simple: I believe it is very important, especially in regional policy terms, that comfortable corridors and mobility opportunities be created within the country as well. Today's trains also show that train traffic is popular and convenient. It is also environmentally friendly and helps to meet our climate targets. But as far as I know, the construction of local stops is currently open, so there is no funding back there. My question is: what is your personal position and what is the position of today's government? You said that Rail Baltic is a priority for Estonia. But are local stops for Rail Baltic also a priority for the government? And what is your plan to finance the construction of these stops and the purchase of local trains? I think it's right that when Rail Baltic is finished, the local stops will be ready and the local trains will be running. It should not be that we expect them for another 10 to 20 years. What is the position of the government and yours?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U38	Thank you for this question. Yes, it is true that at the moment, it has not been decided what specific stops will be on the route. As I said, it is possible to build more 10 to 11 stops. Their cost must be borne by our wallet rather than by our taxpayer's purse, rather than by the European Union's subsidies. There are also quite different opinions about how much this is all going to cost. There are those who say that it may cost you to make access routes, etc. millions. Some say maybe 3, 4, 5 million, some offer more. It all depends on a specific local stop. If you ask for my opinion, as I said, I think this railroad should also help to improve rail traffic within Estonia. I think that there should be more stops between Tallinn and Pärnu than Rapla alone. When do we set it up? This must be established in the coming years during the preparatory work. At least my attitude is very positive. I am not telling you here in the Riigikogu Chair that there must definitely be 10 stops or 8 stops, but there must be. If you ask me, what is the attitude towards extra trains? I am certainly not telling you now that this decision was made on Rail Baltic. It wasn't done. But today's government has shown a pretty bold attitude towards improving today's internal rail connection. Let's take the last year's decision, which today's government has made, and it has been decided to acquire six new trains. If I'm not mistaken, now the country has about 38, and six more trains will come in the next few years. I think it points in a positive direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U39	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U40	Thank you. Good waitress! I fully agree that Rail Baltic is one of the most important infrastructure projects. We all know very well that the success of the project depends on the quality of the project managers and the management of the project. There's been a lot of shifts in Rail Baltic top executives lately. There's been a lot of moves. Perhaps you will open up what has been the cause of this and what is going to be done to ensure that the quality of governance in the future is of the highest quality.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U41	Thank you very much for asking the right question. Yeah, we can see that. When we talk about specific personalities, many have really left and there have been new arrivals. But I think that we should approach this issue a little more broadly than just, I do not know, for example, by restricting ourselves to the issue of the members of the RBR Board. And what I also answered to you in your inquiry was this governance structure or the new impact analysis of the governance structure should be before the ministers, infrastructure ministers and prime ministers of the three Baltic States on 7 February. Today we see that each country has its own Rail Baltic company. In addition, RBR, which has its head office in Riga, has branches in Lithuania and Estonia. I think that we must also have very close contact with the European Commission here, precisely in terms of how to make the governance structure as effective as possible, so that it is not that one is saying that it is not done and therefore we cannot take off, and the other is saying the opposite. So, in my opinion, the need for reform in the governance structure needs to be seen more broadly. And knowing the reasons for some people leaving, I can say that they have been linked precisely to the fact that bureaucracy has been enormous and the time to focus on the result on a daily basis has been too little.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U42	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U43	Thank you. Prime Minister! In interviews with you and Minister of Economic Affairs Taavi Aasa, the proportion of funding for Rail Baltic construction has emerged as a topic in the last month. It is currently known to be 85 from the European Union and 15 from the Member States. It is also known that MFF negotiations are still under way, the number of net contributors is decreasing as a result of the British decision, and even the theoretical possibility has been thrown into the air that the proportion could be 50:50 if I remember correctly from your interview. The European Union's climate objectives seem to favour a railway project, but what, in your opinion, is more likely to happen: is there a distribution of 85: 15, or is it that the Member States' obligation is increasing?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U44	Thank you. I don't think I've said a new proportion is going to be 50:50. But perhaps I have stated the principle that if it is, for example, 50: 50, which I can also say in this honourable Riigikogu speech chair, then I think the sentence in the coalition agreement must be taken into account, according to which the entire Rail Baltic project must be reviewed. In fact, the same principle has also been agreed between the three Baltic States. Once again, what was asked by Annely Akkermann, I said that a very large part of the money comes from the European Union, and this amount is a very large sum of money. I think that, at the moment, we have to consider a project of over 1.5 billion on Estonia's soil. If this distribution were 50: 50, the amount of own contribution would change completely, and I think we should look at this project with a whole new look. The input of the Riigikogu is certainly very important, because then these amounts, the volume of investments, are quite different. Do we really think it would make sense to establish such a connection? If you ask which is more likely to be 85: 15 or 50: 50, then you will understand that the MFF negotiations are still ongoing. You described it pretty well, let it be Britain's departure, let it be the number of net contributors. The wishes of Estonia are now quite far from the position taken by the previous President-in-Office, Finland, in terms of the overall budget. Today it's a very big prophecy. What I can say is that I am working to ensure that these proportions remain as close as possible to those that are in the current budget financing period. That is what I have said at all my meetings, whether these are meetings of friends of cohesion policy, be these meetings of the European Council, and I will continue this line. I think this is very important to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U45	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Rail Baltic will be completed by the deadline and the euro has been said by your party partner, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Taavi Aas, at the meeting of the State Budget Control Committee at the end of last year, and he has been proudly quoted by the Central Week. I don't know what you're worried about, or Asa's just a little wrestling. But I'd rather share that concern for Rail Baltic and I'm on your side in that sense. In Pärnumaa there was a development conference with such a peculiar title as 'Will it be under the railroad or on the railroad? '. There, among other things, I proposed that, in view of the importance, uniqueness and scale of the project, as a result of what you have repeatedly emphasised, the Baltic Prime Ministers should take personal political responsibility for this project in order to overcome the bottlenecks in management. Without any mischief in mind, otherwise these problems will not be solved. And here's the question: as Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia, are you prepared to take political responsibility and resign if the Rail Baltic project fails?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U47	I don't know if you want to wait until what year? And see if Rail Baltic is ready or not? One year of completion of Rail Baltic is based on the data of the National Audit Office. However, if we rely on our wishes, the ministry, according to the authorities, is the year number for the moment, I don't know, 2026. And in the end, it's definitely what happens in life that the church lands in the middle of the village. But yeah, that's it. What am I saying? If I ask whether I am willing to take responsibility for this project being under the constant eye of the Prime Ministers, the answer is yes. This was also my proposal at the last meeting in Riga. If we arrange for the Prime Ministers to see the Baltic Prime Ministers to meet regularly at least three times a year, but there are certainly more meetings in different forms, then at least three times this topic must be on the table all the time, but more often. That's what I've proposed. However, I have not proposed to any of the Baltic Prime Ministers that if Rail Baltic was not completed by 2026 we would immediately resign in corpore. In the meantime, there are several elections and the people of Estonia can make their own decisions there, so let's not get ahead of things and let the highest power, the people, make these political choices. But, yes, we have to deal with this day-to-day monitoring and, in a good way, resolving matters. In Riga, too, it was specifically known what this governance problem was. Both the RBR Board and the members of the Supervisory Board were discussed there in order to find these solutions more quickly, especially in the case of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U48	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U49	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I have been approached by several landowners with concerns about the transfer of land. They are not concerned because their land is being disposed of, but rather because the State is exercising a stronger right, a stronger right, in the sense that even if the owners agree that the land that falls under the route corridor must be disposed of, the State does not want to deal with secondary requirements in parallel. Whether it is a business plan or an investment in land next to the same route corridor, be it a tourist operator or someone else. There's still a message about how this is gonna happen. If a country has a special interest in solving these problems, then a citizen would not want to go to court against a country with one topic, for example in the context of land transfer, but would like these issues and cases to be resolved as a whole. How's the situation today?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U50	Thank you. I am certainly not ready to comment on all these cases of disposals here in the Riigikogu speech chair today and say what smoke has been right and what smoke has not been right. But the general principle really should be what I think you have also pointed out in the question, say, of your own. Here, the state has a great interest in using the arm or, let's say, the power position, and I do not, of course, consider it right. If there have been cases like this, they definitely need to be reviewed. This problem has also been the case, for example, as the current issue of linking with the previous one in relation to the management issue. Estonia has completed some preliminary projects and said that huge amounts of time have been invested and compromises have been found in private sector or, let's say, private land with households. And then when RBR, the head office says that there should be a change of route from here to here, I don't know, for example, it's speeding up, which means maybe once again with someone else, with another household, a tremendously long negotiation, it's rather the place where we've said that we're fixing today's position and going on. It's gonna take time for us to open up so much. What can I say to you? If you know something, I am certainly willing to listen to specific cases and to contribute to finding the best possible solution for the citizens of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U51	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I have listened to your answers and I understand that you have confirmed that the previous financing decisions for the years 2017 to 2020 have managed to spend 11% of the money allocated. So this year, it's going to be a little bit more dynamic. There are 54 million in the budget, as I understand it, and all these projects, terminals, sections etc. will certainly continue, but real construction will probably get a little boost. You mentioned the Saustinõmme viaduct on which the cornerstone was laid. What are the real construction sites that are going to start this year after Saustinõmme viaduct?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U53	Thank you. In total, there are potential objects to do, like Saustinõmme, I think 17. We certainly cannot say that these 17 objects will be operational this year. Let's just say that our aim is to work today so that construction procurement can take place there as soon as possible in the coming years. It is, in fact, once again linked to the same governance structure that I spoke about in response to Mr Toomas Kivimägi or which he touched. As I said, we will be reunited on February 7th to review the governance structure. If you ask about the exact investments in 2020 that are planned, if you want, I can send you a specific breakdown separately. That's what I do.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U54	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U55	Honourable Chairman! Good Prime Minister! Several local government leaders have suggested that there should be intermediate stops on the Rail Baltic Estonian route in addition to Tallinn and Pärnu. Are these intermediate stops planned to be established, and is the money needed for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U56	Thank you. But that's what I said right before, Mr. Gridship asked about it. Well, then I'll answer you again. This money must come specifically from the state budget. The stops that we can build are 10 to 11. I think that the general principle should take a very positive view of them. I do not want to say that one hundred percent for everyone, but I think it will improve traffic within Estonia. In the coming years, we must, in particular, choose which stops to set up and which ones not to be set up, and that also means additional funding.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U57	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U58	Thank you. On Friday's radio show, Taavi Aas said to the host's concern that Rail Baltic would be more expensive than predicted, that there was nothing, that the first purchases had not become more expensive. However, he had to know that according to the audit, the CEF1 budget has already been estimated at 60 million and that the company itself is forecasting the entire project to increase from 1.3 billion to 1.7 billion already. Please tell me if anyone takes this issue seriously in the government and if there is any feedback that someone is still monitoring it and predicting precisely the costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U59	Yes, thank you. The answer is, of course, take it seriously. After all, we have studied the audit of the National Audit Office 'Financing and implementing the Rail Baltic project in Estonia in 2014 The fact that the project has become more expensive at the moment is true. After all, we have not completed all the final projects of all objects or of all, say, sections, not to mention that construction procurements have been opened or carried out. It is very early today to say exactly what this amount is going to be. Well, you can imagine that if we are talking about a ten-year or seven-eight-year perspective here today, it is very difficult, if not impossible, to say in concrete terms, the amounts of money paid out with the precision of the euro. I think it is important that we be able to maintain the proportion of funding to which Mrs Urve Tiidus was concerned in the same order of magnitude that it is in today's European Union budget. But if you ask if we take this seriously, of course we take it seriously. Anyway! And I think that at one point when we see that the percentage of co-financing changes, I think that there should be a completely open debate both in the Riigikogu and in the government, that what we will do in the end is that when it changes drastically, i.e. it is no longer 85: 15, but it is something very, very different.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U60	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U61	Thank you, chairman of the meeting. Prime Minister! One of the reasons why many of the Rail Baltic projects are afraid not to say it is that the route will be built using outdated vision and technology of the last century. What can be answered? Can we be sure that the best research and development techniques will be used and included in the project implementation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U62	Thank you. I believe that if we fantasize a little here in the Riigikogu, we would certainly find faster associations of three countries. There are companies that advertise hyperloop and say that it takes minutes, I don't know that to pass through the Tallinn-Helsinki lines, Tallinn-Berlin, etc. The question is what is as realistic as possible, including as realistic as possible in terms of cost. A lot has also been said here about why the Rail Baltic connection is not immediately made from hydrogen, which is very environmentally friendly. Well, today, so big connections based on hydrogen are still in the test phase. Will the best knowledge of the moment be included? I'm sure they will. There are certainly many who say that the environment will be far more untouched than to lift Rail Baltic from the ground, I don't know, on the pillars, on the second floor. I'm sure it's structurally possible, it's technically possible. But I think the cost of this solution is quite different than today's approach allows. I believe that these best solutions, in terms of environment, operationality, speed and safety, will be considered and considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U63	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U64	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Prime Minister! You mentioned that one of the great goals of Rail Baltic is to move more environmentally friendly. I agree with that one hundred percent. The Rail Baltic Environmental Impact Assessment report makes it clear that with the railway connection, 2 + 1 roads would be sufficient in Estonia, as both Rail Baltic and the four-line road, the last one even more than Rail Baltic, require a huge natural resource, its use. This is one of the things that worries those concerned about the environment. Don't you think that the latest statements by the Minister of Finance and Taavi Asa may slightly undermine our position in Europe, which is still heading towards climate neutrality, if we want to go down the so-called yesterday road and cover Estonia with asphalt?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U65	Thank you. First of all, Rail from Baltic. Good questioner, you understand very well that this 366 km, which in the case of Estonia is spoken of in relation to the fact that 2 + 2 sections of road have not been built, is definitely a different size in one third, but basically one direction is the Tallinn road. Tallinn-Tartu and Tallinn-Narva still remain. Now, if you take the connection between Tallinn and Pärnu, there are already 2 + 2 sections, but there are also 2 + 1 sections on the way from Tallinn to Pärnu and from Pärnu to Tallinn, for example, on the way through Sauga to Tallinn. It is unlikely that existing cuttings will be radically rebuilt. You are asking whether we should change our position on the basis of environmental objectives. You have pointed out what has been said about both Martin Helme and Taavi Aas 2 + 2 roads, in any case, I support both of them. It is not the case that we are only looking at climate objectives. I am also a very big environmental friend and an environmental fan myself, but we also have to look at economic goals, we also have to look at social objectives. And in my opinion, climate policy is actually about finding a balance. It is clear that, very slowly, we have been able to build basic connections in Estonia in a secure and fast way, especially in a secure way. This is a very serious concern in Estonia, on the sections of Tallinn, Pärnu, Tallinn, Tartu and Tallinn. I think that, in the case of basic connections, the effort to achieve this, as you said, that the 2 + 1 road would be completed, is not deplorable. I've also said in a radio show that I certainly wouldn't disapprove of a piece of this 366 km coming from a 2 + 1 segment. But in most of us we should still aim to build these existing 366 kilometres out of the 2+2 highway. This adds a great deal to all the criteria that I have mentioned. That's our big problem. We all travel very often in all three directions, and we know that traffic has rather increased. And let's be honest, maybe the most cardinal or drastic one is the Via Baltica. I think the first days of the 1990s have been discussed how we are building Via Baltica, but today it has been 30 years and we are still building it. So, yeah, I think we're gonna have to adjust the pace. What the Minister of Finance has come up with in relation to the PPP idea could be an alternative and a very realistic alternative, which would provide an opportunity to speed up the construction of decent roads. I think it's important.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U66	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U67	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! First of all, I wanted to help you answer one of the above questions a little bit. This is where they asked if we were using the most modern technology. One of the basics of the technology world is that if you don't buy anything today in the hope that tomorrow something more modern and better will be sold, you'll never buy it because tomorrow there's something even more exciting in sight. So in this respect, I support you. But actually, I wanted to ask you about the problem of leadership. As an observer, it seems to me that the big concern is that Estonians, Latvians and Lithuanians will strike the nation out, and the doubt or reality is that the blanket will be dragged to its side. Has it not occurred to anyone to ask the European Commission for help so that someone from outside the Baltic States, someone who could not be suspected of having special interests in Estonia, Latvia or Lithuania, is put in charge of this project?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U68	Thank you. I certainly do not think that we should choose the head of the company on the basis of nationality. The previous RBR leader, as far as I know, was not Estonian, Latvian or Lithuanian, but it meant nothing. The one before that was again. So I guess that doesn't add up much. This is not a bad idea, if it was, of course, your idea of involving the European Commission more. That's what we've always done. The European Commission's representative, Mr Hololei, also attended the meeting in Riga. I gave an example earlier that there was a Baltic country that thought that there could be a railway section with a single pair of rails within a distance of about 15 to 16 kilometres. Here we have to say very much thanks to the European Commission in particular, their explanations and the reasons why the three Baltic States have agreed that the whole railroad will come with two sets of rails were very important. This 15 km section would be the weakest link in the chain, and this Baltic State agreed to do as agreed. The message that there is a need to improve and improve the management of the project has also come from the European Commission. I hope that, in the first half of this year, Estonia will be holding the chairmanship of the Baltic Assembly today, and also in the Council of Prime Ministers, we will be able to increase some activity on this matter and make certain changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U69	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U70	Thank you. Mr. George Ratas! I would like to clarify a little bit the proportion of funding for this project. As we know, when the CEF, or the Connecting Europe Facility, was created in its time, 85%: 15% was taken as a clear principle. That was the principle. I still clearly remember these major struggles and debates with the Regional Development Commission in order to get more money from the Regional Development Fund so that this proportion is maintained. My question is this: do you now have any information that this principle will be changed in the coming years, even though it was initially very clearly set out in principle in the functioning of the Connecting Europe Facility?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U71	Thank you. I've answered that. We are dealing with the next budget period today. I can't say here in front of you that it's locked specifically. Not locked. I know today what the proposal is on the table and what it is working on, and it is, as I said in response to the question, rather favourable or based on today's situation. But with the budget negotiations, as long as everything has not been agreed upon, it has not been agreed either. We are debating the volume of the overall budget at the moment. There is no agreement on this, there are four or five formal proposals. Clearly, this position, which you have called, we defend, is our starting point. But if you ask if there is an agreement between the 27 countries on this matter, it is not today, as far as I know. But the assumption that this agreement will be reached is more favourable for us today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U72	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U73	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! I remember that when this government came to Europe as a rule, it is common for ministers to go to Europe with the talk that they are bringing income to the Estonian state, then we ended up having a Minister of Finance who announced that he was planning to go to Europe with a plan that Rail Baltic funding could be changed in such a way that Estonia could not make a cent of it, that is to say, to cause quite a lot of damage to the Estonian state and the Baltic states as a whole. A story even appeared in the Eesti Päevaleht. Apparently, he was sent home from Europe just as wisely. That's good! But since you mentioned the Tallinn Tunnel in the course of the same debate here, and this connection seemed to me to be happy, I would ask how it was going. The government seems pretty unattractive on this subject. A colleague has just visited, a warm relationship has been restored. Are we going to build a tunnel now?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U74	Thank you. I certainly do not agree with your criticism of the Minister for Finance regarding the fact that he wanted to turn everything upside down and so on. We discussed this issue very seriously, just like the whole coalition agreement in the form of a coalition. I think the Rail Baltic without a joke was about three-four-five times on the table. We took this seriously, reviewed all the international agreements that Estonia has entered into, etc. I don't know what Eesti Päevaleht wrote at the time, I know what Eesti Päevaleht wrote a few days ago. The free press does write interesting things. Now from the tunnel. I don't recall saying a very long story about the tunnel in response to this question, but I'm glad you brought it up. I remember the last local government election campaign, the way you were standing at the seaside, and you looked at the distance, and you said, "Let this tunnel come here." Relations with Finland are good, work is good. The Finnish Prime Minister came here, we talked about the idea of a tunnel. Most importantly, I think that is still what I also asked the Finnish side to work on the memorandum that we sent to Finland in September last year during today's government, and to examine it seriously, so that we can move forward with the analyses. They said that since the Finnish government has changed in the meantime, it has taken some time, but that at the beginning of this year they will certainly look at this memorandum in order to make a new positive memorandum. With regard to analyses, I think that the line must be kept that it should be run by two countries, two ministries. I do not want to say at all that we absolutely must not involve the private sector. But in the context or phase of the analysis, leadership should rather be done this way now. In the future, we can look forward. So I'd say this tunnel thing goes positive. Can't say anything bad here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U75	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U76	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! On behalf of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, we will certainly not be sad if the rate of funding changes and there is a reason, according to the Coalition Agreement, to take this project apart again and critically review it. There was a brief discussion of this in advance, but I would ask whether you agree with the view that in the earlier phases of the project, there have been some hasty and unthinkable actions during the previous administration, which have also caused some of today's problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U77	Thank you. Well, that was actually my answer to Mr. Clothes, that maybe they did make some decisions too hasty. But there's nothing to blame for the government before the day before, because they just took off with this big project, and that's the tricky thing to deny. I also mentioned earlier the questioner's idea that the coalition agreement really does say that if the proportion of funding changes, I said it during the previous government, and I say it today too, I do not see the possibility that we will not discuss it again with the government and the Riigikogu. These are still so large that we need to think about what we will do in this case. On the one hand, there are plans to make gravel-coated roads dust-free, on the other hand, construction of Tallinna-Tartu, Tallinna-Narva, Tallinna-Pärnu road 2 + 2 as a runway. In addition, the building of the tunnel mentioned by the opposition politician, Mr Michal, and also Rail Baltic will be very forceful. A balance must be found.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U78	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! We've been talking a lot about funding here, and now it's getting really out of hand. But I'll finish by asking you something simpler, maybe we'll talk about construction. On the website of Rail Baltic Estonia, questions and answers indicate that in autumn 2020 Rail Baltic construction will actually begin. Is he gonna? Is that how it's gonna go?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U80	Thank you. On the basis of your question, we have even raised the pace, fortified it. As early as 2019, Saustinõmme's cornerstone was laid. Large construction machines were present: buckets, asphalters, and all of them. If you go back in time, the tram route to Tallinn Airport has actually been made within the framework of the Rail Baltic project. I know that there has been a lot of soil research on this route, so in addition, design preparations have been made, all of which have been through the funding of this project. If we look at last year, for example, what Mr Metsoja asked about here, then we can talk about acquiring lands, administering acquisitions, over one million, 1.3 million. Let's look at the construction of rail crossings, and it's already gone over EUR 700000. It's still a lot of money. So in this sense, it can be said that the seed is germinated in 2019. But I think you want to know if we can move on with the next projects. This has to do with what I actually said to Mr Sõerdi. I will pass on the list of requests for a specific moment that we want to implement by 2020, and I ask that it be sent to you, too, Mr Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U81	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U82	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! The answers given here make it look like you're having a really funny time. For us, however, the issue is serious and it is also important that this money, as you have said here, has only been spent 11% of the amount of the money that you have managed to spend in 2017 to 2020. We know that the new budget will come up with European money. Your coalition partner here said that they are basically not sad if this project is cancelled because there isn't enough money. But my question is this: will you do everything to ensure that, first of all, the money that is earmarked for Rail Baltic can be used for the completion of the railway and, secondly, will you take the necessary steps to continue to be available in Europe for the funding of this project?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U83	I'll be right back. I understand that political reality. And I also know that there are many in Estonia who do not support Rail Baltic that is true, it is not a secret. Your own party partner referred to this letter written by many Estonians or Estonians. The coalition agreement is a compromise. You bring out what Mr Pohlak said, but basically what he said is right. We have also agreed with the three Baltic States that if the percentage of funding changes, this is a new situation. I do not know, Mrs Urve Tiidus mentioned in her question whether I said or had heard from elsewhere that the proportion could be 50:50. This means hundreds of millions of higher costs for Estonia. In this situation, we must, in any case, discuss again what we are going to do. This is a radically different situation. If you're asking me if I'm trying to get this money to go to the right place today, the answer is yes, I am. If you ask me if I am working to ensure that the proportion of Rail Baltic funding remains as close as possible today, then the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U84	Thank you. It seems that there are no more questions for the Prime Minister. It is now possible to open negotiations if there is a wish to speak. But I guess there's no wish. Let us close the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U85	Now we are going to agenda item 2 - Keit Pentus-Rosimudus, Erkki Keldo, Jürgen Ligi, Urve Tiidus, Jüri Jaanson, Signe Kivi, Eerik-Niiles Krossi, Mart Võrvalaadi, Heiki Kranich, Vilja Toomasti, Urmas Kruuse, Madis Milling, Siim Kallas, Heidy Purga, Signe Riisalo, Maris Lauri, Hanno Pevkuri and Yoko Alender - a discussion of the 20 November 2019 debate on the transition to climate neutrality and the preparation of the technology jump. As the representative of the heirs, I would like to ask Yoko Alender, member of the Riigikogu, to speak here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U86	Good chairman of the sitting! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The question is about the transition to climate neutrality. Halting climate change and reducing carbon pollution will certainly be one of our greatest challenges in the next decade, both internationally and individually for each country. Estonia's choice is to be among direction indicators or tail joggers. We have recently received conflicting messages from the government, whether the transition to a climate-neutral economy by 2050 is a goal in Estonia or not. Achieving the climate-neutrality objective requires clear economic and energy policy choices to be made already. In particular, the technology leap to reduce carbon pollution concerns the replacement of oil shale energy with environmentally friendly solutions. Let it be said as a marginal note that the environmental benefits of Rail Baltic also come to a large extent only when our electricity no longer comes from oil shale. Changes in transport and energy saving are also important. Investing in fossil fuels and their production capacity is becoming increasingly questionable internationally. In fact, we can no longer say that we only have some separate climate policy, monetary and economic and climate policies are increasingly one. Among other things, the finance ministers of the European Union have agreed on a common message from the European Union, which was passed on at the climate summit in Madrid in December. Priority will be given to financing development banks for the development of solid fossil fuel projects. The fact that Mark Carney, the former Head of the UK Central Bank, recently became a UN climate advisor is certainly one step in this direction. Consequently, we would like concrete answers from the Prime Minister to the following questions. What are the government's main positions, timetables with milestones, financing needs and sources of coverage in the transition to a climate-neutral economy by 2050? What measures are planned to be taken to ensure Estonia's energy security and security of electricity supply in order to achieve climate neutrality? What is the position of the representative of the state to operate the existing production assets of Eesti Energia until the end of their useful life and to mitigate risks in a situation where the price of CO2 does not decrease and the price of electricity in the Estonian price area does not increase? What investments does the state want to make as owner in the new production assets of Eesti Energia and how are they compatible with the objective of climate neutrality? Does the government intend to participate in the construction of the oil shale pre-refinery plant by the state? What is the financial volume of these investments, the sources of financing, the pay-back period with market prices and regulatory assumptions and the deadline for the deployment of the production equipment? All the important questions! Next: What measures have the government planned in the process of transition to climate neutrality to support and ensure the regional development of Ida-Virumaa, taking into account the needs for the conversion of oil shale workers there? What European Union support measures does the government see in order to support the transition to climate neutrality and the technological leap that is needed for this? To what extent does the government plan to direct the European Union's next seven-year budget to support the transition to climate neutrality? Last but not least, what future energy solutions does the government consider to be even prospective to Estonia and what needs to be done to ensure that these solutions can be implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U87	Thank you. Please respond to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U88	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable heirs, thank you very much for your questioning. We have just finished the debate on the Rail Baltic project, and I am sincerely pleased that we are continuing with an issue of immeasurably important importance to Estonia and the whole world, namely climate, climate neutrality as a goal and the necessary measures. One of these measures, which will help us achieve our goals, is definitely Rail Baltic, which is a fast, environmentally friendly transport link with another Europe based on modern technology. The first question: 'What are the main positions of the government, the timetable with milestones, the need for funding and the sources of cover for the transition to a climate-neutral economy by 2050? ' Here, on the basis of the basic principles of climate policy approved in 2017 in the honourable Chamber of the Riigikogu, Estonia's current long-term goal is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by almost 80% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels, including about 70% by 2030 and 72% by 2040. Estonia's new, higher target for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 is planned to be designed and agreed on the basis of Estonia's needs and foreseeable opportunities for moving towards climate neutrality, on the one hand, and the results of discussions within the European Union on the deadlines for the transition to a climate-neutral economy in the Member States. According to the positions agreed by the Government of the Republic in October 2019, Estonia will in principle support the establishment of a long-term climate neutrality target across the European Union by 2050 if it is supported by adequate transitional measures and taking into account the specificities and different baselines of Member States and sectors. Estonia considers it important that Member States have sufficient flexibility to decide on their own sectoral targets, the use of sources of funding for measures and tax decisions to achieve climate neutrality. The transition to climate neutrality should be gradual, paying attention to mitigating the negative social and economic impacts of change. Different geographical and socio-economic conditions must be taken into account. In the transition to a climate-neutral economy, it is important to ensure the mobility of people and goods, the security and security of energy supply through a stronger integration of the single European Union energy market, as well as the flexibility of the various cooperation mechanisms. Cooperation at international level is key to ensuring that all countries make a full contribution to the objectives of the Paris Agreement. In order to accelerate the entry and take-up of new and innovative and economically viable technologies, funding opportunities in different sectors need to be effectively combined in the next EU budget period. Lands and other bio-resources must be used in the best sustainable way possible. It should not be forgotten that raising public awareness is also important. A timetable with milestones, financing needs and sources of coverage towards climate and energy policy targets will be developed as part of the preparation of strategies. The second question is what measures are planned to take to ensure Estonia's energy security and security of electricity supply in order to achieve climate neutrality. Future activities related to the energy use of electricity, heating and heating, transport and housing are described in the Energy Development Plan 2030 approved by the Government of the Republic on 20 October 2017. The plan sets out the objectives related to Estonia's energy economy and possible measures to achieve them. To ensure energy security, the main activity of the state is to ensure cross-border connections to electricity and gas supply and to ensure the supply of liquid fuels and gas in Estonia as stipulated in the requirements. It must be ensured that heat production opportunities are available to cover base and peak loads, regulation to promote distributed and micro-generation, as well as the energy supply of vital services. From the point of view of security of supply, Estonia must have a continuous supply of energy, which is necessary for the development of electricity generation, for the efficient and efficient transmission of electricity to the needs of the economy, for the provision of gas supply and fuel supply, and for the efficient production of heat energy, as well as for the administrative capacity in the field of energy and for external cooperation. In order to guarantee the security of electricity supply, a long-term view of energy security is being developed to ensure that the Baltic States are connected to the European Union-led synchronous area. Here we must bear in mind the European Union's long-term climate and energy policy objectives, which provide for the gradual decarbonisation of the energy sector without undermining the country's energy security, competitiveness on the world market and security of supply. In the future, the security of electricity supply in Estonia must be ensured by a combination of domestic production capacities and strong interconnections with electricity networks and markets in other EU Member States. The third question: 'What is the position of the Ministry of Finance as the representative of the state for the operation of the existing production assets of Eesti Energia until the end of their useful life and to mitigate risks if the price of CO2 does not decrease and the electricity price of the Estonian price area does not increase? ' The existing production reserves of Eesti Energia include a number of different types of production equipment, including renewable energy-producing equipment, which is completely sustainable in the current market situation and is applied in production up to the end of its useful life. In order to manage any potential market risks associated with production assets, Eesti Energia will carry out various risk assessment transactions as required, the content of which is included in the company's business secrets. Enefit Energia Production AS, a subsidiary of Eesti Energia, is first noted that they are not all in the same position in the current market situation. Based on the characteristics of these devices, they can be divided into three groups. One group consists of the oldest, so-called dust-fired energy blocks, which are operated to a very limited extent under the limited working and derogation provisions of the Industrial Emissions Directive and which have reached the end of their technical lifetime. These energy blocks will be closed within the next year, as their allowed working hours are about to end. The second group consists of energy blocks based on all environmental conditions established in the European Union, which are produced on a periodic basis at best in the current market situation. The third group consists of the most recent fluidized blocks, including those of the Auvere power plant. These plants are constantly operating in the current market situation on the electricity market, although they are burdened either up or down by changes in the market price of electricity. At the moment, there is a particular question about the equipment of the second group, the use of which means, on the one hand, difficulties in accessing the market and covering their own costs, but they have an important role to play in ensuring the security of supply of Estonia with domestic resources. On 5 November 2019 the sole shareholder of Eesti Energia submitted a guide to the board of the company to ensure that, until at least the end of 2023, Estonia's average electricity consumption is covered by electricity generation capacity within Estonia in the amount of 1000 megawatts. In doing so, energy production must clearly comply with the environmental requirements in force. Depending on developments in the Estonian and Nordic energy markets, Elering's annual analysis of security of supply, the results of the ENTSO-E regional survey to be completed in 2020, as well as the de-syncronation project, new decisions can be taken before the end of 2023, bearing in mind existing core production assets. Competitive installations are expected to continue to be used in accordance with the applicable requirements and standards until their lifetime. However, it is likely that the market situation will force the company to close them much earlier. As far as production facilities belonging to the third group are concerned, their dependence on the price of CO2 can be significantly reduced by the use of low-value biomass or wood waste in their fuel mix. On the basis of the information received from the company, we can inform you that this is already being done to a limited extent. I will answer the fourth and fifth questions together. Question 4: "What kind of investment does the owner of the new production assets of Eesti Energia want, and how are they compatible with the objective of climate neutrality? " Question 5: " Will the government consider taking part in the establishment of a pre-refinery for oil shale oil? What is the financial volume of these investments, the sources of financing, the pay-back period with market prices and regulatory assumptions and the deadline for the deployment of the production equipment? " Eesti Energia has announced that the owners' expectations relate to production and assets at several points. Firstly, to ensure security of supply as a producer of electricity and as owner of the electricity distribution system. Secondly, to ensure a competitive diversified electricity generation portfolio that allows for successful operation as a producer of electricity and as a seller in an open market. Thirdly, to develop the capacity to use oil shale gas, biomass and combustible residues in power plants. Fourthly, develop oil production and other ways of high-quality oil shale. Fifthly, reduce the CO2 content of the electricity generation portfolio, target a certain amount of CO2 by 2030. In the process of decarbonisation, the company gradually shifts from electricity generation to co-generation with the aim of reducing CO2 emissions from energy production and increasing the efficiency of primary energy use. Since investments in the development of renewable energy are very capital intensive, the initial public offer (IPO) and listing of shares in Enefit Green AS, a subsidiary of Eesti Energia, are in preparation up to 49%. Given the preparation of IPO, a list of potential investment objects of the company cannot be published, but investments in the development of renewable energy are undoubtedly essential. The last possible investments in oil shale enhancement concern in particular the construction of the new oil shale oil plant and the construction of the so-called pre-refinery plant in Estonia as a joint project of Estonian oil shale producers. However, the owner would certainly like to see their economic sustainability before these projects can be approved. In addition to promoting oil production, it is worth noting that oil production equipment is increasingly going to be used to achieve the objectives of the circular economy. For example, Eesti Energia has already processed the first test batches in its oil plants, and the company plans to start processing plastic waste in the future. No decision has been taken to participate in or make an investment in the construction of the oil shale pre-refinery plant. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Finance have been instructed to analyse by March 2020 whether the State could support or participate in the construction of the oil shale pre-refinery plant and, if so, how. Possible decisions will be taken in spring 2020 in the planning process of the country's budgetary strategy. The following question, No 6: 'What measures has the government planned in the process of transition to climate neutrality to support and ensure the regional development of Ida-Virumaa, taking into account the skills and re-training needs of oil shale workers? ' Estonia supports setting the objective of climate neutrality across the European Union. With a view to 2050, the transition process can use both EU funds and national support measures in the areas of environment, energy, entrepreneurship, the labour market and improving the overall business environment. Regional development measures implemented by the Ministry of Finance also contribute. As the principles and rules for mobilising EU funds for the period 2021+ are still being prepared, only some existing regional development measures, such as the Ida-Virumaa programme, regional initiatives to develop employment and entrepreneurship can be mentioned. In total, more than 50 million euros have been allocated to Ida-Virumaa as regional grants since 2014 for the establishment and development of industrial sites and tourist sites in Estonia and the European Union, for the launch and development of oil shale competence centre and for initiatives that develop regional entrepreneurship. In Ida-Virumaa, there is a need to diversify the region's entrepreneurship and create additional strong economic sectors alongside the energy sector in order to create new jobs and reduce the region's backwardness. Question seven and eight, I will answer them together. 'What European Union support measures does the government see in order to support the transition to climate neutrality and the technological leap? ' The eighth question: 'To what extent does the government plan to direct the European Union's budget for the next seven years to support the transition to climate neutrality? ' The public, public and non-profit sectors must be combined in order to achieve the objectives of the State and to carry out the investments and other activities necessary for it. Public funds must be used to carry out activities in view of the need for these large-scale investments, all available resources must be used, including public revenue, co-financing from relevant European Union funds, environmental impact assessments and, of course,... I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U89	Thank you, Prime Minister. Time really was up, but when you answer your questions, you can tell the things you didn't say. I'd like to ask you a question first on Reuben Kaalepi!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U90	Thank you. Honourable Prime Minister! It is very good that as part of the achievement of climate objectives, the Government of the Republic has started to prepare the electrification of the railway network, which will certainly make passenger train traffic more efficient and cheaper in Estonia. It is also very signicant that important work will come at the same time to restore Haapsalu's rail connection. My question concerns the same trend in the development of the entire national rail network. Namely, could the government also consider restoring other previously closed lines, such as Pärnu-Kõisaküla, Valga-Võru-Piusa, Türi-Paide-Tamsalu or Sonda-Mustvee?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U91	Thank you. I think that is a very good and fundamental question. On the basis of 2000 we have, for some reason for 17 years, been based on the fact that, as far as the development of public transport is concerned, your question is specifically about the development of rail transport, rail traffic is not economically meaningful. There aren't enough people, there aren't enough companies, it costs so much. I think we need to get closer. It is not the subsidised or subsidised public transport of the public sector, if only the economic aspect is taken as the basis, that is costly, but I do not agree with this criticism. I think that actually this direction, which has been taken in recent years, the same line in Tallinn, is correct. I have said that I think it could be extended to Rohuküla to make an important contribution to the development of Hiiumaa. For example, if people go hiking to Hiiumaa on the weekend, it would be nice to take a train to Rohuküla, then take a ferry to Heltermaa and then hike on the island for a few days. But it's taken three or four years. The rice family's cut, which is nice to talk about, is 6.4 kilometres long and costs about 8 million. And if this was now the opening, then I have to be honest with you that I didn't know that, apart from the Koidula border crossing, there is no new or restored railway in Estonia. So what do I say? The thought is bold. I understand that you are not asking about speeding up the existing railway currently, but about restoring the old railways. I'm gonna be honest with you. I'm gonna be honest with you. I do not dare to make the next jump out of this Riigikogu speech chair today, because I know that the Turba-Rohuküla line still requires a lot of commitment, but I'm sure you could think about it. I certainly wouldn't push it off the table. I know that there are even some representatives of the private sector who say that they actually want this railway to be used by the public sector and on the balance sheet so that it can start supporting trade and the movement of people in the region. I think we could easily look at these interesting projects, I think it's very nice. It seems to me that the people of Estonia are rather, I would say, the faith of train traffic.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U92	Thank you. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U93	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Jüri Ratas, it's good to see you in a very good swing. First of all, you've done very well so far. My question applies to the Paris climate agreement. It is widely known that one of the most influential countries in the United States has reported a non-formal withdrawal from the Paris climate agreement. This was already done by President Donald Trump in his election campaign, referring to the large-scale US economy as a reason. What is your personal opinion? If this really turns out to be a formal decision, what are the biggest challenges that the countries that have agreed on a climate agreement have to deal with and what would that mean for Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U94	Thank you for your good word. I think that this statement that if the big economies do not come along, we will not be able to achieve these goals is correct. If that's the way it's gonna be, it's gonna be right. Our argument on this point has been that if we are able to be all of these benchmarks together in the European Union, then maybe more and more big economies will come along with the Paris climate agreement. If the Paris climate agreement is broken down by points, we can see that the European Union has laid the foundations for one particular point: when we talk about climate neutrality, we are fixing 2050. There is no point in talking about the second half of this century, which could be 2051 but maybe 2099. I consider what Europe has done right. Now, from the United States, who you asked about. The answer is that I think we have to do everything we can to get along. I think the UN has done a pretty good job, especially in the last year. This is one of the most important platforms we have in the world. I remember the COP24 conference in Katowice, Poland. The President of Austria said there that he had asked one person to come with him, and that perhaps this person could take the floor. Every country could speak there. And the President of Austria gave a certain time from his speech to a guest named Arnold Schwarzenegger. Mr Schwarzenegger said that if local authorities were not involved, the climate targets and other environmental targets would not be met. I think there's a very big grain of truth in that sense. There are tens of millions of people living in the big cities of the world, I don't know. And this is where I bring the American parallel you asked about. In fact, as far as I know, the governments and states of the United States of America actually make a pretty strong contribution to achieving these goals. So I hope that more and more of the world's big economies will come along with the good initiative that Europe has launched. There's really no other way. This should not be the case, but we often see that if something very drastic happens in the world, then we start moving. We will take the last summer: we have seen that Greenland has started to melt very quickly. We are taking last year's big forest fires in Siberia, and we are taking the current Australian forest fires, it is clear how much it is actually destroying biodiversity and nature. These pictures are very painful, tragic, but I hope they make the world think more and more about these problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U95	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U96	Thank you. I'm gonna take these cities right now. Indeed, cities cover 3% of the land, but they issue 72% of greenhouse gases. This is why the European Commission has come up with the initiative that all of this climate-neutrality should start with cities and, by 2030, the climate-neutrality of 100 European cities will be achieved. 2030 will be in ten years. In fact, as far as I know, the European Commission envisages EUR 100 billion for this. The call for proposals will in principle be opened next year to reach these targets by 2030. What has the government done to ensure that there are some cities in Estonia among these 100 cities? The whole background system must support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U97	Thank you. I honestly don't have the guts to share that information. If so, it is very good, very positive information that it has been agreed to allocate this EUR 100 billion. In general, we know that the next budget for the European Union has not actually been agreed. But if you're saying that something has been arranged separately, then that's great. But, as a country, we are now thinking of a fair transition fund and we are working to ensure that this money comes on the one hand and that, on the other hand, what you have asked about is that aspect of Ida-Viru County is fully taken into account. There is nothing to do, but our transition from oil shale energy to wind, solar and so on to energy requires major investment. I think that the European Commission must look at us here. To be honest, I look forward to finding out about the fund you were talking about. It's a very big fund, 100 billion. Now the question is whether the government should support such ideas within Estonia. I am particularly pleased to hear this question because I remember that it was on 15 May 2006, when 14 or 15 European cities in Tallinn agreed on a European Green Capital Initiative. It became a completely official title in the European Union and was first issued in 2010. It was Stockholm, then came to Hamburg. So in Tallinn we have thought not only about our own courtyard but also about Europe in general. The European Green Capital Initiative is very nice. There are 12 different criteria for assessing the initiative of the European Green Capital. What can the country do here? I remember that not today, not at all yesterday's government, but I think it was the government of the Reform Party who had new trams acquired in Tallinn. The Spanish flag was on them, and many people said they were Spanish trams. These were trams purchased with quota money, and this is a concrete example of contributing to climate projects through the development of public transport. Tallinn, of course, has done a lot, especially recently. Light traffic routes, bus lanes, better access to public transport, all of this is very important and supports good initiatives. But yes, if you say there is such a fund, I promise I will today... [[Kaja Kallas says something about it.]] All right, let's say it's a proposal. I sincerely believe that this should be taken very seriously and not just in Tallinn. I think there are other cities in Estonia where it is possible to try to obtain support from this fund. Anyway, I think it's the right thing to do, and I promise I'll try to find out what the fund is. And I'm sure we could discuss this issue further, and I'm going to say it sincerely.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U98	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U99	Thank you. Prime Minister! If you continue to praise me here, I very much welcome your enthusiasm for the development of rail transport, both for trains and for trams. It is a pleasure to hear that, being a very strong believer in rail transport itself. But I'm gonna go on with the local government. Recently, more specifically last week, the results of the analysis of the feasibility and cost-effectiveness of light rail transport in Harjumaa were presented. It was clearly pointed out that the development of light rail transport is reasonable and cost-effective both within Tallinn and in the surrounding "gold circle" (Viims, Raes, etc.). It must also be taken into account that the European Commission has come up with a European Green Agreement, which says that CO2 needs to be reduced in the transport sector and that one possibility is the development of public transport. When you come back to Tallinn and its nearby trams, it is clear that the neighbouring municipalities of the capital do not have the resources to set up tram lines and drive trams. I would like to know what your position is personal as well as that of the government, whether the state is ready to come to the aid and shoulder to develop light rail transport in Tallinn and its neighbourhood, so that these things can be done together. After all, this would help meet the climate target and encourage the use of public transport.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U100	Thank you. I'll give you a compliment. Mr. Kaalep and you both asked about rail transport. Mr Kaalep asked about the restoration of the rail link, and you asked basically about rail transport, more specifically about the construction of tram routes. I have to say, unfortunately, that in both cases it is a sad fact that they have not been very developed. As I said to Mr Kaalepi, the restoration of independence in Estonia is not very many railways and let us be honest; unfortunately, too much tram traffic has not been expanded. As I said in reply to the previous question, we have actually managed to do the tram line leading to the airport with the support of European Union funding. That's right. When you think about how many tram lines have come to Tallinn, it is more right to say that existing lines have been repaired, reconstructed. Even in Tallinn on the Tartu highway: before there were rails in the middle, now there are more on the road. If you ask me what my position is, then (a) I think that tram traffic pays off, and (b) I think that tram traffic between neighbouring areas and the capital is very reasonable. At the same time, I don't want to pull this enthusiasm off now, but I remember the plans to make a tram in Tallinn ride in the Laagna Canal that leads to Lasnamägi. That's when that channel was built. I remember there's been plans to build a tramroad at the TUT on Järven and Sõpruse Avenue. There's been a lot of plans, their realization hasn't come true. Yes, there has also been talk about the last line in Tallinn, hasn't there? You ask, I understand, about Rae's direction. I think that would be very reasonable. You also said there was a painful place where local governments could hardly have the capacity to build tram tracks. And even if the tramroads could be built, then you also need to buy trams and they cost a lot of money. This investment is therefore large. Could this be carried out as cooperation between the state and local authorities? The answer is yes, you could think about that. I even say that we have an alternative project on the table so that tram traffic can also be introduced in Tartu. I believe that would also be very environmentally friendly. But there must also be financial accounts, financial capacity. So I'm definitely in favour of establishing tram lines. And in order not to say later that I did not mention it, I will also say that there is a very strong interest in it in Harku. In particular, it means Tabasalu, it wants the tram to go there as well. I think it would be worth considering all these opportunities now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U101	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U102	Thank you, President of the sitting. Prime Minister! The key issue for meeting the climate-neutrality objectives is that we find solutions here to ensure the country's energy security. I have a question about the security of electricity supply. Maybe you talked about it quickly, and I missed my ears. But, as you know, in the near future, the blocks of power plants that have been working in Narva for over half a century will be shut down and there will be a risk that we may not have enough electricity during peak periods. This is despite the fact that we are connected to Finland through Estlink and increasingly connected to other Baltic countries. Does the government have a clear plan to prevent this threat? At the latest, this closure may take place in 2025 or something. What's the plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U103	Thank you. Yeah, I really might have been a little quick to squeal when I answered. I wanted to provide long and very substantive answers, because the subject is crucial. In answer to the third question, I actually dealt with it. I also dealt with energy blocks based on the first group, or dust-burning technology, what happens to them. I said that the first group was made up of older dust-fired energy blocks operated to a very limited extent and under the limited working and exemption provisions of the Industrial Emissions Directive. Basically, they have reached the end of their technical lives. It is estimated that these energy blocks will be closed over the next year, and the reason is that the allowed hours will be filled. The second group consists of energy blocks based on all environmental conditions in the European Union, which are based on dust burning technology, and which, in the current market situation, work on a periodic basis. And the third group is made up of the newest, hot-shell blocks, such as the Auvere power plant. These plants are constantly operating in the current market situation, although they are being burdened by changes in the market price of electricity, either upwards or downwards. However, your question is entirely justified, on the one hand, because of the lifetime of the blocks, on the other hand, because of environmental requirements. And thirdly, I'd say, because of the price of CO2. We can see that the production of oil shale electricity will decrease not in months or weeks, but, I would say, in days, in hours. And now this is a very important issue that we are still proposing to households in Ida-Viru County. First of all, my bow to miners, engineers and households there have supported the Estonian economy in mining oil shale for decades. We've gotten more wealthy because of it, we've gotten our power from there. He has been one of Estonia's primary natural resources, one of our primary resources, which we have been very, very proud of for years. And I don't think here in the Riigikogu speech chair that we should stop the whole oil shale industry and forget about it. On the contrary! I think we should be thinking about innovation, supporting research on oil shale in 20252030 and also in 2040. I am sure that there will be better technologies, then we will have smarter solutions and also less CO2 emitting solutions. The burning stone certainly must not be forgotten. But it's maybe in the long run, you asked about 2025. You asked that, even if we were synchronised with the central European network, what happens if there is a shortage of electricity during peak consumption. Well, you could say that we always like to paint such dark pictures. For example, to say that sometimes it has been a very dry time in Norway, that hydropower reserves may or may not be running low. What happens then? Well, most likely, Estonia is still trying to do everything it can to develop wind energy. We recently had a meeting with the Prime Minister of Finland, and we also discussed this. I know that Estonia currently has a very interesting joint project with Latvia at this "pre-stage" in order to create a wind energy park in the Gulf of Livonia. Further, biomethane could certainly come more and more on the table. But let us be honest, we very often confirm in this Chamber that we support close to nature and green energy, but if we want to start building windmills, everyone will say not in my backyard. I'm afraid we'll see about that. We can even see that I have already given this example, that in Hiiumaa a wind farm was wanted to be set up within 12 kilometres of the sea, but there were also major disputes. They say visual pollution is, and maybe it is. So these are complicated questions, aren't they? But, as I said, we should, in my view, retain a certain part of oil shale in order to guarantee security of supply and security, we cannot completely cross it off. They also talk about solar energy, solar panels. It could be, but it can hardly be massive production in Estonia's geographical and, above all, in our weather conditions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U104	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U105	Thank you. I will continue on the same subject that Jüri Jaanson asked about. In your answer to the second question, you said that domestic production capacities certainly have an important role to play, which I fully agree with. The question is what technologies we mean and how we use these technologies. When we talk about the sun and the wind, they do not in themselves replace oil shale energy, or controlled production capacities. We have, like the key issue, just managed production capacities, which, in a simplified way, can be turned on and off. At today's market prices, all oil shale energy blocks, power generation blocks, including Auvere, have, after all, been in a very difficult situation. So what technologies could we still be talking about, and what would be the time perspective for the deployment of these technologies? And could nuclear energy fit in there?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U106	Thank you. Yes, there are those who say that we do not have to worry at all about the alternative to oil shale. We already have such good connections that security of supply is guaranteed in any case. There are also carriers and believers of this way of thinking in Estonia; they say that we have nothing to worry about. But I think the peak loads indicate that we actually have to. That's my opinion. As I said, I believe that, in any case, some part of the consumption of peak load up to a certain point should ensure that we do not get over it or around it. Now, you asked what might be other, alternative approaches. I understand you want me to expand this answer, not go the same way I used to answer Mr. Jaanson. At the end, you also highlighted nuclear energy. Well, when we say in Estonian society that we are going to make nuclear plants, it is likely that the 35+ generation will remember the terrible tragedy of Chernobyl as its first emotion. At the same time, we see that nuclear energy is quite widely used in the European Union in many countries: France, the Czech Republic, Finland, etc. New nuclear plants are also being built, there are new plans for the future. We have said, at least in the current government union, that we could seriously consider analysing the construction of the fourth generation nuclear power plant and thinking in this direction. Well, at this point, in real life, it's still pretty inconspicuous. However, it is clear that this would require a very important contribution to emissions, how they are collected and stored. It's very important. But, broadly speaking, I think that we should not take nuclear energy off the table, and I think that serious debates on this issue in society are very welcome. I'm going to say this sincerely. I remember they wanted to do some tests on the wood refinery, too, but then, as you remember, there was no political force to go on with it. I hope that there will be no similar approach to this analysis. But yes, certainly this is an emotionally difficult consideration for the representatives of several generations, because the first thing that comes to mind is the tragic event in Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U107	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U108	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I would first like to say that I think your comment on Hiiumaa that there are people who would like to go hiking in Hiiumaa is correct. I think this is an analytically accurate position. But that's what I wanted to ask. I am listening to this debate here and I think that this is perhaps one of the best debates I have heard in this Chamber in the short time that I have been in the Riigikogu. I have noticed that there are issues that are discussed regularly in the Riigikogu. There is talk of foreign policy, there is talk of security policy, you have just come before us with a presentation of a policy on the European Union. Would you like to grasp the idea that perhaps we should have a regular, regular climate policy debate? The government and the Riigikogu will discuss together what our goals are, how we move towards them, how their execution is going. Could that be an idea you're taking from this hall today and discussing it with your colleagues in the government? And maybe we could legitimize something like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U109	Thank you. I understand that as a member of your Riigikogu, as prescribed by law and order, you want to cut everything into law. It may not be wrong either, but fortunately, life is a little more flexible. We have now discussed this Estonian strategy with the Riigikogu until 2035. To be honest, the idea has been that if Estonia's strategy up to 2035 were to be brought here to the level of the Riigikogu, one plus could be due to the fact that not all ministers come here before the Riigikogu. You have given an example of the European Union's policy debate and we have some other examples. However, not all members of the government make such a report on their area of activity even once a year in front of this House. At the same time, in the field of forestry, there are still some examples, but there are rather few. I think this, I do not know, is an annual review of the climate debate absolutely necessary. It now ties in with this strategy until 2035 as well, I do not know whether the Minister of the Environment will look at his portfolio more widely and come here before the Riigikogu. However, of course, this issue does not only concern the Minister for the Environment; it also concerns the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure and several other ministers. After all, the Riigikogu has a form to discuss important national issues. It would certainly be wise to hold this debate too, just as European Union policies have been discussed or a review of research and development, with which I have the honour of being before you on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U110	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U111	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! Really, the debate is a good one, so maybe I'd like to pick up exactly where Raimond ended up. Mr Kaalep also expressed his support for rail transport and you have made a number of environmental messages here today. But you also once said that this is the government that has so far spoken most about climate policy. I just want to see that it doesn't stay so much as talk. It seems to me that while the Minister for the Environment is a perfectly sympathetic gentleman and intends to conduct a public poll on nuclear energy issues, his party is still being led by other gentlemen and they, for example, intend to bring Rail to the Baltic before we know it. You run an organisation such as the Climate and Energy Council. In my opinion, this should be the ultimate body coordinating this policy at government level. What are you doing in the Climate and Energy Council, and as members of the Riigikogu, could we also meet with this Climate and Energy Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U112	Thank you. Well, first I say this, I don't know why, but I don't think it's right. I'll be honest with you, I'm trying to deal with my party, but generally, we like to teach other parties. I understand the Reform Party is doing well today, the support is record high, and you are now trying to deal with the EKRE. But I believe the EKRE can handle itself perfectly well. Point one. I continue to believe that no government has discussed climate issues as much as today's government. The situation in the world, including the price of CO2, has certainly provided its input here. Worldwide, processes are changing very quickly. But it is also Estonia's own wish. Your concern is that we continue to discuss these issues so that it does not fade. Yeah, I can promise you that. It is also your wish that we not only discuss, but do, I understand, also make decisions. As I said here, we have made a lot of environmental decisions during this government. I was talking about the railways, and there are examples of a security policy area that is actually very strongly linked to climate policy. It is the decision of the Minister for the Environment that we are restoring subsidies for the purchase of electric vehicles and not only for legal persons, but for both: legal and natural persons. I think these are very important decisions. Now, you asked about the Committee on Climate and Energy. This is a government committee, and you asked if it was possible to meet them. This committee shall be composed of members of the Government. Of course, if you want to meet, I'm always willing to meet you and discuss it, it's not a problem. We have meetings at a pretty good frequency, I think, six times, sometimes a couple of times. The main issue that has been discussed is, of course, the same: the whole summer on the table was the issue of climate neutrality. Now we've moved on. The government, as we know, decided to have a very important document drawn up: 'Estonia's National Energy and Climate Plan for 2030', which we delivered at the end of last year. It can already be said today that we have received quite a lot of good feedback from the European Union that the document is very substantive. There is a very positive view of this, saying that a good climate plan for 2030 will be good. If you unravel this scheme, you will see that there are very important steps to be taken. The broader aim of the plan is to provide the people, companies and other Member States of Estonia with as precise information as possible about the measures that the Estonian state intends to achieve the energy and climate objectives agreed in the European Union. We are taking on different areas, really there is a great deal that needs to be dealt with, such as energy, even the development of wind farms, less supply of renewable energy. Next: transport, the development of public transport in the field of transport, the railways that have been so much discussed here, and the use of biofuels. Let's move on: one thing we're not really talking about, but I say we should talk about is the building fund. I am not thinking primarily of central government buildings, but on the contrary, I am thinking of what I think the academician Kurnitski has said: we must contribute more to the repetition of our apartments. So many Estonian residents live in apartments and we actually see that our apartment fund is not in good shape in construction. These houses need to be repaired. Let's move on: agriculture. Well, there are a lot of important ideas here that we want to develop, whether it be organic farming, improving manure management, investing in energy savings. Let's move on: waste management. You are asking what this committee is doing. There are fundamental changes in waste management: reducing the generation of biodegradable waste, reducing landfilling, reducing the environmental risks of waste. We cannot get over it or around it, we say very often that we are foresters in a good way. They say the forest is a poor man's coat. Forest management, timely regeneration of forests, improvement of forest health and vitality, protection of habitats, protection of populations of species common in Estonia, industrial processes. Those are the things. If you want to meet and discuss these issues, I say that the pace of work is quite good for us, but you are always welcome. Let me know, and we'll arrange these meetings. I'd be happy to meet you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U113	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U114	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! The foundation for saving the climate is, in fact, to keep our earthly desires in check, including keeping material desires in check, and also in terms of public spending. Today you have already said that four-lined roads must be done anyway. This will require 1.7 billion on the basis of the most modest estimates, certainly in the end much more. This means destroyed forests, dirt, a very strong environmental impact, that is to say the promotion of road transport. And it's not even supported by the Road Administration. Yet you have taken such a decision: but it must be done, and that is all. Traffic density does not meet these needs. Climate policy requires great change from all of us. Are you able to start talking about road issues on a substantive, need-based basis, not on the basis of the fact that we have a great goal, that we have to have a big goal, but on the basis of what is real need, and build according to it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U115	Thank you. There are certainly political parties in Estonia who have said that they do not support scheme 2 + 2, but I think most people have said that it is right. But you asked about me. As I said, climate policy cannot be taken as just one pillar of foundations. In addition to the environment, the economic and social sectors are equally equivalent to the foundations. And I think that's the basic principle. Those who disagree do not follow the basic principle of the principles of sustainable development. After all, I said here in one debate that, of course, maybe some parts of the road have to be constructed following a 2 + 1 scheme, but in general, in three main directions, we need to develop a safer connection. Current connections are very dangerous in terms of traffic. Traffic intensity is increasing and will certainly continue to grow, nothing can be done. I think the fact that more people come here from outside as tourists also shows that traffic intensity is growing. Well, we're talking about Rail Baltic, but that's only one direction. And today there is a railway between Tallinn and Tartu and between Tallinn and Narva. You're asking me if I think a hundred percent of all these 366 kilometers have to be a 2+2 solution. No, I don't think it has to be that way. But mostly, I think that's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U116	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U117	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You certainly know that the European Union's climate policy does not support investment in the oil shale industry, unfortunately. And in March, the European Union will adopt an industrial strategy, which will also not support these investments. What I do not understand and what I want to ask is that if the private sector, such as the Viru Chemistry Group, or even Eesti Energia, want to take these risks, let them take them. But why does taxpayers' money have to go there, while taxpayers' money could be put into R &amp; D measures that support climate policy objectives? Okay, this refinery, that's a huge amount, 600 million or how much it's supposed to be. But why is it necessary to support Eesti Energia with taxpayers' money so that Eesti Energia can make another oil factory, for example? It is not as expensive as the refinery, and Eesti Energia receives money from bond markets for its investments, to borrow equity capital. Why do you have to put taxpayers' money in there?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U118	Thank you. As far as I am concerned, as far as the Eesti Energia plant is concerned, the story is about this oil shale production plant, it is still their decision. I just had contact with the Council today. They haven't decided yet, this decision will come to their table in the coming weeks. But frankly, I'm following the same principle. We must also consider the social sector. As I said, there is no way we can take a condescending view of Ida-Virumaa and oil shale. This has been one of the most important natural resources for us in economic terms. It's been working, giving households income. Today, the question is whether we can do something more environmentally friendly than oil shale, which certainly includes CO2 emissions, and this is an emission that will certainly have a negative environmental footprint, but it is smaller. Eesti Energia says that oil shale oil in this form has been required in the world for the next 10 to 15 years. This will contribute, Mr Sõerd, to our exports, to our economy, and this must be seen as a whole. If you ask whether the country is going to change the structural balance of its budget by giving it money, it is never meant. Now, that oil shale oil refining plant you mentioned. As I said, this topic will come back to us in the spring of this year, it will have to be looked at again. There is no decision that we are giving taxpayers' money to do this. I have also heard of the order of magnitude that you have indicated at 600 million. But because the private sector is putting it into this, I'm fantasizing now at a third, the public business side is putting a third, and the state is putting a third, no such decision has been made.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U119	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U120	Austet President! Good Prime Minister! My good colleague, Raimond, and I remembered something very important. In fact, the coalition agreement provides a nice point that the government association supports the municipalities in the preparation and implementation of bicycle strategies. In what year has the state budget planned to support municipalities in achieving this goal and could our capital, for example, also receive support for the development and implementation of a bicycle strategy?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U121	Thank you. I believe that if you ask so specifically, so in detail, then the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications must be removed from the papers on how much support for this strategy is. I don't have that number with me today. I think you'll find out if you ask the Ministry. If you can't, I'm sure I'm willing to help. But in general, yes, if we take different environmental objectives, then we are constantly talking about the construction of light traffic routes, the support of light traffic routes. Looking at the change in our cycling culture, I think it's been rather large in rural areas. It's also been in the rising phase in the capital, but we can't say there's a very big, massive home to work, from work to shop and from store to home with a bike. It will, however, be entangled, on the one hand, by the lack of safety and a comprehensive network of light traffic routes. And, on the other hand, certainly also the conditions: where I leave the bicycle, how it is solved at work, for example. But rather, it's still in a slightly rising trend, so it's definitely one of the most important priorities. But yes, if you want a specific number, I understand that you wanted to know, Mr. Juske, I don't have one right now. You have to ask me about MKM, and if you have to, I'm sure I'll help. Let me know!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U122	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U123	Thank you. Good George! Unlike my colleague Ligi, I do not see the danger that even one metre of new four-track road will be built during your government. Neither the budget nor the road safety plan has really provided for any amount. I would rather be more ambitious in this area, but we know that the days of this government will run out before you are built. But my question is slightly about the same subject. About the New Year's Eve, your colleague, Martin Helme, spoke very much about the fact that he should actually start cutting the excise duty on diesel in order to be able to consume more fossil fuels. Please tell me if this is a serious plan. Is this also a government plan, or was it simply designed to get a little more famous during the holidays, and the press release would get to the news nicely?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U124	Thank you. Mr. Taavi in the garment, I understand it's your wish that this government, if he doesn't fall at 17.40, would fall by 17.41, wouldn't it? That's what you work for, you work for all the time. But that's a pretty wavy statement when you say you're not making any meters 2 + 2 sections. You know very well that Võõbu is going to be built this year. [[The Taavi in the garment says something about it.]] This is going into construction this year, and it has also had very great benefits for today's government that these investments are in the budget, that this project is going to go further in order to move forward in this direction. You know that today's government has also decided to carry out the design this year. To this end, there are millions of people in the administration and field of Taavi Asa. Yes, I think we need to make faster preparations in this regard, which has not been the case in the meantime. Maybe it's not too much for what's gonna happen after the Mountains. I understand you would like to see what has not been done in 17 years now done in three or four years. I'm trying! I'll try as fast as I can. Now, let's move on to what you said about Martin Helme. I think that's the right idea he's been saying. In any case, we need to look at what is happening to border trade. After all, you fought for the booze in such a way that there wasn't enough alcohol duty to go down. You see, it's been dropped for today. The problem with the excise duty on diesel is that diesel is primarily bought very much from Lithuania for long-distance cars. We will definitely lose today compared to Lithuania. The question is now that if we cut the excise duty on diesel in Estonia, what does it mean for the budget? It's a big question! Whether it means minus to the budget, it is budget-neutral or it means plus. These calculations, which I have received, are based on half a year or six months ago and show that this would mean a minus budget. Well, let's see, we have to do new calculations. If you think everything has to be cut into stone, it's not all coming. Monetary policy needs to be very flexible, to see what the market economy is. So the fact that the Minister of Finance looks at the situation in other countries looks beyond Estonia, not just at the picture here, is very right. So this idea must be supported, analysed and consistent with the market situation at all times.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U125	Thank you, Prime Minister. No further questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U126	Good vice chairman! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, who are still here to listen! A few observations, maybe. It seems to me in this debate today, which was sometimes meaningful and even interesting, that, in fact, the Prime Minister's very clear plan of how Estonia reaches climate neutrality, what are the new technologies, what are the economic opportunities, we did not hear. First of all, the text drawn up by officials was read to us at the speed of the pharmacy ad. We got an idea of the preferences and the real points of view through the answers, but at times it seemed to me that the Prime Minister actually actually quite entertainingly mocked these issues. That's a shame. I do not think that there is any way to separate climate policy, economics and finances from one another for a long time now. Every decision we make affects what happens to the climate. And the same can be said of the previous inquiry. Since the heirs did not make a final statement on this matter, a word or two about it. However, I hope that the implementation of this project will be able to bring itself together. I think it is right to say that it is the task of the Head of Government to keep this transnational cooperation in operation, as the Prime Minister has also confirmed. Hopefully his coalition partners will not succeed in turning this project of such importance to Estonia, which would add us to the rest of Europe in a truly environmentally friendly way, into a ditch. However, in order for Rail Baltic to be environmentally friendly, it is indeed necessary to rely on the planning of the rest of transport, first of all, rather than obsessing about the fact that these 366 kilometres must be four-way roads. However, an obsession can lead to safety. Specialists have long said that this can also be guaranteed by a 2 + 1 road, which saves significantly more natural environments and does not give the wrong signal about car use for the future. Rail Baltic will become environmentally friendly when our electricity no longer comes from oil shale. It is therefore crucial that we hear here in the Riigikogu sometime what Estonia's plan for exiting the oil shale industry is. Today, the Prime Minister made it clear that hopefully in 2040 there will be some kind of innovation in the use of oil shale. I think that is not enough, I think Estonia deserves more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U127	Thank you. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U128	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, A few remarks. First of all, four-way roads. I would point out that the last decision on this issue was made in spring 2016 when 2017/2020. The 2005 RES provided funds to build the road from Kose to Mäon in four lanes. It is true that from that point on, not only has money been allocated to new road objects, but not even one metre of roads are designed to be four lines. This must be assessed by the good responder who has made the decisions at that time. The years were then.. I repeat over.. 2017, 2018 and 2019. While the road plan says that there could be a new section of road ready in 2030, we know very well here in the Riigikogu that the state budget cover is not even there for the money, and without the same cover there is both 2030 and 2300. The RES period does not fit either of them. Therefore, you can allow anything and then say that it was necessary, you see, to postpone, as was the case with Rail Baltic. Now for the excise duty. On the one hand, this issue of excise duty should not be much to worry about. We all understand that, just as the internal defence reserve, like a number of other issues that have been thrown up by the EKRE, is not a serious political initiative, and that is where it could remain. But, on the other hand, if we think about it, what kind of signal does it give when, on the one hand, the Prime Minister says that Estonia has to fight climate change - Jüri Ratas has itself said that no government has talked so much about climate change - and, on the other hand, the members of the government themselves are giving a signal that you need to spend more fuel, namely fossil fuel - we are going to lower the price? Well, go get what the government's policy or position is. If all of this is assessed in conjunction with the previous question of inquiry, i.e. Rail Baltic, where investments in one of the most sustainable and environmentally friendly modes of transport have been spent within three years or, more specifically, only 11% of 100%, this shows that the actions and words do not coincide. In English, the expression 'put your money where your mouth is'. Unfortunately, in the case of the current government, this has in no way come true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U129	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. Would the Prime Minister like a final word? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U130	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It is good that there will be no elections in 2020. But there's no way to blame for the fact that this debate still stays here politically. Whatever I say here before the Riigikogu as a member of the government, sincerely seriously I try to say, it is still said to be nonsense, it is not enough, it is not getting worse and so on. I will start with one of the fragments that Mr Kõivas mentioned: that the internal defence reserve, this idea of the EKRE, has not been implemented, nothing has happened. Why hasn't it happened? On the contrary, the government has decided to put an amount of EUR 900000 in it to take off: take off with preparation, take off with training, take off with equipment. What are you talking about, nothing happened?! Point one. The point two is, Mr Alender, that the climate issue, I say it with full sincerity and from the bottom of my heart, I take it extremely seriously. I understand that you now want to use the sentence that Mr Kõivas said: that I have said that no government has said so much about the climate. And the emphasis is on the word 'talk'. I can say that no government has said so much about this and has acted on it. Indeed, we have discussed this subject very much, we have made very many decisions, and we have made very large decisions. And I actually feel that you'd rather like these decisions, so I guess you think they're the right ones. But it's hard to say, because it's the wrong man in your current political picture. Even the same thing that you touched: I did not just say that the Committee on Climate and Energy had been set up in this government, it had not been before. And I think it has actually played a very important role, that we have managed to reach where Estonia has reached. In the spring of 2019, I was at the table of the European Union Council and I said that we cannot accept this objective today; we are doing only analyses at first. And we did the tests, taking them very seriously. We've been working with the Academy of Sciences and its president. You're saying we're analyzing little of the energy sources or sources of the future. On the contrary, I think that there have been rare earth metals, there has been hydrogen, there has been a greater appreciation of oil shale in the future. It is unfortunately the truth that we have not very much studied our natural resources scientifically in the last 30 years or, sorry, since the second half of the 1990s. [[A voice from the hall.]] No, I don't use it for 17 years. In fact, the reality is that, unfortunately, we have placed too little money there. I want to tell you that the two raises you have made today are very important. I am grateful for this and think that this dialogue should continue if we can. Of course, this political pingpong, I understand that. But I certainly do not agree that you are saying that nothing has been done or that what has been done is pointless. That is not the way, I think, to form a dialogue. But in any case, thank you for these questions and for this very serious debate of two and a half hours. Sincerely!!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U131	Thank you, Prime Minister. The answer to today's second question is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U132	We're moving on. The third item is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on the obligation of departure and refusal of entry initiated by the Government of the Republic and the law on the granting of international protection to aliens. I'd like to ask the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U133	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Indeed, such a bill was born on the initiative of the government. And the reasons are very pros. Firstly, we all know that migration, as such, is no exception in today's world. We can't compare ourselves to some 150-year-old circumstances, people then moved with chariots, horses and sailing ships, and the whole planetary movement of people was relatively limited. Today, we have new techniques, new technologies, but also, as has been said here today, new climatic conditions, many areas are droughtd, but many areas are warring. It's got tens and tens of millions of people moving. We all know that migration problems are acute and are acute in many areas of the planet: North America, Europe, Asia. Therefore, Estonia must also be able to look somewhat ahead and take steps in legislation so that for some reason the sudden waves of migration in our region do not catch our country unexpectedly and that we are able to defend our interests and ensure our security in such cases. That is why the government has initiated this draft, which may have been titled as our drafts have in many cases been somewhat complicated, but which deals with very specific circumstances. But I will now briefly list the points that this bill amends in law. First of all, we are in a situation where, in the event of mass immigration, we cannot manage to identify people and deal with their cases. We conducted, if I remember correctly, a mass immigration exercise in November at the Koidula border crossing point in southern Estonia, and during the day we imitated the situation where 500 people wanted to enter Estonia. We had calculated how much time it would take to process one person's case, and it turned out we couldn't handle it. This means that if we now have the law that, within 48 hours, people have to be given the answers that are being given to them, what happens to them next, it simply is not possible. But it was only 500 people. When we talk about thousands and thousands are completely possible in some kind of crisis situation, it is obvious that we have to channel practically all the resources of judges, police officers, border guards, as well as humanitarian workers and medical staff across Estonia to cope with mass border crossings. This is not conceivable in the legal framework that we are currently in force. That is why the first important point is that, with the permission of the Administrative Court, the detention of immigrants can be extended to seven days in order to carry out initial procedural procedures. If there is no effect during this period, you can still apply for these extensions, but now we are talking about the first seven days. The court shall be allowed to draw up a court settlement without having the ability to describe and justify it, where this is due to an exceptionally large number of applications for detention of an alien submitted to the court. This, again, means simplifying the procedure and cutting red tape to deal with the emergency situation. Third, foreigners or applicants for international protection who are staying in Estonia without a legal basis are allowed to be detained outside the detention centre. What does that mean? We imagine that in southern Estonia there will be mass border crossings in Luhamaa and Koidula and throughout the border of South-East Estonia. If we can stop these people at the border, we can channel them to some sort of checkpoints, centers, then by law we should be holding them now, say, Võru or also in Põlva or some relatively small place in the detention facilities there, but in the Võru police station, if I know correctly, there are a dozen cells in Põlva, some in Põlva. It is clear that we cannot cope with this catapult. This legislative amendment also allows us to direct people elsewhere under control, whether they are schools, cultural centres or other buildings, maybe some temporary places that have been erected during the summer period, such as tents where people receive first aid, food and, if necessary, first aid. It would also be possible to deal with their cases. Further, the number of services provided to illegal immigrants and applicants for international protection is limited. What does that mean? This means that, if we now have a whole range of services for applicants for international protection, from a support person to a grant, housing, it is obvious in the case of mass immigration that if we have hundreds of asylum applications, we will not be able to meet all these needs to this extent. We reserve the right of the state to do so to a reduced extent. Further, the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (Frontex) and the European Asylum Support Office (EASO) will be involved in the conduct of return and international protection procedures. Once again, it is designed to enable us, in the event of a shortage of our own people, to involve, as our officials have been helping, for example, in Italy and Greece, officials who have arrived to us through the relevant structures of other countries. However, there is one important point here: these officials cannot take decisions on our statehood, but help to deal with matters purely procedurally. These are the main points that are briefly set out in the draft. If you're interested in statistics, there's some way to bring it out. Today we are not talking about mass immigration, we are talking about immigration, which is completely under control in Estonia, where there are segments that we find very difficult to even statistically identify, but it is already linked to secondary migration within the European Union, which is partly the result of mass immigration in 2015, but partly due to the fact that, under international agreements, people have the right to move within the framework of learning mobility, labour migration and other migration. But all of this is basically under our control, except for the biggest problem with labour migration, but this bill does not concern it. I don't have anything else to say in advance right now. I'm ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U134	Thank you. You really do have questions. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U135	Thank you. Mr. Helme! I must admit that I support your draft and even commend it, but perhaps there is a reason that it is still an initiative of the European Union. How do you accept this, or how do you explain this contradiction, that the European Union is still dealing with migration, immigration, trying to regulate it, to mitigate its effects? This is not in line with what you have told the world in general, that the European Union is only doing evil and favours mass immigration. Have you corrected your opinion on the European Union a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U136	Well, complicated question. In this sense, when we talk about the European Union more broadly and as a whole, the European Union is a very complex phenomenon. Nor would Brexit have happened if the European Union were not such a complex phenomenon. If we are now focusing on migration, then in fact this draft is entirely in line with our positions as early as 2015: migration must be controlled, it must be up to the Member State to decide to what extent migration is accepted, what procedures will be carried out. Since then, water has been flowing into the sea for five years and, in fact, we all see that there have also been significant adjustments to thinking in the European Union as a whole in the meantime. It is increasingly said that there is a need to address the origins of the problem, i.e. the countries of origin, to help them cope with economic, social and often political problems to the extent that it is within the power of the international community and the European Union. The way of thinking in this direction is moving, and that is what we fully support and welcome. This means that if we succeed in this, there will be significantly fewer people in Europe who are seeking all sorts of adventures and seeking a better life. So I don't see a serious contradiction here. As far as this draft is concerned specifically, I would say that this draft does not, in fact, concern migration from somewhere in the Middle East or Africa. We are likely to be exposed to the masses that we have seen in the television picture somewhere in the Balkan countries traveling through the promised land to Germany, and there is no danger to us from these regions. However, we cannot rule out that, as a result of political bubbles or a technogenic or natural disaster, Estonia is hit by a short-term, life-saving migration of thousands of people from our immediate neighbourhood, literally saving life. That is what we need to take into account, and that is what we need to be prepared for. I think this draft will give us legislative mechanisms to deal with this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U137	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U138	Thank you. Mr. Minister of the Interior! The origin of this draft is, in fact, longer than the term of office of the current government. But be that as it may. We also discussed this in the Commission, but I am now drawing your attention to one point which gives asylum seekers and immigrants the right to go to court. At present, they do not have this possibility under Estonian law. Have you asked the court administration council and even the courts how they look at it? You're saying that this system doesn't even apply to 3,000 people when an emergency has been declared, as I read here. If 3,000 complaints come to court, will this have no effect on the judicial system? In all other cases, this law does not apply, there must be an emergency.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U139	Personally, I have not spoken to the representatives of the courts about this, but the subject of this being sharply raised is perhaps not the right word, rather seriously upstairs than the draft was prepared with the Ministry of Justice. The officials and minister there also held lengthy negotiations with the representative organisations of judges and judges on the subject. This was also, in fact, one reason why it took a relatively long time for the draft to be completed, because the question was precisely the capacity of the courts for resources, the possibility of involving judges, when the courts in South-East Estonia simply cannot cope with the burden. The Minister of Justice convinced me that he has agreed that, if necessary, we will bring additional troops from Saaremaa, Hiiumaa and other places in Estonia to cope with this work. So, for your part, the courts won't block the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U140	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U141	Thank you. I was wondering who to bring back from Hiiumaa. As far as I know, there are no judges in Hiiumaa. But let it be, it's what it's like. My question is that, for at least five years in a row, your leading party has frightened the Estonian people as you wish, or warned them of the fact that huge hordes of foreigners are about to come, refugees more precisely. You have used very, very different methods of sowing this fear among the people of Estonia. And now you come to the remote control, you say that migration is under control, you commend the European Union's initiatives, and at all, you reassure everyone, you say that there was nothing at all. The question is simple. Now, as minister, if you have a little more information, do you have some clarification? Are you willing to admit that for five years you've actually been talking shit?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U142	Thank you very much for using such literary vocabulary on this issue. I don't have anything to admit here. We have always believed that migration must be under the control of the Estonian government. This bill is one step in the direction that migration, whether legal, illegal, in crisis situations, is under the control of the Republic of Estonia, under the control of the power structures of the Republic of Estonia and other structures. I don't see the slightest contradiction here. Not a single contradiction! You're talking about us scaring people. But have you thought that perhaps because we have frightened, and perhaps because we are in the government now, we have not been hit by such mass migration? Secondary migration, which is, by the way, a very serious problem in the European Union, has also not hit us. By the way, looking into the future, I can say right now that the attention of the Ministers of the Interior of Europe was given to the last paper by the German Ministry of the Interior, which contained a series of proposals to reduce the sovereignty of the Member States in the future control of migration. It is a 'food for thought' paper which does not oblige anyone to do anything, but not as a person born yesterday, I can say that Germany is preparing initiatives for its Presidency to force Member States more forcefully to coercive the forced distribution of migrants arriving in Europe. There is also another elimination of the Dublin regulation on the agenda, threatening to review the support funds granted by the European Commission to countries in the event of disagreement. I'd say that's all we've warned about. So there's no intimidation. Of course, as regards Germany's so-called food for thought, you can also say that you ask a lot, you get little. This means that more will be proposed, and everyone will know that the compromise will ultimately be less pronounced. But it is clear that migration issues are not off the agenda in the European Union, and they are far from off the agenda globally.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U143	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U144	Thank you. Mr. Helme! That migration issues never disappear from the agenda, but that pressure is global, I have been telling my colleagues about 20 years in this Chamber. The causes are overpopulation, lack of resources, climate change and all the conflicts that result from it. The Rome Club already took care of this so that some people in Estonia would know about it. With regard to 2015, which you mentioned, there was actually a break in the attitude of the European Union at that time. And I must say, sadly for you, that even before the European Union began to take this seriously, the talk was then mainly about Germany and Austria, I told my colleagues and I received the answer that we cannot be like EKRE. So much to illustrate how difficult it was to talk rationally about this crisis in the environment created by EKRE. But my question is this: do you recognise that the European Union is still a necessary cooperation format for us to deal with global migration of all kinds, both legal and non-legal, and to control it nationally?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U145	I have never denied the need for international cooperation; I have always believed that it is necessary. I have not been directly against the European Union either. I have been of the opinion that the European Union should not become more and more federalised and take more sovereignty away from the Member States. We have certain differences of approach in this respect. My Euroscepticism began when the European Union was about to adopt the European Union Constitution, which, as we know, failed. It was voted down by both the Dutch and the French. There were several attempts to arrange new referendums to get the right result, but in the end it did not work. Well, he went through the back door. But what I referred to when talking about this German thought-out paper is, in principle, again an attempt to reduce the sovereignty of the Member States, to deprive the Member States of certain rights on certain issues. And I don't agree with that. But I have never denied the need for economic and often legal cooperation between the European Union as the peoples of Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U146	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U147	Of course, the fact is that migration in Europe was also before the EKRE and will certainly continue after leaving your government. If you look at any statements made by the previous governments of the Republic of Estonia, both prime ministers and interior ministers, there has always been talk about controlled migration. So in this respect, you're not unique in any way. But this is the kind of thing I want to ask you. You have also received opinions on this draft from international organisations The main criticism concerns detention, it is referred to that detention for more than 72 hours under international law is still extreme. Most of your comments here are that we take note, we take note, we take note. And then you claim in the explanatory memorandum that the international impact of this bill is small. I am afraid, however, that it is not very small, although I say that these objectives are correct. Perhaps you will comment in a few words on your ministry and your own responses to the criticisms of international organisations.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U148	I mean, laws are made primarily by the Estonian Riigikogu. And when international organisations make their views known, we take note of them, but we are still based on the fact that we here have to lead this country and we have to decide how we organise our affairs in this country. We must, of course, try to do this in such a way that we do not have direct conflicts between our important allies and also with international law. However, if the resource of our small state does not report taking into account the recommendations of international organisations and we find it reasonable to take a different position in resolving matters, then I think that the Estonian people, who have given the powers to the Estonian Riigikogu, and the Estonian Riigikogu, who has given the power to the Estonian Government, are sovereign to make different decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U149	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U150	Thank you, Mr President. Looking at the facts, there has been no massive immigration of refugees in any year and no massive uncontrolled migration to Estonia between 2015 and 2020. Yet you are now saying that there is no contradiction between what you said at the time, well, who estimates the story of intimidation, who does not think it is between what you are saying and what you are saying. What really changed in 10 months when, in fact, there has been no mass immigration in any year, when all governments have been largely consistent in dealing with these issues? Did it change that you realize that it wasn't really true what you've been saying so far, that it was rather an illusionary story? Please answer this question. Are you willing to admit that you really did not tell the truth when you predicted that there would be mass immigration?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U151	No, we've been telling the truth all along. None of us have the crystal ball that would have told us in 2015 that the Hungarians are shutting down the borders, so that there are no such masses in Austria and Germany, too, and they are creating a completely different attitude in the European Union, a different level of debate. We didn't have that crystal ball, and we don't have it now. But if we look at the street scene now in Tallinn, we can see that this has clearly changed since 2015. There are certainly more people here who are clearly of foreign origin. And when we look at trends that have taken over in recent years, we see that countries and their problems are different. And at least in the last three Councils of Ministers, countries have also put their various problems on the table. And surprising! The country of the Mediterranean, Spain, complains not so much about the arrival of huge numbers of immigrants from North Africa in Spain, but complains about the arrival of a large number of immigrants from Latin America in overpowering Spain, with a large part coming from visa-free travel. But we know what is happening in Venezuela, Bolivia and many other Latin American countries. Migration as such does not have to follow exactly the pattern of the panic that broke out in 2015. Or I'll give you some other examples. The Polish Minister for the Interior has stressed on all occasions that Poland's main problem is migration from Ukraine. If I remember correctly, I hope we will not say that Helme lied again, 2.5 million Ukrainians are in Poland and that is a major problem for Poland. Yes, on the one hand, it is cheap labour, but on the other, it is also a serious demographic, migration and social problem. That's exactly what we can say. In our case too, it is clear now that we have very strong migratory pressure, because there is a visa-free regime between the European Union and Ukraine. We arrest people who illegally try to come to Estonia to work here illegally, illegally to their families, practically every day at airports and elsewhere on the border. They haven't written it properly. We have a serious problem with migration. And now, if you ask me why this bill is needed, I will emphasise once again: this bill is needed so that we are not powerless in the face of any crisis and should not say where we were so far. Now, honourable opposition politicians, who are now bombarding me with questions, you are going to blame the government for not doing anything in advance. We're trying to take this opportunity from you, we're trying to do something earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U152	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I now ask Paul Puustusmaa, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to act as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U153	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to be before you to support as co-rapporteur the bill 110, which has been initiated by the Government of the Republic. As Mart introduced earlier, this is a draft which transposes a directive of the European Union which allows a Member State, in a situation where a large number of illegal immigrants arrives, to change detention requirements and other related issues. While I am on the remote, of course, I cannot ask a question that I would like to put to the honourable Taavi Clothes, who very intensively tried to pinch the minister on the issue of the number of refugees or the number of arrivals. But it's a big mistake trying to mislead people. We have refugees and we have refugees, we have quota refugees and legalists and illegals. In fact, the number of immigrants is significantly higher. When we discussed the same thing that we are dealing with here today in the Commission, the representatives of the Ministry said that 21000 people officially came in with work permits last year. There was not one, one hundred or one thousand, we are talking about tens of thousands last year alone. But there are also illegals whose number we just don't know. So, in fact, this bill is justified. A good questioner asked whether the draft had been discussed with the judges and whether the judges were aware of how to contribute. Indeed, I can say that I went to the court administration council, and the judges deal with this with the Ministry of Justice. There are currently legislative changes in the process, which are intended to involve judges in this system, and indeed the question is how many judges are needed and how much resources we have in order to resolve the situation when mass immigration occurs. There was also a question of what mass immigration is. It turned out that with the existing code, we are already in trouble when we suddenly come in to some kind of number, say 400 or 500 people. That's the maximum limit we can handle. What if this amount is larger? If this amount is not 400-500, but if this amount is 1000, 1500, 2000, 3000? Those were the numbers they played with. And then it turned out we were, yeah, really in trouble. So that is the purpose of this bill: to deal with this situation. On the one hand, an act developed by the Ministry of the Interior would be helpful and, on the other hand, the Ministry of Justice and judges would be involved. This draft was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs last December. On 9 December, we had this debate in the Commission. The meeting was personally chaired by me, Paul Puustusmaa. Mr Kalle Grünthal, Mr Marek Jürgenson, Mr Siim Kiisler, Mr Andrei Korobeinik, Mr Lauri Läänemets, Mr Hanno Pevkur, Mr Taavi Rõivas and Mr Vilja Toomas took part in the committee's meeting as members. Of course, the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme, who made a long presentation, was invited, as was Ruth Annus, Head of the Citizenship and Migration Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, and Ele Russak, the advisor who supported the Minister and tried to answer our questions. The debate was very active and there were many questions. Since this is a politically-charged issue in a certain sense, it is understandable that the questions dealt not only with this draft itself, but with the various problems it brings. Therefore, I am not going to read to you what has been discussed throughout the Commission, but I will only try to touch on the issues that dealt with the specific draft law itself. At the meeting of the Commission, Mart Helme stated that the most important issue in drafting the draft was how to act in the event of the country being hit for some reason by the immigration of thousands of people. Indeed, this time, when addressing the issue, it was assumed that these people would not come from Europe in the course of secondary immigration, but from the East, for example. How, then, can we act without violating international law, international standards and remaining within the framework of our constitution? The current law provides that asylum seekers may be detained for 48 hours, as the Constitution allows a person to be detained for a maximum period of time without the permission of the court. It was agreed that, with the permission of the Administrative Court, the detention of immigrants may be extended to seven days for the purpose of carrying out initial procedural procedures. It's important. If there are so many immigrants that procedural procedures cannot be carried out during this period, it is possible to request an extension through the courts. In the case of mass immigration, the courts could not cope with the granting of procedural permits to thousands of people, and this is also being regulated. It is proposed that, unless the workload of the courts makes it possible to cope differently, they are allowed to draw up a court settlement without a descriptive and reasoned part in order to speed up the procedure. Mart Helme reported that during the summer of the meeting of the Ministers of the Interior of Europe, Finland was led by a crisis situation that dealt with a situation in which a country suddenly falls under a hybrid attack and, as a result, people need to be relocated, both within the country and from neighbouring countries. The meeting sought to identify the possibilities for assistance from the European Commission and the Member States of the European Union. It turned out there were shortcomings and there was plenty of room for improvement. That was the moment I asked how many people were involved in the crisis situation that was being played through at the meeting of the Ministers of the Interior of the European Union. That's when I got the answer from Mart Helme that the figure was 2,000 to 3,000 people, which, as it turns out, we can't do. Kalle Grünthal drew attention to the fact that if foreigners need to be detained in a larger number, it may not be reasonable or appropriate to use cultural houses and schools for this purpose, as these institutions are designed to carry out events of a different kind than to apprehend people. He asked if it was meant for. On this point, we received a reply from the Ministry that persons can only be detained at the detention centre. It was established that there are now 120 places in the new detention centre, but this is clearly not enough. In the case of mass immigration, we can rely on the fact that there is no need to detain all people, but there is a need to accommodate them and in such a situation school and cultural houses are also suitable for accommodation. Taavi Rõivas was interested, as was the case today in this Chamber, for which reason the number of irregular immigrants almost doubled in 2018 compared to 2016. Then different moments related to immigration were discussed, but this has nothing to do with this bill. Lauri Läänemets was interested in who would pay for the expulsion of foreigners and what would happen if the alien's country of origin could not be identified. We have received the answer that expulsion costs may also be charged to a specific foreigner. If he doesn't have any money, these costs will be borne by the State and the Police and Border Guard Board will be responsible for the expulsion. In addition, the European Union also supports expulsion. There is no time limit for expulsion proceedings and it will last for as long as the person has been identified and finally returned. And the expulsion procedure can be very long. The expulsion process of Nikolai Mikolenko, a citizen of the Russian Federation, lasted for 15 years, such a comparison was made. Countries are not obliged to grant such persons a residence permit. Frontex supports Member States in enhancing their return capacity and also in enhancing cooperation with third countries so that third countries fulfil their international obligations and withdraw their citizens. Then Lauri Western Forest asked what to do with people who spend a lot of time being expelled. We have received the answer that the person to be expelled can be held for a maximum of 18 months. Every four months the court shall decide on the proportionality of its detention and, if within 18 months the person has not been expelled, he shall be subject to free surveillance measures. The person waiting to be expelled must be in a homeless shelter and must report regularly as well as be advised to avoid radicalisation. Mr Pevkur asked the Minister for the Interior what was the political input of this draft, why the draft was actually initiated. It is clear from the explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal that the intention to develop was made in 2017. The Directive entered into force in 2008, 11 years ago. In fact, it is based on the programme of action of the new government, but it is based on the intention of the previous government to develop. Mart Helme explained that when the HotSpot 2019 exercise took place, it showed that Estonia would not be able to cope with the mass immigration procedure. It is necessary to create the legislative cover that this bill offers. In addition, there is a need to create sufficient resources to deal with this situation. These are two important, fundamental reasons. This draft deals with the emergency situation arising as a result of mass immigration and the provision of a solution to it. Hanno Pevkur also noted that we have emergency capabilities since he was a minister. On Bronze Night, the police had the ability to solve mass disorder. He asked if Mart Helme said that this bill would provide cover, then at what point and how much. In Mr Pevkur's view, the aim cannot be to introduce the transposition of the directive, which is to amend the obligation to leave and the ban on entry. In addition, the Ministry's advisor said that the HotSpot exercise showed that in the event of mass immigration, the procedural procedures of all immigrants could not be carried out within 48 hours. Due to the Return Directive, Estonia has an obligation to prevent migration, and the Ministry of the Interior, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, found such a solution that if there is mass immigration, the person can be detained for up to seven days with the permission of the court and, if necessary, the court can ask for further permission to extend the detention of the person. This draft provides a new basis for detention for the conduct of preliminary procedural procedures. That was the final conclusion. After this debate, a number of consensual decisions have been taken. It was decided to propose the deadline for amendments, and it was proposed to put the draft at first reading on the agenda of the plenary session on 13 January and to close the first reading. Paul Puustusmaa, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, was appointed rapporteur. As I said, all the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U154	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiations, the first reading is closed. The commission's proposal is also to conclude the first reading and, on the proposal of the commission, I will set the deadline of 27 January at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U155	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on. Today's fourth item is the inquiry into the independence of the Procurator's Office submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Kaja Kallas, Erkki Keldo, Liina Kersna, Yoko Alenderi, Maris Lauri, Kalle Laaneti, Kalvi Tõik, Andrus Seede, Heidy Purga, Toomas Kivimägi, Signe Kivi, Hanno Pevkuri, Jaak Juske, Valdo Randpere, Heiki Kranich, Raimond Kaljulaid, Helmen Küti, Urmas Kruuse, Keit Pentus-Rosimitus, Urve Tiidus, Marko Mihkelson, Katri Raigi, Lauri Läänemets and Jürgen Ligi on 11 November 2019. I ask Kaja Kallas, a member of the Riigikogu, to represent the heirs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U156	Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, Mart Helme, as Minister of the Interior, has repeatedly criticised the Estonian rule of law and the prosecutor's office. The Minister of the Interior has said on several occasions that the prosecutor's office acts as an instrument of political abuse. In some cases, the prosecutor's office closes, in others, initiates criminal proceedings and does so on clearly visible political motives. The Minister of the Interior has told us that political criminal investigations are being conducted in Estonia, for example, an investigation initiated on the possible conflict of interest of Mart Järvik's advisor against the adviser has been initiated in a politically motivated criminal case. According to the Minister of Home Affairs, there is an in-depth state that performs a political order and is tilted. A member of the Government of the Republic should not make accusations without being able to show any evidence, mention any fact or case that would confirm his story. The Ministry of the Interior is responsible for initiating control of Estonia's power structures. Preliminary investigations under the authority of the Minister of Interior are carried out by the authorities involved in the taking of evidence on the basis of which proceedings are initiated by the prosecutor's office. It is therefore possible to identify, in the direct administration of the Minister of the Interior, the circle of persons who carry out political procedures, as he claims. However, the Minister of the Interior has so far taken no steps to try to find proof of his words. Perhaps the Minister of the Interior simply has not had the opportunity or the Tribune to provide evidence and present his claims. That is why we have put forward an inquiry, to which we want concrete answers. The questions we asked in our inquiry are as follows: First of all, on the basis of what facts do you claim that the prosecutor's office is acting on political motives? Secondly, who are the forces who are guiding the investigations carried out by the prosecutor's office politically? Thirdly, what does political influence of the prosecutor's office look like? Fourthly, as Minister of the Interior, have you provided the Minister of Justice with factual evidence that the prosecutor's office is politically biased, as you claim? Fifthly, what analysis did you find that you could claim the political bias of the prosecutor's office? Sixth: who prepared the relevant analysis? Seventhly, the prosecutor's office often acts on the basis of the material collected by the investigating authorities, and does the information you know include political influence at the level of the investigating authorities? And eight: what are you going to do to ensure political independence in research institutions? In response, we are waiting for facts, concrete cases, as well as information that the Minister of the Interior has taken to find evidence and to prosecute the people who are involved in it, as he claims, that we have a politically biased prosecutor's office. But first, we would like proof that such a thing is true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U157	Thank you. I ask for an inquiry to be answered by the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U158	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Such an inquiry has come... I'd say this question has come to the wrong address, of course. The prosecutor's office is not under the authority of the Minister of the Interior, the prosecutor's office is under the authority of the Ministry of Justice and the prosecutor's office is not under the supervision of me, or the Minister of the Interior, or the Ministry of the Interior as an institution. So in that sense, you're breaking in like some side door. Since it is not the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior to supervise the prosecutor's office, I can only speak as a citizen. And as a legal uneducated person, I can only rely on my intuition and the results of visual observation. Those are the introductory words. You want me to answer the question of who are the forces who are guiding the investigations conducted by the prosecutor's office politically. Now that is an interesting question that needs to be answered by the competent investigative bodies. Now, in advance, what analysis of the tilt was carried out by who prepared the analysis? Look, I do not see the power of the Republic of Estonia that is independent. Independent of who? Independent from the defense police, independent from the criminal police or independent from the prosecutor's office? Independent of who? There is no such independent entity in the Republic of Estonia. In essence, the prosecutor's office is not supervised. This has, by the way, been brought to the attention for many years by a former member of the Reform Party, a MP and also, for some time, the Euro Ambassador Igor Gräzin. Igor Gräzin has repeatedly pointed out this in his speeches from the same remote and local area: the prosecutor's office in the Republic of Estonia is essentially not supervised. What, though, does the prosecutor's office do? In essence, the prosecutor's office exercises control over pre-trial investigations. All criminal investigations conducted by the police are under the control of the prosecutor's office. And through it, the prosecutor's office can also have a very strong influence on the legal course of things. If someone tries to make it clear to me that it's not so... Come on, prove it! Prove that this is not the case if you ask me to prove that this is the case! I'll give you some examples. I will give you examples that have not been written in my own words at all. I would like to give you an example of Marti Kuusik's case of his attorney, Küllike Nammi, some of the views that have appeared on the weekend in the Virumaa Journal. Kuly Namm, a lawyer, says this: 'I don't think this process would have been if Martit hadn't been appointed minister. ' That is one of his views. And now, 'This is certainly some kind of signicant meaning in the sense that we do not have processes in which the President has given such a clear guideline on how to judge as a constitutional institution. ' That's what attorney-at-law Küllike Namm said. He also says that he cannot assess whether the President who appoints the judges of the Estonian state and now pay attention: in Estonia, the judges are appointed by the President of the Republic of Estonia, who should give such clear guidance to the prosecutor's office and the courts. This person is guilty, and there is no other way to interpret this guideline. Fight back! You won't talk me out of it. He goes on to say, "But it bothers me. Honestly. One thing that has disturbed me from the very beginning in this whole procedure is that, in a situation where we do not know what really happened, whether or not this crime is a crime, relatively strong guidelines are being handed down. ' It's Küllike Namm. Now, let me give you some more examples of who will influence how it affects, how it affects. I've got a little bit of paper here, a little bit of material... We'll give you examples, we'll give you the facts, you'll get the facts. I don't have the slightest problem with the facts. Fact: Mary Kross' case is most directly related to the Reform Party Group. [[A voice from the hall.]] Who is a member of your group? Eerik-Niles Kross. Who's Mary Kross? Her husband. The most direct connections, the most direct connections! Blood isn't as liquid as water, blood is thicker than water. But all right, let's drop this argument right now. There was no action against Mary Kross, or it was closed out of public interest! To this day, the public doesn't care! You're telling me who's influencing politics. The Estonian Conservative People's Party was clearly accused of throwing stones at him and his dog. There's a statement from Mary Kross that men had an EKRE badge in their chest, but it wasn't stated in the indictment that she brought it up. And the court based its conclusion on the text of the charge, where this political moment had been rejected. Is this political influence or is it not? I'm sure we'll disagree here. [[A voice from the hall.]] Yeah, of course it wasn't, of course it wasn't, Helme's an idiot. Well, the Finns already know that an idiot can become Secretary of the Interior. But look, we have a difference of opinion here, and I think I have the right to disagree, okay? [[A voice from the hall.]] And I think that's a fact. I'll get another fact. November of the last year, right here in front of the Riigikogu, an anti-migration demonstration that had to be interrupted by a mix-up! Indrek Tarand. Indrek Tarand was arbitrarily on stage in violation of the convention law, interfering with a foreign demonstration. [[A voice from the hall.]] It was interpreted, by the way, as his involvement in the demonstration. It's not a participation. Come on, stop it! Stop it! The Reform Party is making some kind of demonstration that is registered, where there is a registered agenda, who will speak, who has the right to speak, who does not have the right to speak, that is your demonstration. And then I come over there, I rip a microphone out of Kaja Kallas' hand, I push him aside, I slam into that microphone, I start screaming some incoherent text, and it's not a riot! The law states very clearly what interference is and how it should be reacted to, and whether it is punishable or not punishable, how all these things are punishable, we have in the law. But the North District Attorney sent a case that accused two men of violence against Indrek Tarand in November of last year. As for tearing another person from the microphone by Tarand, raging, interfering with a meeting in an unambiguous way, the prosecutor's office took the view that every person has the right to express his or her mind and that the place that appeared in the Riigikogu, Toompea, is the right place to say his or her opinion. This right must remain for every person, and no one must fear that he will be attacked for saying his thoughts. After all, this is an explicit demagogue that is aimed at washing the person who has interfered with the demonstration. There is no other way for any sane and law-knowing person to interpret this, but the prosecutor's office has put forward such an interpretation. Whether this is a political statement, or not, we will definitely be holding different opinions on this. My emotional assessment says that it is about influencing politics and making an assessment of the situation based on certain political preferences, literally twisting the law. Let us take another fine example, which is most directly related to the Reform Party: the case of the Ministry of Rural Affairs. The previous minister of rural affairs, Mart Järvik, was, in your opinion, a huge corruption. I don't know what evil he'd done in Estonia and, of course, stood up for his people. [[A voice from the hall.]] But in reality, what has come out now? As such, listeria has a much wider scope. Today I learned that there have been very few listeriary analyses of imported fish, while one company was literally checked with hundreds and hundreds of inspections. And then what became clear? It turned out that at one point the prosecutor's office decided that an investigation had to be started on the counsel of Mart Järvik to clarify the suspicions as to whether he had represented someone's interests. Well, I'm asking, what about this investigation of suspicion today? And I say: nothing has been received, because the Minister for Rural Affairs is no longer Mart Järvik, his advisor is no longer Urmas Arumäe, and this matter has completely lost political motivation. Therefore, there is no point in dealing with it anymore. And if you're even dealing with it now, you're probably only dealing with pro forma in order to put a stop to this thing somehow. Is it political or is it not political? And now if we take a particularly ridiculous moment in this matter, the fact that the Viimsi municipality offers Illar Lemetti a job, well, I can't say. Well, I can't tell! [[A voice from the hall.]] After all, the connections are so obvious that it is not only the blind that can see. But all right, some of them are blind. And these are these examples, these factual examples. More, but more, dear friends! And yet, dear friends! Some time ago, I saw a broadcast on a television channel about how former public prosecutor Evestus tried to extort a false confession from Priit Kutser. I watched this TV show twice, and I watched it twice, not to misunderstand things. And it is clear that many people are told: Do you not understand what we want from you? Absolutely unambiguously, they say: Do you not understand what we want from you? But the Kusker didn't understand. The professional didn't understand! But what was lured into it? It was lured by the fact that we offer you an oportunity when you give false testimony. So, what is it? That's the kind of thing that should start a criminal case, but it didn't. And why didn't they start? But because, according to the statement, the prosecutor did not resort to physical violence against Kutser. Now it would have really been a cherry on the cake if the prosecutor's office of the Republic of Estonia had started using physical violence against someone! Look! [[A voice from the hall.]] That's what ex-Judge Leo Kunman says. Now let's move on. If you have any procedural questions, of course you can ask them in the meantime, but I'm answering a question now. [[A voice from the hall.]] Now let's move on. You want examples, you want a statement. (Voice of the floor: 'Facts! ') I will bring them to you. Those are the facts, they're the facts! [[Voices from the floor.]] What's not a fact here? The fact that Mary Kross got away with it isn't a fact? [[In the diner.]] That's a fact. The fact that no criminal case was initiated in the case of extortion from the professional is a fact. All the things I've brought before you are facts. [[In the diner.]] You're gonna give up, but I'm not gonna give up, and that's the difference between us. You think it is a rule of law, but I do not think it is a rule of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U159	Minister, I apologize once. Is it a procedural question, Kaja Kallas? Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U160	A procedural question. This is not Riigikogu Question Time, where the minister can simply talk about what he wants to say at the moment. We have been asking questions in writing, which we want answers to. The minister completely ignores these questions and talks about what he wants to hear about some of the conspiracy theories he's right about now. Has the Minister been explained to him about the questioning procedure: that there are questions and they should be followed by answers? A question by question should be answered, so that it is clear what it is talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U161	The Minister is certainly aware of this; he has repeatedly come to answer questions. So he answers to his best knowledge and you will be able to ask more specific questions. I hope that the Minister will remain within these frameworks and that the answer to questions and answers can be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U162	Basically, I can tell you that I have just answered the second and third questions: what does political influence of the prosecutor's office look like? That's what it looks like. As Minister of the Interior, have you presented factual evidence to the Minister of Justice? There's no justice to the minister, but I'm gonna give it to you right now. I believe the DA's office is politically biased. You're asking for my judgment, that's my judgment, and I'll answer you. And these are the facts. You can tell me that there are no facts for you, there are facts for me. We obviously have a completely different approach here, an opposite approach. And if we have empirically opposite approaches, what's wrong with that? Why can't we have empirically opposite approaches? The fact that you're talking to yourself in the meantime and arguing against me is also your right, of course, but I have now answered the first three questions. So, what analysis did you find that you could claim the political bias of the prosecutor's office?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U163	Minister, the time to answer the question is over, so now the remaining questions can be answered in response to the additional questions. If you are asked a question, you can also answer all of the following questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U164	Good, I'll get it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U165	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U166	It's not gonna be great what you did here again. I mean, if there's an inquiry, it'd be nice to answer that. But you didn't give me any examples of the DA's work here. You're talking about your feelings. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are not here as a citizen of Helme, you are here as a minister of the interior and a member of the government, and you must answer to this. But I'm asking you about a small case that you mentioned. I don't think Minister Järvik has been accused of any corruption. He wrote you a letter and said he had a bug in his office. I'm asking you to answer that question. Did you ask the research authorities if the bug was installed, and when it was installed, what happened to the bug? Or was it just a human misunderstood and he realized it was a Wi-Fi router?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U167	He wrote me a letter. By the time that letter got to me, he had left the office of minister. I didn't turn to anyone, and I haven't done any follow-up, but the machine he used to run that check showed that there was some kind of device. This information has also sounded in the public domain. They say the device was some kind of Wi-Fi amplifier. Maybe it was, I don't know. That's all, all the information I have on this thing. That's all I have.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U168	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U169	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You said we were gonna break in here like next door. We're not actually gonna break it. You are a member of the government, and even if you say something about what is not within your jurisdiction, we have every right to ask about it. And I'm gonna ask you about one of your arguments. In fact, you said that there is no independent force in Estonia. That's what you said. In my opinion, it is an independent, impartial and circumstances-based approach to work that is a characteristic of professionalism. I am asking you: are you saying that there are no professional civil servants in Estonia who respect their duties?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U170	I'm not saying that. There are tens of thousands of state officials in Estonia, and no doubt most of them are professionally and with great responsibility for their positions. But the fact is also that we have people appointed over a very long period of years on the basis of certain political considerations. And I also argue that we in the Republic of Estonia are constantly abused by the presumption of innocence, often at least in my opinion, on political motives. You think certain things, I think, on certain occasions, on political grounds, the presumption of innocence is abused. The same example of Marti Kuusik is one of such examples. And by the way, the new Attorney General has also pointed it out. He is asked in an interview published today: 'The opening banner of criminal investigations in the media is mostly impressive, starting with the press conference of the prosecutor's office, where suspicions have been presented to people freshly, often these suspects have been detained at the same time and cannot say anything to protect themselves, while they are already condemned to the public. As a rule, this disclosure will be followed by years of pre-trial investigation during which a person cannot defend himself. Do you see a problem with that? ' It's all put together here. Everything we are talking about is summarised here: political influence, political manipulation, making a wrong impression on the public about the possible guilt of people. So what does the new Attorney General say? 'Yeah, that's basically where I see the problem. For years, transparency and communication with the public have been an important principle in the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office, but one of the central principles of criminal proceedings is the presumption of innocence, perhaps before we have found someone guilty in court and agreed to put it on the label that you are a criminal, before that person must be considered innocent. " He adds that according to newspaper articles, no one can be blamed. This is what we have in the Republic of Estonia, and this has been happening for very long years. There is no doubt that the prosecutor's office has a very clear involvement and that is what the new Attorney General will say.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U171	Toomas Kivimägi, please, next question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U172	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! I promise to have a little opinion first. You repeatedly mentioned that most of your statements are your statements as a citizen, and you are entitled to do so. Of course it is, and you might think that way, but you actually have to think about the other side to which these messages are addressed. I think that 90% or 95% of these people will see you as the Minister of the Interior, as a member of the government, do not take these statements of opinion as the views of the citizen, they will not take them as the head of the EKRE. I think that, too, is quite important when making statements whether this other party takes your statements as a citizen's opinion or, as a result of your office, as a Minister of the Interior and a member of the Government. But here's my question. You referred in your previous reply to Attorney General Andres Parmas. I refer to the article published by Postimees in October, in which you expressed the view that you can stall with the candidate for minister until you get a suitable candidate for attorney general. Have you gotten yourself a suitable Attorney General today? You gave your approval.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U173	Yes, Raivo Time turned to me and not only to me, but also to other coalition partners when he came out with the nomination of Parmas. He gave us not too much time, but still enough time for us to get to know this candidate so that we can see what he's done, how his current "lawyer" hand has gone. We had questions about some of his social media posts, we got answers to those questions. And we found that he came from outside the DA's office, and that's why he's probably bringing in the DA's office, where maybe there's routine and certain stamps, fresh air, maybe he's changing a certain standard, a paradigm that's ruled there. And that's why we gave Parmas our approval. But as we all know, practice is a criterion of truth. In reality, we will see how he lives in and how we have a justice system, I would dare to say, 'I now very much choose the words 'fairly', not only in terms of appearance, but also in terms of fairness, things will develop in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U174	Echo Kallas, question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U175	Thank you. It is clear that officials have not helped you to prepare an answer to this question, so you simply do not answer these questions. The first question, for example, that you were happily slipping over. That question was, on the basis of which facts you claim that the prosecutor's office is acting on political motives. However, we are asking for these facts. But since you speak here in general, may I ask you to answer all these questions in writing, we are clear: the question-answer, the question-answer, and we get the information, you actually answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U176	Of course, the wishes of the ambassadors are God's orders. Of course, you can also get these answers in writing. But once again, the examples I gave you are the facts. And on the basis of these facts, we have assessed, I have also assessed that the prosecutor's office has clearly promoted a certain political agenda and intervened in day-to-day politics. That's my deep conviction, and you're not gonna be able to shake me in it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U177	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U178	Thank you. Good waitress! It was interesting to hear from the citizen Mart Helme a visually emotional response to the questions put to the Minister of the Interior, Helme. Of course, Minister Helme of the Interior would also like to hear the answers to these questions, but I understand that you will then answer us in writing, which is certainly nice. But before you get to the written answers, why don't we try again orally? What are you going to do to ensure political independence in research institutions? Maybe question number eight.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U179	What have I got here... It is very clear that we have already actually established, I would say, very good cooperation, discussion, exchange of ideas with the current Minister of Justice. We have drawn his attention to a few things that we believe need to be changed so that there is no impression of political bias. We certainly believe that we will also have a good dialogue with the new Attorney General. And we must also look seriously at the fact that our institution in Kadriorg does not act in a way that affects day-to-day policy, as it has repeatedly and repeatedly done. This is not in line with his mandate. In this regard, of course, we have a rather modest hope for dialogue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U180	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U181	Thank you. Mr. Mart Helme, you are talking very upset and emotionally about the presumption of innocence.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U182	On the contrary, I'm talking fun. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U183	You mean Marti Kuusik's trial, he's already been convicted before any conviction. But if we take the opposite case: the person has been found innocent at all stages of the trial, but they've been talking about ten million dollars for ten years. A man has long been found innocent, and yet he is not innocent. What's your assessment in this case? Well, then, how are we supposed to behave?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U184	Well, that's what I'm saying. It's not gonna shut the people's mouth. It's not me talking about it, it's the people. Read commentaries, read Facebook and these more! [[The fruit of Thomas says something out of place.]] I just gave you a fresh example. I haven't brought anyone's 10 million examples here right now. It is the mouth of the people, and the mouth of the people shall not shut. The people's mouths didn't even close the Stalinian repressions. And if you hope that it will be possible to close the mouth of the people in the present Republic of Estonia, then you have a very strange idea of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U185	Jüri Jaanson, can't ask another question, a member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask one question. Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U186	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister of the Interior! It's really good that you brought that people's mouth in here right now. I will come back to Mr Pevkur's question, which he did not receive an answer to. The people speak today, and the people know that the former Minister of Rural Affairs, Mart Järvik, was secretly eavesdropped, that there was a cloaked wiretapping device in his office. This apparent fact is firmly established among the people. My question is very specific: was there an eavesdropping device in the office of former Minister for Rural Affairs, Mart Järvik?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U187	Well, you got the answer. If you don't understand, I'll say it again. I can also write in block letters here somewhere on paper, after reading maybe you'll understand. Mart Järvik received a device from Henn Põllaasa that can be used to detect listening devices. These machines are moving, there's a lot of them. And by the way, we've been using this machine on other occasions. I can't remember the sound that this machine makes, the beeping noise it makes when there's some sort of thing that this machine thinks is suspicious, probably a listening device. It may not be a listening device, but it might be. In Mart Järvik's office, above his desk, this machine started beeping on something. Mart Järvik assumed it might be an eavesdropping machine and approached me to order a check with the competent equipment of the specialists in the organisation. It is a perfectly natural and normal appeal, one minister turns to the other, the Minister of the Interior, if he thinks it may be an eavesdropping. There is no way to ridicule or criminalise this idea. Since Mart Järvik resigned, this letter did not reach me until Monday, he sent it out on Thursday. Then I didn't take any further steps to order the inspection of our competent bodies there. Later I read somewhere on the news that it was identified as a Wi-Fi amplifier. I don't know who identified the means to determine whether it was a Wi-Fi amplifier or not, if there had been any wire-tapping devices in the meantime. I don't know that. If anyone wants to say today that there will be no wiretapping, I have even the statistics on how many eavesdroppers we have every year. There's hundreds of them, and we're actually wired. But I generally assume, using the deductive method, that if we take, for example, the Savisaar process and some other processes that have been much discussed in the press, it has turned out that not specific meetings were eavesdropped, but phones were eavesdropped. Phones! This means that when a permit has been granted, it is basically known at every moment where we are. It was, of course, the KGB's dream in its time that we would have carried a radio transmitter with us, which, if there is, can be monitored at absolutely any moment in time by an audience. But that's the answer: I don't know what it was, if there was anything there. I have not ordered, and I do not intend to order any follow-up at this time, because it clearly does not make sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U188	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U189	Thank you. It is quite funny to listen here to the way Mr. Minister is being asked for examples, and then, when these examples are being presented, they are no longer good and they are not facts either, even though they are actually really born cases and thus facts. This is where the listening story was touched. After all, Järvik has said that he checked with two machines and both alarmed the same place. This has not been contested by anyone, so let's say it's a fact. And then there was some completely blurry and anonymous statement in the press that didn't mention any source that was said to be a Wi-Fi router or its amplifier. At the same time Järvik later checked and found nothing there. Do you think it's possible to interpret this vagina in a magazine as the fact that there was a wifi machine?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U190	Once again, I have not had a visual or an audience or any other way of controlling it. These were Mart Järvik's words and actions that Mart Järvik did. Well, everyone believes what he believes. And when it's out there in the crowd, it's gonna be... But why do you think that if the people believe in such things, the people have come to the wrong conclusion? I think the people have very critical thinking and the people do not, the critical mass of the people do not draw the wrong conclusions. The critical mass comes from some sort of, I don't know, air-gravity sense. This is, of course, a story that no one can of course sign with either hand. But there's nothing to do about the people's mouths, if that's what the people think, if that's what they're talking about, then that's what the people think and that's what they're talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U191	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U192	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I have two questions. One is: How did former Minister Järvik even realize that he might have some sort of hidden wiretapping device in his office? And the second question is: if there is still a suspicion or a risk of a member of the government being eavesdropped, should one competent authority not be allowed to check it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U193	Two questions, though, of course, in general, there should be one question. The first question is how he came up with it. But very simply: he heard from one of his subordinates a story that it couldn't have known in any way other than because of it. Two people had said this in Mart Järvik's office. He had doubts about it. Maybe it's a coincidence. You can lay your hands here and ridicule it, maybe it was a coincidence, maybe. But he had doubts about it. Now, why wasn't there any control? Because events developed so quickly and there was no point in doing this control anymore. And as Mr. Põllaas said, when Järvik himself tried to recheck the same place with the apparatus, the apparatus stopped signaling. That, too, could be the answer. Maybe it's a coincidence I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. But as Mr. Stalin said, of course, I am once again called a desirer back in the Soviet era, Jossif Vissarionovich Stalin: 'Isn't it too much coincidence? ' Isn't that too many coincidences?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U194	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U195	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Replying to this question has gone very deeply into the subject of eavesdropping. I am also asking about this subject. I, too, became a member of the government, as Minister of Agriculture, the subject of so-called eavesdropping. I was eavesdropped as minister. Later, I was informed, and then I went to the ward to listen to those episodes that were eavesdropped. As a result, I am now asking you: as a member of your government and Minister of the Interior, what do you think about whether too much is being listened to in the Republic of Estonia and the relevant bodies are abusing this right or listening too little, should more be done, or is it now? What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U196	It's hard to judge. If we compare with other countries, in terms of population, we can say that we have a massive increase in eavesdropping than, for example, Sweden and Finland. However, if we take absolute numbers, if I remember correctly, I dare not now say exactly whether in 2017 or 2018 we had just under 700 legal eavesdroppings. I say again, I might be wrong here in a year, whether it was one year or another, and I'm not going to say exactly that number, but a little under 700 formal eavesdropping passes were granted. If we have some ten thousand criminal cases per year, I may again be mistaken for the definition of whether a criminal case or a case, not all of these things stand exactly, literally in mind, it will be less than 10%. Whether this kind of round 7% is little or much is again a question of assessment. It is difficult for me to make a very watery and adequate assessment on my part. However, I am not so paranoid that I think we are having a massive politically motivated eavesdropping. That is certainly the case, and certainly the prosecutor's office has given it its acceptance from time to time, or the courts will depend on how it is put into practice, and it will be possible to do this in many ways in formality. But it is also common practice in democratic countries. In order to prevent crime, to prevent crime, to obtain material to prove the crimes committed, to do so and to remain within the limits of normality, the Code and civil control, it is acceptable. The question is, will it? But, yeah, these numbers, the magnitudes are like that. I think that 7% is already relatively close to maximum.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U197	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions. Now is the opportunity to open negotiations. The wish for negotiations has been revealed. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U198	Thank you. We have already had the opportunity to make sure that the Minister does not know his role, does not know what the Minister should do or how to deal with enquiries. If there are questions, you could have answers. Minister, it seems that you also do not know that the Minister's word has weight and, in some ways, the word of a politician is an act. If anything is claimed, these claims should also be able to be substantiated. As I said, the Minister has repeatedly claimed that the prosecutor's office was politically biased, but he could not bring the facts. All we heard were estimates that he thought it was one thing or another. We heard a series of conspiracy theories, which we've heard from the Minister of the Interior several times before, and these conspiracy theories are getting very dynamic. Therefore, I would like to mention once again in the verbatim report that the Minister promised to provide written answers to our questions. What's troubling me? I am concerned that the Minister does not know that there are investigative bodies under his authority who carry out preliminary investigation procedures and who actually collect evidence in order to be able to initiate a case against someone. It also seems that the Minister does not know that discreet surveillance without permission is a crime and that discreet monitoring without permission is a crime even when the minister changes. This does not mean that if the person being eavesdropped is no longer a minister, it is as if the whole problem has disappeared. No, it's not. If the eavesdropping was not authorised by court order, and indeed someone was eavesdropping the minister, who is a member of the government, if it was unsanctioned, then those who carried it out must be prosecuted in criminal proceedings. Or a clear answer must be given that the minister lied, hidden monitoring was not carried out, and that claim was wrong. Such a thing must not be left in the air that the Minister, a member of the Government of the Republic of Estonia, may be eavesdropped. It could be that people get that impression. I need to know who was eavesdropping on whether he had permission for it. And if you didn't have a permit, you'd have to initiate criminal proceedings to prosecute the perpetrator. There's no way it's gonna stay in the air. And I hope we don't have our questions hanging in the air, which we'll be waiting for written answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U199	Thank you. There is no more negotiation request. Can I consider this inquiry to be complete? No one wants to say anything else, nor does the Minister want to comment anymore. This enquiry has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U200	We are going to the next item on the agenda, or the fifth item on the agenda, which is the question of the regulations on e-cigarettes submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Madis Milling, Valdo Randpere, Heiki Kranich, Vilja Toomasti, Andrus Seeme and Signe Riisalo on 3 December 2019 (No 14). The representative of the heirs is Madis Milling, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U201	Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, who are still in this Chamber! You would think that everything about electronic cigarettes is a third-rate issue that only interests a small interest. But take your finger! The passions around this subject, even here in the Riigikogu, have been raging for a long time. Everyone who was in the previous Riigikogu remembers a legendary sitting at the end of the previous composition, when the Minister of Social Affairs at that time made ultimative conditional demands to the Riigikogu in a style that if the amendments you tabled pass, I will withdraw the draft. The work of the Riigikogu stood for more than an hour because a prime minister was sought to state his position on it. But that's it. To a specific question. This inquiry was prompted by the problems encountered by the public via the media over the last six months in relation to electronic cigarettes. Parents and teachers, as well as members of the smoke-free association of Estonia of the Riigikogu, have drawn attention to the unacceptable situation in which young people trade e-cigarettes in social media, schools and streets. The media also mention the increase in border trade in e-cigarettes. The problem of mixing electronic cigarette liquids themselves has also been highlighted, which could prove very dangerous if the wrong components are used. The users of electronic cigarettes warned of these problems when the previous Riigikogu discussed the regulation of e-cigarettes. Those warnings were not heard at the time. The Chancellor of Justice has also pointed out: 'On the basis of the explanatory memorandum to the draft law on tobacco and other materials, it cannot be said that the draft has dealt with the problems of restrictions in detail. Among other things, issues related to border trade and the impact of passive smoking on smokers of e-cigarettes in places intended for smoking have not been analysed. ' And now most important: 'Neither do the materials related to the draft appear that the opinion of the European Commission has been forwarded to the Riigikogu, according to which the total prohibition of flavours in e-liquids should be more justified. ' This last information that the European Commission's opinion was not communicated to the Riigikogu at the time prompted us to ask six questions to the Minister of Social Affairs. I am not going to read these questions, I hope the Minister of Social Affairs will read these questions himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U202	Thank you. Now I would like to ask Minister of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiige, to respond to an inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U203	Honourable Riigikogu! I respond to questions from members of the Riigikogu about regulations concerning e-cigarettes. They asked me to read the questions. Let's start with this. The first question: 'Is it true that the European Commission gave the Ministry of Social Affairs the opinion that the total ban on flavours in e-liquids should be more justified? " In the framework of the notification procedure laid down in Directive 2015/1535, the Estonian authorities informed the Commission on 13 December 2016 of the draft law amending the Tobacco Act and the Commission in turn submitted its comments on 3 March 2017. In the process of notification of a technical regulation, the Commission shall be provided with a draft proposed restriction and a brief justification for the imposition of the restriction. The original notification did not include an extract from the explanatory memorandum as the procedure does not require it. Indeed, the European Commission asked for a more detailed justification than the initial notification to be given in the notification of prohibition of flavourings in e-liquids. Comments from the European Commission. The Commission agrees with the proposed measures, health objectives and justifications set out in the Communication. At the same time, the Commission considers that the prohibition of all flavouring substances other than tobacco flavours in e-liquids is not sufficiently justified and the draft proposal should specify why all flavouring substances are considered attractive for young people. In response to the European Commission's comments, the Ministry of Social Affairs of 12 March 2017 sent a statement of the corresponding point in the explanatory memorandum to the Law amending the Tobacco Act. The European Commission services thanked the Estonian authorities for their reply and the reply was considered exhaustive. The second question: 'Did the Ministry of Social Affairs give the European Commission's opinion to the Riigikogu, according to which the total prohibition of flavours in e-liquids should be more justified? If so, when was the opinion of the European Commission communicated to the Riigikogu and to whom? If the opinion was not forwarded to the Riigikogu, why was it not? ' The European Commission's comments were not submitted to the Riigikogu in the process of the draft 357 procedure, as all additional information provided by the European Commission was already in the form of an explanatory memorandum to the draft submitted to the Riigikogu. In turn, an extract of the draft explanatory memorandum was forwarded to the European Commission. Perhaps documents related to notification 2016/06/48/EE were submitted on 27 November 2019 to Tarmo Kruusimäe, a member of the Riigikogu, at his request, by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Question 3: "What reply did the Ministry of Social Affairs give to the European Commission's opinion? " This whole answer is very long. I'm going to read some parts of it. If you want, I can send it in writing. But it is in the explanatory memorandum to the corresponding bill. In response to the European Commission's comment, the Ministry of Social Affairs sent an extract of 357 of the SE's explanatory memorandum on 12 March 2017, as indicated. I'll get some clips here. 'In response to the comments made by the European Commission, we will further clarify the ban on flavours in nicotine and nicotine-free electronic cigarettes in liquids. Since e-cigarettes are alternative products for tobacco products, which are used for similar purposes and similar purposes, Estonia has taken a political direction towards equalising these products with tobacco products. It is therefore also justified to prohibit the use of flavourings other than tobacco. The ban has been introduced with the exception of tobacco taste and smell, because, based on the principle of equal treatment of products, no stricter restriction on e-cigarettes than on tobacco products can be imposed. Furthermore, the prohibition does not preclude the use of flavouring or sugars necessary for production, provided that they do not give the product any flavour or odour other than tobacco and do not significantly or measurablely increase its addictive effects or other health-related properties. Flavourings used in e-cigarette liquids are one of the main marketing elements of this product and are currently known to have more than 7500 flavours. Flavourings make the product attractive to young minors. Producers and sellers of e-cigarettes advertise their product as an alternative to quit smoking and there is evidence that some adult people also use e-cigarettes for this purpose. However, there is so far little evidence of the effectiveness of e-cigarettes as a means of quitting smoking. In the case of minors and young adults, it is known that they start using e-cigarettes primarily out of curiosity and that different tastes play an important role in this. The results of a US study showed that minors and young adults preferred e-cigarettes with different tastes, while adults who used cigarettes and e-cigarettes at the same time preferred tobacco-flavoured e-cigarettes when starting using e-cigarettes, but later moved on to the use of different flavours. ' One important extract from the same explanatory memorandum and from the same explanation to the Commission is that 35.7% of boys and 28.4% of girls had tried electronic cigarettes at least once among 11-, 13- and 15-year-olds, according to the 2014 Health Behaviour Survey. These are alarmingly high points. In the 16-64-year-olds, consumption increased threefold compared to 2012. Preliminary data from the 2016 Population Health Behaviour Survey show that the share of daily use of electronic cigarettes is the same as in 2014, for example, while the share of daily use among young adults increased almost twice (they are 16 to 24 years old). These data show that electronic cigarettes are particularly attractive for young people. As has been said, I can send all this reply in a longer form, it is an extract from the explanatory statement. Question 4: 'Please give a precise overview of the arguments that the Ministry of Social Affairs explained to the European Commission about the ban on the tastes of e-liquids? ' Basically, this answer is given in the answer to the previous question. In addition, the reply to the European Commission also states that as e-cigarettes are alternative products for tobacco products, which are used for similar purposes and similar purposes, Estonia has taken a political direction towards equalising these products with tobacco products. The statement of reasons of the European Commission is based on a decision approved at the Cabinet meeting of the Government of the Republic on 1 December 2016, on the basis of which, on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, the ban on adding flavours to e-cigarettes is included in the Tobacco Act, with the exception of tobacco flavours and flavours. Question 5: 'Please provide an accurate overview of which studies on e-cigarettes, including e-liquid flavours, have been commissioned by public authorities or, for example, carried out by the National Institute for Health Development? ' In this context, it would point out that ensuring product safety and carrying out such studies is the responsibility of the company that brings electronic cigarettes or their filling packs to Estonia or produces them in Estonia, in accordance with both the Tobacco Products Directive and the Classification, Labelling and Packaging of Chemicals, or the CLP Regulation. Paragraph 102 of the Tobacco Act, entitled "Communicating the composition of electronic cigarettes and refill containers', lays down the obligations of sellers and producers of electronic cigarettes. An entrepreneur who brings or produces electronic cigarettes or their refill containers or electronic cigarettes and their refill containers to or from Estonia shall submit an electronic report to the Health Board six months before the product is intended to be placed on the market for any significant change. The report shall include, by brand and type of product, a list of all the ingredients contained in the product and the substances and their quantities released by use of the product, as well as toxicological data on the components of the product and the substances emitted by them, inter alia, by heating, in particular their health effects by inhalation and addictive effects. An entrepreneur who brings or produces electronic cigarettes or their refill containers or electronic cigarettes and their refill containers to or from Estonia is obliged to create and maintain a system for collecting information about the adverse effects of these products on human health. Question 6: Can you confirm that the regulation of e-cigarettes is based on the principle that health policy must be evidence-based and that evidence on different aspects of regulation of e-cigarettes has been used? ' Estonia's health policy, indeed, including tobacco policy, is based on the principle of evidence and proposals are based on scientific evidence (measures on health effects), and social, economic and cultural aspects are also taken into account. In this context, it should be stressed that only materials from research that meet the quality requirements of research should be considered evidence-based and that the results of the research should be interpreted correctly. The Ministry of Social Affairs is concerned about unproven claims about e-cigarettes, which show that e-cigarettes are safer than reality. Evidence also requires constant monitoring of new developments in the scientific world. In this context, it should be noted that e-cigarettes have been subject to significant evidence since 2016 or 2017 and that health risks caused by e-cigarettes are increasingly being introduced and identified. Additional information has also been provided on flavourings used in e-liquids. In 2015, when the amendments to the Tobacco Act were prepared, the draft did not initially include a ban on the use of flavourings in e-liquids, but based on the decision of the Government's Cabinet meeting of 1 December 2016, which I referred to earlier, was included in the draft restriction on fragrances. Yeah, that's what I'm gonna finish up with right now, and I'm gonna answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U204	Ladies and gentlemen, there are questions for you. A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U205	Thank you. Good minister! Well, for starters, just a little note. As far as I know, the sale of tobacco products to minors and their use by minors in Estonia are prohibited. So we cannot talk about changing the tobacco law and transposing regulations just because we are doing these things because we are doing this law to children. But the question actually concerns another matter. Estonia had to transpose the European Union Tobacco Directive, we will call it that in short, by 20 May 2019. However, Estonia is the only country in the European Union that has not yet transposed the articles of the directive concerning the so-called track and track and also the regulation of the introduction of novel non-smoking tobacco products on the market. The European Commission has the full right to open infringement proceedings. You know, these fines amount to hundreds of thousands. My question is why Estonia has not transposed the Tobacco Directive almost a year later when it was supposed to be in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U206	Thank you for your question. First of all, speaking of young people and children, of course, all the products that are on the market, whether or not they are allowed, reach minors in a way or, unfortunately, very often. This is a problem for both alcohol and tobacco products, and therefore it is justified to treat young people as a separate target group, because we do not want them to be used. As far as the "track-and-trace" directive is concerned, it is actually the Government of the Republic, if I am not mistaken, even initiated and forwarded to the Riigikogu at my first sitting. After all, this is the decision of the Riigikogu, at what pace this bill or directive will be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U207	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U208	Thank you very much. Indeed, we are talking about children and young people, but we are still talking about an adult product. This is not a product problem, it is a seller and a problem of availability. But all right, according to the logic of the Ministry of Social Affairs, my question is for you: but maybe we could make alcohol less attractive to young people, ban sweet alcoholic beverages, such as ciders and long drinks, and sell only pure vodka at the store? Would it serve the same purpose as banning the tastes of e-cigarettes?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U209	Thank you very much for your question. If we're talking about different alcoholic products, alcoholic beverages, then I agree that the sort that looks back at the store could be smaller. I think that nothing would happen if we really had more natural alcoholic beverages (if considered necessary) and more non-alcoholic, substitute drinks in Estonia, there would not necessarily be so many different effervescent, colored and flavoured alcoholic beverages. So in this view, I totally agree. Well, I'm not gonna sign for vodka.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U210	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U211	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good waitress! On 13 February last year, you were the Prime Minister's advisor, the same day as the silence arose in the Riigikogu because the Prime Minister was sought, he was found, he gave his views, and you were familiar with it. Now you have become the Minister of Social Affairs yourself (the Minister of Social Affairs was then, on 13 February, the one who said that he wanted to interrupt the reading if these changes were voted in). What have you done to ensure that members of the Riigikogu are well informed about this issue? I dare say that you have been familiar with this problem since 13 February. Do the members of the Riigikogu have all the necessary information and it has been transmitted?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U212	Thank you very much for your question. For the sake of the protocol, I would like to make it clear that the Minister for Health and Labour did give an opinion on this draft at the time. The post of Minister of Social Affairs was re-established on 29 April 2019. But as far as this particular issue is concerned, of course I have been actively involved in the meetings of the Social Committee when this issue has been addressed, I have met several Members of Parliament on their initiative and at their request, including you, and of course I am ready to meet with committees, political groups and other members of the Riigikogu, to answer written questions, as well as to answer questions, as here today. Each member of the Riigikogu must certainly assess whether he has received sufficient answers to his questions, enough information, or if he wishes to get more. Well, I'm willing to give it more, as much as I can.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U213	Tiit Kala, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U214	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. On the basis of what studies has the Ministry decided not to support the amendments to the Tobacco Act and found that, despite the market situation described in the media, there is no need to change the regulation of e-cigarettes?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U215	Thank you very much for your question. Many of these reasons are mentioned in this inquiry. Indeed, different international practices, experiences, contacts with the World Health Organisation, contacts with ministers from other countries, contacts with the Ministry of Social Affairs, doctors, a very wide range of people from both Estonia and abroad. I have to admit that, at various meetings both in the Commission and perhaps elsewhere, not many health professionals, people in this area and, in fact, international experts have considered it necessary to relax the regulation of e-cigarettes, but rather the opposite. I like it very much, I have said this before, the Finnish state's view that they are dealing with nicotine endgame, or the goal is really to free people from addiction. Different 'intermediaries', they are then e-cigarettes or other possible tobacco products, rather perhaps you could say that this dependence is just prolonging rather than helping to overcome it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U216	Thank you. No further questions to the addressee. Thank you, Minister. Now is the opportunity to start negotiations. Tarmo Kruusimäe has expressed the wish for negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U217	Good vice chairman! Happy two former Minister for Social Affairs and one Minister for Social Affairs today! I would have had another question like this... Yeah, who's been doing the same thing. No, Helmen was chairman of the committee at the time when we were regulating and over-regulating this e-cigarette again. Minister Kiik referred here to the fact that this material was sent to Tarmo Kruusimäe, a member of the Riigikogu. But the question is that neither Tarmo Kruusimäe represents the Riigikogu alone, but all members of the Riigikogu. That date you said was November 19th, wasn't it? You had it on paper, but for me, we've come... 12? [[There's an answer in the hall.]] 27? Right! Okay. Instead, it has come to me from the Department of Product Safety and Consumer Protection of the Internal Market Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. It states that hello, I will subsequently forward to you with the Estonian notification this and this messages, and first I will send the European Commission's comment, such messages are marked 'limited', which means that their content is not intended to be disclosed to third parties, although they may be consulted by persons involved in the draft procedure and the transmission of such messages is regulated precisely by the EU regulation. I asked, of course, that the official wouldn't be in any trouble because he had still put Thea Palm and Triinu Star as addressees, and I asked how to proceed with this information, after all, the members of the Social Affairs Committee could actually be there. I have this conversation. Unlike maybe the surprise they call us, maybe we hook up on Kruus Hill, that he's running somewhere with it, I haven't shared that information with anyone. However, I do think that the Committee on Social Affairs and the Chairman of the Commission, if he knows such things, could demand that everyone know what then the Estonian state actually replied to the European Commission. What's come up with that? It is not correct, in my opinion, if we are actually talking today about the deaths of tobacco, with which we are in third place. What has the Ministry done since then? In fact, I have exactly the same question for the officials of the Ministry of Finance. When the case was pending on 13 February, we proposed to reduce the excise duty on e-cigarette. Today, I hear that officials, in November last year, went to a round table at the Ministry of Finance, where all this was discussed, and when there was a concrete will to reduce excise duty in the coalition, some officials were still kicking, and now said that we could get together on 10 February, then we will start collecting data to analyse whether we could reduce excise duty to some extent. Maybe then we can talk about the possibility of reducing this excise duty, reducing border trade, reducing the black market from 1 January 2021. By 1 June, you won't be able to make it. The Ministry's officials actually knew in December 2018 that such a calculation had been carried out. Today we are here, on 13 January 2020, and note that these same officials say: we will by no means make it by 1 June 2020, but by 2021. This is not, in my opinion, correct behaviour and, in my opinion, correct behaviour is not, either, as a minister... Yes, we met and we talked and we pointed out that there were such problems, and I informed you that the Chancellor of Justice had both referred to the need for more clarification, and also the Court of Justice. Tonight, the whole thing just came up with me, I don't know where the letter is from, that there are documents here, that's limited, just take note of it. My question to the Minister was just this, and probably also to those who questioned, whether the members of the Social Affairs Committee and the large Chamber of the Riigikogu have the right to know things, in a situation where we are in third place with the death of tobacco, or whether we have to depend simply on the discretion of the officials to whom they send a message and to whom they do not. I want a proper approach, because the people of Estonia love life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U218	Thank you. The desire for further negotiations has not been revealed. The addressee of the enquiry shall also be able to comment on questions and speeches if he so wishes. Please, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U219	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Since, in my opinion, a completely new question was raised here, compared to an inquiry, I will answer so much. It seemed to me, however, that it was rather clear from the reply sent to you that the persons involved in the draft procedure, of whom the Committee on Social Affairs is undoubtedly a member, have the right of access to and possession of these documents. Perhaps if the Social Affairs Committee had this wish, it would certainly be possible to get the overview that was sent to you when it came to me, when it came to the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U220	Thank you. This enquiry is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U221	We are going to the next item, this is the sixth item, and this is the inquiry for pharmaceutical policy submitted on 11 February 2019 by members of the Riigikogu, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Kalvi Tõud, Ivari Padari, Heljo Pikhof, Jaak Juske, Helmen Küti, Riina Sikkut, Katri Raigi, Lauri Läänemets and Indrek Saare (No 18). Representative of the heirs, member of the Riigikogu Jevgeni Ossinovski, the Chair is yours.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U222	Thank you very much. The representatives of the niche topics left, but then let's go to really important questions. And that's right, pharmaceutical policy. The inquiry with our colleagues was submitted on 11 December, when we remembered here that we had in full swing an attempt to turn the reform of the pharmacy into a ditch, representing the interests of large companies, which unfortunately failed, this draft fell out of the Riigikogu proceedings in December. Consequently, in this question, where we ask the Minister for Social Affairs for an opinion on the reform of the pharmacy and, more generally, on the policy directions and plans for pharmaceuticals, some references to a specific draft which fell out of the procedure are somewhat outdated. However, since the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu do not provide an opportunity to improve the questioning, we specify in this oral presentation that the Minister of Social Affairs has the opportunity to give his assessment of the draft which fell out of the Riigikogu procedure. But more broadly, we would like to know how the Government of the Republic and the Minister of Social Affairs see today's situation on the pharmaceutical market, in a situation where, in a few months' time, in accordance with the law that has entered into force, there should be extensive restructuring on the pharmaceutical market, but where, despite the fact that the will of the Riigikogu, expressed in several votes, has been clear, there is a certain, say, uncertainty about whether, on 1 April, however, things will go as they have been written in the law today. Fortunately, in the last month, after this grotesque attempt to pamper entrepreneurs against the patient's interests, the Estonian press has also undertaken and discovered a lot about how the current market situation is actually detrimental to society and how Estonian patients pay for the excessive costs of pharmaceutical merchants. There have been a number of broader issues that we would like to discuss with the Minister of Social Affairs today. Well, the minister can read the questions himself in a modification that suits him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U223	Thank you. Mr. Minister Tanel Kiik, the Chair is yours to answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U224	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! On 11 September 2019 the Group of the Social Democratic Party really asked me about the pharmaceutical policy. It was motivated, as indicated, by the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law 118. The truth is that the life span of this particular draft was not too long in Parliament, the draft has already been voted out of the procedure today, so we are talking about a 'posthumous draft'. But all right. More specifically, to the questions. The first question: 'The State Audit Office concluded in the 2012 report that the lack of substantive competition between wholesalers of medicinal products does not ensure an optimal price for patients. 1.04.20 The provisions enter into force introduce a ban on vertical integration, which opens up the wholesale market to actual competition, as retail pharmacies that are independent of wholesale distribution can choose a wholesaler. The actual competition will lead to a fall in the price of medicines, as confirmed by the fact that hospital pharmacies, for example, are already receiving medicines significantly more favourable than retail pharmacies from wholesale distribution. Do you think the draft initiated by the Riigikogu is in the interest of today's wholesale companies? ' I will reply briefly that the draft medicine law 118 actually initiated three groups of the Riigikogu. Personally, I also agree that the wholesale market for medicinal products in Estonia, looking at the facts, is quite concentrated in the hands of a few major wholesalers and the competitive situation is not what it could be. The Estonian pharmaceutical market is characterised by high market concentration and vertical interconnection between wholesale and retail levels. This also means that wholesalers who inspect pharmacies clearly have a considerable power to impose conditions on manufacturers of medicinal products entering the market. This, in turn, may affect the choice of medicines and the development of prices to the detriment of the patient. In order to improve the competitive situation, the Riigikogu is in fact 2014. After all, the pharmacy reform was launched in 2009. As far as this particular draft law is concerned, we, yes, in the view of the Ministry of Social Affairs, have said so, as Minister of Social Affairs, I have supported the objective of this particular draft. In our opinion, these decisions and all these points may not have been justified to the end. Question 2: 'Does the draft initiated by the Riigikogu lower the price of medicines? ' It is a question of the draft that has been initiated, which, once again, is no longer in the process. But on the basis of an assessment by the Agency, it seemed rather that a specific draft would not have solved the problems on the pharmacy market and the entry into force of the provisions of the draft as a law would probably not have contributed to a more competitive development of pharmaceutical prices in the market either. The third question: 'What steps are you planning to take to control the surplus profits of pharmaceutical companies and to protect the patient's interests? " I well agree that the state has undoubtedly a duty to protect human health. The pharmacy's service is now a world-view issue, in my opinion, in any case part of primary health care. Perhaps the aim is to provide people with high quality health care, not necessarily to maximise business interests or profits. The task of the state, in turn, is to ensure that the pharmacy service is available to all residents as a health care service. The main objective of the pharmacy reform has been to protect the interests of the patient and to improve the quality of service, in addition to separating retail and wholesale distribution of medicines. In particular, when it comes to prices, the profits of today's pharmaceutical companies, the profits themselves are, of course, not prohibited in a free country, but the strengthening of national supervision and the price regulation of the pharmaceutical sector is obviously necessary. It is not necessarily sufficient to provide for additional procedural rights for the Agency in order to achieve effective supervision of the mark-up of medicinal products. In fact, it often comes down to the wholesale purchase price, which cannot always be verified, and there is no point in regulating mark-ups as such. In other words, the State can only control the formation of the purchase price if the law clearly provides for a competent public authority which can actually verify the formation of the purchase price to obtain the relevant information and, if it is found to be incorrect, to issue injunctions in this case. This concerns not only the regulation of mark-ups, but is also important for the Estonian Health Insurance Fund in relation to the introduction of maximum prices for preferential medicines. Insufficient price regulation is likely to have created an opportunity to circumvent the established thresholds under certain conditions. Certainly, this is neither reasonable nor patient-driven practice. Obviously, when we are talking about the economic regulation of a specific sector with a high market concentration, it is appropriate to draw up a comprehensive legislative package and set up a regulator for the pharmaceutical sector and to ensure that the latter has sufficient funding and capacity to perform market surveillance functions. In the case of a retail and wholesale mark-up model, the question of how the actual purchase price of a wholesaler is to be determined, which are the procedural means necessary for that purpose, needs to be addressed first, and, inter alia, consideration should be given to putting a corresponding burden of proof on wholesalers. Question 4: "To what kind of expertise did Prime Minister Jüri Ratas support when he gave the coalition his consent to reject the drug policy expertise of the Ministry of Social Affairs and to deal with the draft 118 SE? ' I do not agree with the argument put forward in this regard. Of course, however, the Ministry of Social Affairs has been involved in these pharmacy reform discussions from the outset. It is true that the pharmacy reform was initiated initially by the previous parliamentary assembly, the Social Affairs Committee then. It is no secret that these debates have been held in the previous, previous and current composition of the Riigikogu. Of course, the Ministry of Social Affairs has always been able to highlight its positions, my positions, which I did in these discussions, both publicly and at the meetings of the working group. For a moment in history: in order for you to know the idea that wholesalers of medicinal products should not own pharmacies, the Riigikogu was actually discussed as early as 2004. The Competition Authority was then of the opinion that the right of wholesalers to have pharmacies would worsen the competitive situation. Even then, it was actually a clear principle that the entire chain of treatment of medicinal products should be independent of each other in order to avoid possible abuses in the market for medicinal products or vital goods. As far as the reform of the pharmacy is concerned, there have really been very different opinions on the table, various proposals. One could say that if there are five political groups in the Riigikogu, there are at least twice as many proposals. Indeed, there have been different visions and perceptions among all political groups, within political groups and between political groups. Personally, at the end of last year, I, for my part, proposed how this reform of the pharmacy should be implemented smoothly, perhaps we put on the table our compromise proposal, which would still mean that the reform of the pharmacy would be carried out in three years, but in a somewhat smoother, somewhat calmer form than it would be from 1 April 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U225	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U226	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It is your answer from practically the last sentence that I now accept to ask my question. The media has been able to read and hear from your interviews that you have offered a proposal to implement the Pharmacy Reform in three years. Now my question is whether this is your personal vision or whether this vision is shared by the entire government. Actually, I'm asking you this because when you talk about pharmaceutical policy, it's very sensible, very competent, very competent. If you allow me one comment, it seems to me that one of the most competent ministers in this government is you. For some reason, your coalition partners have unfortunately not taken your opinion seriously. That's why the question now is how you're going to proceed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U227	Thanks for the questions. On the subject of the reform of the pharmacy, indeed, as I said, there have been different opinions in all Parliaments. After all, today in Parliament, the party that has initiated the lifting of the reform of the pharmacy has voted against it. This already shows a change in their views. It is also true that there are more opinions in the Central Party Group and in all other coalition groups, based on communication, than the number of political groups indicates. Perhaps we can continue the negotiations, continue the discussions. It is true that we do not have too long negotiating period in time. It makes sense to reach agreements, as a smoother entry into force of the pharmaceutical reform is certainly a better option than perhaps a sharp restructuring of the market, which does not give enough time to market participants, patients, public authorities. Personally, I think that one of the originals of the Pharmacy Reform may have made mistakes now, but the lessons from the background are that I should have written these stages right from the beginning, these stages envisaged. This would certainly have allowed a smoother transition and perhaps less situations such as those we saw in December, when indeed there was a short time, but still a considerable amount of pharmacies closed at very short notice, which certainly did not contribute to patient and public health and certainly did not contribute to a peaceful and mutually respectful debate on the reform of the pharmacy. So let's continue the discussions. What's coming out of here? This depends primarily on the views and opinions of the three or actually all five groups of the Riigikogu. This will probably become clear in the coming weeks or months at the latest.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U228	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U229	Thank you. Dear Minister, In fact, this five-year period had been given to allow for a 'phase-over'. Let's just say it was time to set the pace. But now, when it comes to pharmaceutical reform, last week's Spectator showed that hospital pharmacies are buying medicines much cheaper than chain pharmacies. It turned out that last year alone, patients paid nearly EUR 20 million more than they should. How can retail pharmacies also benefit from more favourable medicines? Do you have a plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U230	Thank you for your question. It is true that one of the possible starting points for the reform of the pharmacy is that the separation of retail and wholesale markets creates serious competition between wholesalers, which gives the pharmacy owners the opportunity to choose the best providers of services and products and, in turn, also obliges wholesalers to compete with marketing authorisation holders in the negotiation of contractual terms and the import of medicines. Certainly, the reform of the pharmacy could take a step forward in this direction. As has been said, in fact, this issue of transparency, the issue of price regulation and the issue of price negotiations are important. There is no doubt that both the Minister of Social Affairs and the Agency have worked on this subject and will continue to do so, regardless of whether the pharmacy reform should enter into force at the same time, in stages or whether the Riigikogu should consider it necessary to make any major changes to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U231	Thank you. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U232	Austet President! Good minister! I wonder what kind of spirit you work as a member of the government and what your influence on this matter is within the coalition. Have you given your ministry and sub-offices the task of making an effort to ensure that in all those settlements where there is not yet any legal pharmacy, a solution is found and that medicines are available? Or do you actually continue to lack the support of the coalition on this issue, and we are again seeing perhaps an embarrassing attempt in this Chamber to hold back this very necessary reform with the purchased bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U233	Thank you for your question. Of course, the Ministry and the Agency, in cooperation with the House of pharmacists and the various players in the market, are already working to ensure that the pharmacy service is guaranteed in each settlement. Today it can be said, in the axe method, that 120 of the 150 largest settlements in Estonia are all in general order, 20 are active and more questions and there are more worries in the 10.11 settlements where a pharmacist's owner interested in setting up a pharmacy that meets the requirements of the pharmacy reform has not yet been found. But we're working on it. This is also one of the reasons why this phase-by-step changeover was proposed in order precisely to avoid a situation where, even during the transitional period, there would be settlements in Estonia where the pharmacy service is not available. As far as the influence or lack of influence of various ministers is concerned, of course, the health sector is enormous, in addition to which I have a number of sectors to curate. This work is mainly done by the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Agency and various agencies. I believe that this objective, when we are talking about access to the pharmacy service, is shared by the whole coalition, and I am quite certain that today's opposition too. Maybe we don't have any disagreements here. Differences in opinion may indeed be limited to the way in which it would be best to provide this pharmacy service and reasonable pharmaceutical prices to people. Indeed, there have been more opinions here in the coalition, and often also in the opposition in the various parliamentary formations, than there have been parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U234	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U235	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! Indeed, in the last month, the press has done a very good job. Whatever channel the data has compared, in fact, everyone has reached the same conclusion that the National Audit Office already made in 2012 that our patients pay too much for medicines bought from pharmacies. The representative of ERR Tamro admitted that the wholesaler is offering hospitals a cheap price in the form of a discount not shown to the health insurance fund, and 'at the end of the month, the manufacturer reports to the manufacturer the discounts made for each transaction that the manufacturer will compensate the trader afterwards'. This is the same thing that you described, that the way that this basic price, to which the mark-up will be added, is opaque and we do not control it. No matter how the pharmacy reform moves forward, in fact, this control of the evolution of retail and wholesale prices would be needed, as you described this mechanism, that this supervisory authority is actually needed. Are you ready to go on with this? I think the Riigikogu would very much like to discuss and process a draft which is in the interest of patients to this extent. Are you ready to go on with a bill like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U236	Thanks for the questions. The short answer is that it is certainly the first stage or the first perhaps the aim is to resolve the pharmacy reform, say, the differences of opinion, to find one, the second or the third solution in order for the reform of the pharmacy to enter into force smoothly. Once this is done, of course, this does not mean that the pharmaceutical market is complete and no changes are needed. The pharmaceutical market is huge, international, reaching Asia. The question of transparency, issues of supply difficulties, access to medicines, both price policy and safety and quality control, these are all issues that, of course, need to be dealt with every day. In essence, in time, when we are talking specifically about, for example, discussions on the creation of a price regulator, perhaps making competition more transparent by strengthening supervision, these debates can certainly be held here already in the spring and summer of this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U237	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U238	Thank you. I'm asking about this drugstore closure action. The chain representatives claim that this was not a concerted practice but a political demonstration where there was no agreement between undertakings. At the same time, of course, in the newspapers, we read how different pharmacists described the situation, that 15 minutes before that, a call was made from the administration, and that it was ordered to close down at 14 p.m. the pharmacy. And the pharmacies closed all over Estonia at 14:00. How do you feel about it being a concerted practice between economic operators or just a coincidence? In this regard, the question is how you are satisfied with the work of the Competition Authority in this area. Coordinated action in this sense is prohibited under competition law, even punishable, but for some reason neither the Competition Authority nor other public authorities have stood up very strongly for the protection of the patient, apart from the so-called verbal talk. Or, as far as you know, is there a criminal investigation or, at least, a competition authority's supervision procedure for the coordinated closure of pharmacies?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U239	Thank you very much for a very thorough question. So let's start with the first half. Obviously, if, on that particular day, for example, had the three pharmacies or four pharmacies in Estonia closed at 2:00 a.m., this could have been a coincidence, had lunch not been agreed, just really needed, probably would not have been at lunch until quite the evening, but it would have been possible. However, since we are talking about hundreds of pharmacies across Estonia, it was really very coordinated, with similar, initially at least a lot of incomplete information about the closing decision, it is not possible to believe the coincidence and chance here. As far as the other party is concerned, that is to say, the competition authority's director-general also attended a press conference with me, where it was very clearly condemned. As regards the activities, possible decisions and follow-up of the Competition Authority, they are certainly best commented on by the Competition Authority itself and by the Ministry of Justice, whose administration the Competition Authority belongs to.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U240	Thank you. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U241	Thank you very much. Here's my question. There has been much speculation in the media and the public that one of the companies operating on the pharmaceutical market, who also has certain holdings in well-known and long-established Estonian media houses, has tried to promote its business interest by using its influence on its media companies. Do you also share this view, or do you, as a minister, feel that in this way attempts have been made to tilt government or ministry decisions in one direction or another?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U242	When we talk about the Estonian press, I would say that the overall picture has been quite constructive, that various complex issues have been raised, that responses have been sought to them, that the word has been given to all the players in the pharmacy market, that the search has also been made in 2014. The debates in 2008, their starting points, the possible amendments that were made in Parliament. I would say that the debate has been very good. There have certainly been individual ones, I would not even say that media channels, but rather I would say that specific media products that have not been based on the best expertise, public health interests or the principles of journalistic ethics, have provided incomplete information in distorted form, for reasons which are incomprehensible to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U243	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Do honourable colleagues also want to negotiate? Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U244	A few words from the reporters. Some things that, in the form of questions, were not finally or sufficiently marked. Firstly, without doubt, we hope that, after this embarrassing test failed in this Chamber in December, we will no longer be spending time, energy and energy to bring another attempt to turn the reform of the pharmacy into a ditch here, even though there have been such attempts and attempts to launch such an initiative, and this is because there has been little time until 1 April. It is clear that it cannot be expected from any of the parties that action will be brought into line with the requirements that will enter into force or be implemented on 1 April, when there are politicians in the government union who are blinking in the eye and saying that do not worry, in fact, it is not going to happen. We have been losing the right months because of this blinking, and I think it is quite clear and clear now that it is moving forward. If there is a need for a longer transition in individual places, it can be discussed, but fundamental issues are no longer dealt with. While in December people stood here on the remote and defended the anti-patient bill and talked about how everything is actually good in Estonia on the pharmaceutical market, that medicines are quite cheap and people are quite satisfied with what the situation is, fortunately, the Estonian press has done a very grateful job to show that most pharmaceutical companies' statements about how today's situation is optimal not only for them but also for all people in Estonia, in fact, medicines are not in place at the optimal price. When it is said that you see how bad it is when chain pharmacies are demolished because chain pharmacies have a scale effect, when we look at the price comparison with hospital pharmacies, we also look at the price comparison with individual independent pharmacists, it turns out that if there is a scale effect, then this vacuum cleaner tube will only work in the direction that wholesalers and owners can enjoy this scale effect, and unfortunately patients will not be transferred for some reason. And with that, there are a number of arguments or hesitations that some honest colleagues have had in connection with this reform of the pharmacy, in my opinion, have fallen away. The Minister drew attention to a very important issue where we would really expect substantive proposals. I cannot say that I am very pleased with what the situation is at the moment, in terms of price regulation and the asymmetry of the information that we actually have, not even from a normal person's point of view, but, in fact, the public authorities do not know at what price the wholesalers are buying in. One of the honesty that one trader promised himself was that the reality is that there are certain discounts and other schemes that no one knows. It's actually an example of how these things work in this business. I took out a specific price comparison from the health insurance fund, some tables of drugs. The drug price at the pharmacy is 27 euros and 90 cents, but wholesale sales declare that they buy it with 30 euros and 83 cents. The wholesale purchase price is perhaps higher than the marginal selling price plus both wholesale and retail prices and VAT. It is clear that this particular number that is presented to the State has no connection with reality. Consequently, it is possible, first of all, to show higher mark-ups, of course, but, as a whole, it creates such information asymmetries that the state has no control over such an important area, not only in terms of control, but also in terms of what profits are made and how they are earned there. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U245	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U246	Consequently, indeed, this is not the way I see it going. The country's been watching it for too long, and now that the king's naked, it's worth fixing this situation. We take the wholesale market for medicines, where competition is low. Everyone's been admitting, for years, that there is a serious problem. Minister Kiik wrote to the Social Affairs Committee on 18 December and admitted in the same letter that there are three wholesalers who own 80%, but in fact we know that there are two, because Magnum and the Pharmacy Cooperation Wholesale belong to the brothers, one brother does not have his own wholesale warehouse, as 'The Spectator' recently showed, and in fact they are either quite the same thing, but there is reason to believe that this is not the end of independent businesses. In total, they actually have a dominant influence in the sense of competition law, but for some reason the Competition Authority has not gone to discover it, which in fact would give the Competition Authority much more extensive opportunities to control the way in which this market is being dealt with. The problem is everybody knows. There's no action at the moment. As a result, if the Ministry of Social Affairs also supports the possibility of a price regulator in this area, I do not know whether it is imagined to be in the Agency or the Competition Authority, I think the Competition Authority will have more experience in this area, then in any case this would be one of the issues that should go forward very quickly in order to actually protect the interests of the patient. These amounts, which have been identified as 'The Spectator', of EUR 20 million in overpayment by patients last year alone, are just one of those, in fact, the facets and the places where people are over-enriched at the expense of the sick and the elderly, are more than we know in this area. That's the problem. We don't even know how these things work to the end. As this knowledge is essential, we really hope that the Minister, as he promised, will continue to take practical steps on this issue in the coming months. Finally, we hope that, at the second attempt, if Parliament starts discussing this matter before 1 April, more than the first will be heard by the Minister's expert report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U247	Thank you. The desire for further negotiations has not been revealed. Does the addressee of the inquiry wish to make a final statement? No, I don't. The inquiry has been dealt with, this item has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-13_U248	Now, ladies and gentlemen, we have the opportunity to open a free microphone. Everyone has the opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after a hammer hit. There's gonna be a hammer kick coming up. You can all register for a speech. [[A voice from the hall.]] I can't. Someone else has to lead. Our excellent hearing is over today. Closure of the sitting at 20:25 a.m.
