ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U1	Hi! We will begin the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand you're all very excited about the start of the new week, and the buzz is big, but let's get to work. We will begin the Monday session of the 12th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. As usual, it is first possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. Heidy Purga, over here, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U2	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good speaker! Reform party members report an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Research, Mailis Reps. 16 reform parties are today reporting an inquiry in which we want the Minister to explain the mixed messages about the future functioning of schools. During the emergency period, the Minister and the Ministry of Education and Research have given highly conflicting information about the further work of schools as well as about the final exams and entrance tests, and we find that people still do not understand what will happen in schools after 15 May and how the school year will end. It is therefore vital for us that the Minister gives precise answers to these questions quickly. We have also submitted written questions along with our inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U3	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Government of the Republic, I ask Mrs. Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U4	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two drafts today. First, the draft law amending the General Part of the Civil Code and other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg. Secondly, there is the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the implementation of state reform. Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration, represents the Government of the Republic in processing this draft in the Riigikogu. These two drafts have been transmitted electronically to the Riigikogu. Power!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts and one inquiry, and their further processing is carried out in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. We're conducting a presence check. There are 86 members of the Riigikogu and there are no 15. We now come to our agenda, to its clarification and approval. The Committee on Social Affairs has proposed that today's second item on the agenda be placed on the agenda for the second reading of the draft law amending the tobacco law and excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic. Together with this amendment, I will vote on the approval of the agenda for the 12th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 86 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, and there are no respondents and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed. Urmas Espenberg, would you like to take the floor?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U6	I propose that this week's working days be Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U7	Thank you. I am voting on the proposal to change the timetable for the 12th working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu so that the plenary sessions take place on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday and on Wednesday. Please take a stand and vote. There are 77 members of the Riigikogu in favour of changing the timetable for the work of the Plenary Assembly, one against, no abstentions. The timetable has been changed. The procedural discussions are now exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U8	Let's go to today's agenda. The first point is the first reading of draft law 170 on the amendment of the Auxiliary Police Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic (measures relating to the spread of SARS-Cov-2 virus causing COVID-19 disease). I'm sorry! This is the third reading, the first and the second we've already done. As usual, there will be negotiations at third reading, and all political groups will have the opportunity to make a speech. The call from the remote is 5 + 3 minutes and the speech is 2 minutes. The wish to speak has been expressed by Toomas Kivimägi on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U9	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, One way to give weight to your speech is to refer to the classics: 'Ladies and gentlemen! I will start with two controversial questions and a thesis. The first question: is this law necessary? The answer is that it is essential. The second question: is this law good? No way! ' The author of this reasoning is none other than the honourable colleague, Mr Mikhail Lotman, and these words have been spoken five days ago in this very Chamber about this very bill. As far as I know, Mr. Mikhail Lotman is still a member of the coalition, which is why I cannot understand, good coalition members, why you do not listen to yours! I understand that you do not listen to the opposition, you are prejudiced against us, but why you do not listen to yours, it is very incomprehensible to me. Good words, Mr. Lotman! However, in order to remain correct in front of you, I must say that Mr Lotman also said at the end of his speech that he would support this draft. But I can't help but say, "Is this law good? No way! ' I really want it to sound. Those are Mr. Lotman's words. There was another very specific feature of this draft. In fact, very many members of the coalition changed the colour of the hall on the way from the Commission. This concerns the members of the coalition from the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as well as the Committee on Social Affairs. In the Commission, they expressed and decided something quite different than reviewing and voting on amendments in this Chamber. I have serious doubts that they are all free to make their own decisions in this Chamber. Maybe they're gonna get verbal or, you know, physical coercion when they vote. I had this suspicion. Maybe we should go to the Chancellor of Justice to see if the MPs are still free to vote in this Chamber. But it is not possible to correct these mistakes in today's vote. And actually, I'd like to compliment the coalition ambassadors, unfortunately, only two. This is Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits and Mr Siim Kisler. I sincerely congratulate you for your courage, I stress: the courage to vote according to your convictions and conscience. The country of Estonia will continue to need you. The Reform Party Group will vote against the adoption of this draft law and will do so for the following substantive reasons. Firstly, it is because of the application of xenophobic undertone restrictions to foreign workers, and the changes in the law on foreigners are obviously xenophobic undertone, if you seriously think about it. This is not appropriate for a civilised and democratic country. In fact, today's special situation does not, in the least, justify the imposition of restrictions on foreigners without a descriptive and reasoned part of the order. But that's how you want to decide today. Just give me one reason why we should behave uncivilised and undemocraticly in today's emergency. The exact same can be said about the implementation of restrictions on external workers. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U10	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U11	Estonia is a country with a shrinking workforce. If we want to develop quickly, it is obviously inevitable that in the future we will have to include the workforce from outside Estonia. It's inevitable. But what signal do we give today's decisions? Even if we know that unemployment has increased exponentially in Estonia in recent weeks, there is no reason to assume that one city person will become a welder from tomorrow or will be working at the barn. At least not as long as there is no state wage support or unemployment benefit! just, and I'm guessing even more. The Chancellor of Justice has also drawn attention to a very important formal-legal nuance: 'If, however, the Riigikogu has established a regulation that allows foreigners to enter the country for the purpose of working under certain conditions, the employer also has the right to assume that the state follows the principle of legal certainty and that the established rules are not changed unreasonablely at short notice. ' The Estonian Employers' Confederation, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, very authoritative and respected farmers and industrialists have been very clear against the proposed restrictions. Why don't you listen to them? Why do you not take into account their views on issues that could be expected to be much smarter than we politicians? Third, the amendment of the Bankruptcy Act. We are convinced that it is also not justified to suspend the obligation to submit bankruptcy applications during an emergency situation, as this is detrimental not only to the interests of creditors, but also to the interests of other bona fide entrepreneurs who, without their knowledge, can enter into agreements with undertakings that are insolvent. The Banking Association has made very clear the idea of the obligation to apply for bankruptcy to the board of directors to ensure the reliability of the economic environment. If this commitment is no longer in place, we will have a very strong blow to the credibility of our economic environment. We do not want to argue that, in today's emergency situation, bankruptcy proceedings should not be regulated in a somewhat different way either. The perfect solution has not been proposed by the opposition, but, in my opinion, by Mr Paul Varul, a highly respected legal scientist. It says this: 'It should not prohibit the filing and processing of applications for bankruptcy, but rather provide for the possibility that, after the filing of the application for bankruptcy and the appointment of a temporary administrator, no bankruptcy will be declared, but the temporary administrator will ensure that the debtor does not deteriorate. ' A very simple and logical solution! But we are numbly putting a moratorium on it, and with it we are seriously damaging the credibility of the economic environment. Finally, there are a large number of provisions in this draft that do not have any special circumstances, which is the worst in this matter, i.e. a package of Brezhnev has been put together. I think Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski said something similar at second reading that if you did not have to read the so-called unwanted book in the package, you could put it aside and only read what you really wanted to buy, then unfortunately we do not have such a choice in this draft. And that is why the Reform Party Group will vote against this bill becoming a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U12	Thank you. Since Mikhail Lotman was named in the speech, he has the opportunity to rejoin. Two minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since I was mentioned twice, do I have four minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U14	I'm sorry, it's not! I hope you're limited to two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U15	Since I have this opportunity, I will specify my position. This legislative package is not great. It's not very good, it's not even good. But as a lecturer, I would give it a satisfactory grade, and that is why I myself am voting for it and recommend that everyone else do the same. If we vote against it, we imagine that this law will fall through the Riigikogu, it will affect the well-being of tens of thousands of people, perhaps even hundreds of thousands. And that is why I will say once again that this package of laws is essential with all its shortcomings. I too like this part of foreigners very much, not only because of the xenophobic undertone, but also because it is not good for our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U16	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Heljo Pikhof, I would like to ask for the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U17	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! In the case of this draft, it is desirable to urgently deal with both the substantive issues necessary to facilitate the resolution of the emergency situation and the use of backroom diplomacy, i.e. to introduce provisions which are not related in any way to the resolution of the emergency situation and which would require a thorough deepening and parliamentary debate. However, changes that are not urgent and have an impact that goes beyond an emergency situation are not right to be linked to this package. In haste, many people affected by legislative changes are excluded from the debate, which in turn has unintended consequences. The cluster bill, which has been scrambled together quickly, is both technical and legislatively problematic. The handling of the draft was also problematic in the Committee on Legal Affairs. The coalition members of the Committee on Legal Affairs did not take seriously the competent opinions of the Committee on Rural Affairs, the Confederation of Employers, the Chamber of Commerce and the Confederation of Farmers, which contained clear positions in the context of external labour. The Chancellor of Justice was also critical of the implementation of restrictions on external labour. The opinion of the Social Committee on the amendment of the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases and the opinion of the Committee on Culture on the PGS were not taken seriously. The majority of the Commission also went over the opinions of the barrister, the Chancellor of Justice, the Banking Union, the Human Rights Centre, refugee assistance, the Child Protection Union and others. On top of that, the draft is also lax on what our people and businesses are actually waiting for today in an emergency situation. When it comes to abstract interpretation of the Aliens Act, as the Ministry of the Interior has done, farmers will not finish their work at the end of the season, but on a fixed date, July 31st. Of course, our people must be used as much as possible in agriculture, but not all of this is snappy. It is clear that we will not be able to manage purely domestic resources this year. Second of all, I'm talking about helping police officers. On the one hand, assistant police officers are entitled to use greater coercion, strength, and training on the other. Under normal circumstances, a 100-hour traineeship with a police officer must be preceded by a second-level entitlement, while relief is provided for during an emergency or emergency situation. When an auxiliary police officer goes on duty, in particular in cases where he or she may have to restrict the fundamental rights or freedoms of persons, check documents, identify persons, apply a stay ban, stop vehicles, the principle that a person has been prepared, he or she knows what his or her rights and powers are. On the one hand, it is necessary for the protection of ordinary citizens, on the other hand, for the protection of the same particular assistant police officer himself, so that he does not go beyond what is known and, as a result, does not commit an offence himself. Thirdly, the desire to suspend the obligation to file for bankruptcy during an emergency situation. This change is detrimental to the interests of both creditors and bona fide undertakings, which may conclude agreements with companies that are essentially insolvent. Fourthly, amendments to the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases. In an emergency, the employer will have the opportunity not to require a medical certificate from an employee who wishes to work in a child institution, a nursing home, a catering company. Instead of proof, the staff member may be limited to a statement that he is healthy. Fifthly, supplementing the Victim Assistance Act with a provision allowing the provision of the Women's Support Centre in emergency situations also to be provided by a person who has not completed further training on violence against women. Women's shelters don't think that's right. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U18	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U19	They have said that the current rules on the provision of the service of violence against women, such as awareness, security, confidentiality, the ability to understand the victim and not impose the experiences they have experienced, are vital and should not be alleviated. The Attorney General pointed out that the amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure did not comply with the principle of the right of defence and fair trial. It cannot be considered justified for a lawyer to give up the possibility of consulting and communicating with the defendant during the hearing in the event of an emergency situation. Even in times of emergency, the right of defence must be guaranteed. According to the draft, the general procedure would take place via the video bridge, if requested by the defendant, even after an emergency situation. However, at least at the time of the examination of personal evidence, the suspect and the lawyer must be in one room, even in exceptional circumstances, otherwise the rights of the defence are not properly guaranteed. But there is also one such amendment in this draft that I can welcome. It can be welcomed that the draft did not include regulation which would have allowed personal data, including special types of personal data, to be processed in the application of the emergency measure provided for in the Emergency Act and other procedures necessary to resolve the emergency situation, and to be transferred or to grant new authorisations for access to data in the database. We would have reduced people's confidence in the state and created a good basis for data abuse. The Social Democrats are not satisfied with this draft, with technical, legislative and substantive shortcomings. These problems have not largely disappeared either in the Committee on Legal Affairs or in this Chamber. Therefore, the Social Democrats will vote against the adoption of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U20	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the Priit Sibula Isamaa Group, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U21	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, This is an extraordinary bill, and it is true in many ways. Firstly, because it brings together more than 30 amendments to the law. Secondly, because we have dealt with it at an early pace, so that, in an emergency, we can legally organise life. Thirdly, this is certainly not the best legal draft that has been dealt with in this Chamber, but we all know that this has been caused by a time shortage due to an emergency situation. No political group in the Riigikogu has questioned the fact that urgent action is needed in an emergency situation. This law is essential. I thank all the ambassadors who have contributed and made proposals to make the draft even better in the proceedings of the Riigikogu! An example of this is the amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act, where an appropriate outcome was achieved for all parties, in close cooperation with the representatives of the student associations. I would also like to highlight the amendment of the Committee on Legal Affairs to the Bankruptcy Act, which resulted in the restoration of creditors' right to file for bankruptcy. I must admit that there are also points in this draft that are not among my first preferences, but, as a result of many compromises, we have before us a package of laws that I and the Group of the Fatherland can support. There are necessary changes to this draft which will help the authorities to act more quickly in emergency situations. An example of this is the issue of state secrecy, where the possibility is given to postpone the application for certain permits. Also welcome are those changes that add flexibility to the organisation of the tasks of public authorities during emergency situations. I would specifically highlight one such amendment to the law, which so far may have received unfortunately little attention. We know that support for families is very important in times of crisis. That is why there is also a change in this cluster that will allow mothers of children with a small age gap to receive parental benefit more quickly in the future. This amendment could also be criticised because it is permanent, not temporary. But in reality, it will, of course, help families both during and after the crisis. There has been much talk in this Chamber about organising the work of assistant police officers during emergency situations and abolishing the 100-hour practice requirement. Our task in this Riigikogu is not to sow unnecessary fear among the people. Once this change has been implemented, all trained auxiliary police officers will not be entitled to use force. The abolition of the one hundred-hour practice requirement provides an opportunity for those who have some specific experience of the past to tell us this at second reading by the representative of the Reform Party, in order to have an additional human resource at the time of the emergency, which would enable us to respond sensibly and quickly to the problems. Alongside relief police, much has been said about the Aliens Act. The agricultural sector must definitely be supported, so the extension of the working permits of foreigners already employed in Estonia has been supported until the end of July in the agricultural sector. However, the labour problem is not only affecting the agricultural sector, but also many others. It is therefore important that we also pay attention to the tens of thousands of people who have no output on the Estonian labour market today. We don't have the point of hitting the workforce in two camps. The fact that the temporary workforce is falling does not mean that the labour sector, as such, will completely dry up. We use this crisis as an opportunity to find and create opportunities for our own people, while not forgetting the needs of businesses. Finally. These legislative changes are only part of this big picture of how we support Estonian people, entrepreneurs and authorities in emergency and post-emergency situations. On behalf of the Isamaa Group, I would like to thank our coalition partners, ministers and certainly officials. The Fatherland supports legislative changes. We will adopt this draft so that we can start discussing as quickly as possible and as painless a plan to exit the crisis. The bill may be in trouble, but it is essential to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U22	Jevgeni Ossinovski, is there a procedural question? No, it's not. Unfortunately, only the representatives of the political groups have the opportunity to speak at third reading and the Social Democratic Party has already given its speech. You can only speak if you have a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U23	Thank you! With regard to the President's comment, I have a procedural question. Namely, my name was mentioned, and like my colleague Lotman, I would like to have the right to reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U24	I missed it, but when I was mentioned, please! In that case, the reply is correct!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U25	Mr Kivimägi did indeed mention my name and did so in connection with my speech at second reading. Mr Lotman said that this bill had many shortcomings, that it was a draft with satisfactory grades, and that there were many bad things in it. In my opinion, it is important to note how we have arrived here. Here you can see a relatively perverse or very peculiar logic. Despite repeated preventive remarks that in times of crisis, the government could present a draft containing only crisis-related measures, the Government of the Republic had different ministries and ministers graft on to this draft things that require far different, far more in-depth discussions than is possible in times of crisis. During the procedure then in Parliament, the opposition pointed out that friends, we are taking out these disputed provisions and we are adopting this crisis package in a large, beautiful way. We were ignored. And then we get to the third reading, and Mr Lotman says, look, this is a very bad bill, because there are a lot of bad things in it, but it is very important to adopt it today, because otherwise good things will not be done. Just as Brezhnev's package, to which reference has already been made today, we have no obligation to read when it has been planted, and that is why I think it is very important to reject this draft today and to accept it without these additional foolishness on the second attempt. But in general, this is just an example of how the opportunity to pursue parliamentaryism together has been wasted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U26	Thank you. We have heard both pros and cons and it seems that the political groups do not want to negotiate any more. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed a final vote of 170 on the draft. I will turn on the hall call, but before that I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of this bill as a law. Let's get to the most important moment. I am voting on the draft law on the amendment of the Act and other laws (measures relating to the spread of SARS-Cov-2 causing COVID-19 disease) initiated by the Government of the Republic. This is the final vote of 170 of the draft. Please take a stand and vote. 54 MPs voted in favour of the draft, 40 against, no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U27	As we raised today's agenda item No 2 with an unprecedented consensus on Wednesday, we are going to agenda item No 3, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the organisation of the rural and agricultural market and the Law on the amendment of labour market services and subsidies, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, Ivari Padari, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U28	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. You have before you a draft of a de minimis change in the level of State aid: so far, it was EUR 15000 per undertaking for three years in agriculture, but this draft raises it to EUR 25000 in the European Union. No proposals were received from Riigikogu members, political groups or other committees by the deadline for submitting amendments, by 5 March. Two proposals came from the Ministry of Rural Affairs. One of them was such a technical or wording. And another, such a more substantive proposal, was that a reasonable solution was being sought to the issue of land use. The current usufruct agreements, made 15 to 20 years ago, are coming to an end and moving forward with the land of use, so that they are given to those who are farmers, so that they can legally use these countries, these conditions must be close to market conditions. Since it is also intended to solve this problem and to solve this problem, so that the rental rates of potential usufructs may hypothetically increase, somehow make more sense and allow for the use of State aid here too, we initially had a plan to introduce a provision in the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act, which would allow for the inclusion of de minimis State aid in the implementation of usufruction. We agreed at the meeting on 16 March to bring these de minimis provisions into line with the use of land for exploitation. But now it is that a little bit of time has passed on, the draft that we are dealing with here has been standing here with regard to the current situation and other solutions have been reached. In the context of this draft, the solution is very simple. The amendment initially voted in, which we tabled on 16 March, was Amendment 2. Our proposal is to take this Amendment 2 out now; that is what we have agreed with the government. And once we have taken it out, there will be only one technical amendment. With regard to this proposal that has been deleted, we will do this in such a way that, if it has been re-examined, how to proceed reasonably with the issue of usury, so that it does not cause any damage in agriculture rather than profit, about 1 500 producers, who are bound by around 5 000 contracts and some 50,000 hectares of land, this is a very large piece of agriculture, then we will add to the draft 87 concerning usury, later on, this proposal, which, in this case, is not included in the draft 124 as a second proposal. I hope my story was very clear and understandable. Now, however, it is up to the commission to take procedural decisions. The Commission adopted a decision to send a draft law amending the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act initiated by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu for a second reading, including by 20 April with a proposal to terminate the second reading and, if the second reading is completed, to carry out the third reading of the draft on 4 May and to put the draft to the final vote. All the members of the Committee on Rural Affairs were in favour of it. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U29	Thank you, good waitress. Honourable members of the Riigikogu also have questions for you. Peter Ernits first, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U30	Good manager! Good waitress! This 13 million euro assistance, 4 million a year, stands out that the interest groups are not only MES, EAS and the Rõuge Municipality Government. My question is, how much or who's behind this Rõuge Municipality government and how much hope there is of getting something out of this 4 million aids to Rõuge.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U31	Thank you. That's a very good point. Indeed, there is only one municipality that still has the opportunity to receive the de minimis State aid granted to the agricultural sector, this is the Rõuge Municipality Government and the grant is called the Rõuge Municipality Enterprise Support. It is very difficult to assess whether and how much Rõuge municipality will use it in the future. But the fact that the municipality of Rõuge has been progressive and has so far used possible legal business support options is very remarkable and reasonable. How will municipalities take advantage of this opportunity in the future? Well, that's what life will show once we've passed that law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U32	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Could you specify the amount of EUR 25000 to be granted to the company for a period of three years? Are we discussing this problem in the Riigikogu now because we want to allow the maximum amount of state aid per company to be paid out?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U34	Thank you. Well, anyway! After all, the amount of EUR 15000 was also used by those who used it until the ceiling was met and the maximum was reached. And in the case of this EUR 25000, it is the same that those who use this option from farmers do so until the maximum rate is reached. But I cannot rule out that, in God knows what difficult circumstances, the European Commission, Parliament and the Council may also agree on some other totally new de minimis State aid rates. In this case, we should be very careful that if these rates reach very high altitudes, which seem to be very attractive, there will be no such thing as the ability of rich countries to support agriculture being greater than the capacity of the new Member States, because in this case the risk of denationalising agricultural policy will come into play. That should not be allowed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U35	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U36	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! I would like to come to the part of the draft concerning the initial entry and subsequent exclusion, i.e. the issue of usability. In your presentation, you also mentioned this issue: it is as if market conditions should be met in the case of usufruct prices. Maybe you'll open up a bit of this debate on the part of the Commission with representatives of the ministry when you did. What is this real-life problem, and what should it look like to meet market conditions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U37	One thing that is clear is that before joining the European Union, during this period of freshly independent Estonia, different land use contracts were signed, which were made to motivate and encourage agriculture and rural areas. This heading also retains these usufruct agreements. It is clear that the rates of usufruct contracts, or what the producer pays, are today far from the market price. And in a situation where these contracts are coming to an end, it is clear that we need to find a reasonable and legal option for contracts to continue in such a way that they are also comparable to the market price, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, that these contracts are such that the transition to a market price does not kill entrepreneurship. We need to find a compromise. I understand that last Thursday the Cabinet also discussed this matter and that the Cabinet has a certain transitional option on how to extend or process usufruct agreements in the future. But what is its content, unfortunately, I do not know because I am temporarily in opposition.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U38	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U39	Good manager! Good waitress! Broadly speaking, this means that about 160 producers receive support per year with such a ceiling. Considering the number of municipalities in Estonia, there is a large amount of support in each municipality for about two. But my question is this: how has Rõuge been with farmers so far? How many farmers in Rõuge municipality have used this ceiling so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U40	Thank you, dear colleague. I will see if I have the statistics here from the previous debate. Of course, this option has been used quite a lot and has been used between very different donors and measures. It has been used by the Environmental Board, for example, to compensate for damage caused by protected animals and prevention costs; to support the PRIA colony, to support market development and to implement the local development strategy of the fisheries area; to implement various labour market measures; to secure loans at preferential interest rates; to provide the Environmental Investment Centre for the environmental programme; to the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Commerce; to project 'BreedExpo' in the Central Baltic Sea programme and, as has been said before, the Rõuge Municipality Government. So it's actually been used, but I'm afraid I don't have any previous statistics here on how this thing is exactly divided.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U41	Thank you, dear waitress. Looks like there's no more questions to ask. But now we have come to this important moment where we can negotiate. The members of the political groups, the members of the committees and all members of the Riigikogu may take the floor. But it seems to me that there is no wish for negotiations this time. In that case, we will go to the examination of the amendments. We have one amendment tabled by the Committee on Rural Affairs, and the position of the lead committee is to take full account of this. It seems that this is also the wish of all the honourable colleagues. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 124. I'm finishing second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U42	We now come to the next item on the agenda. This is Raimond Kaljulaiu, Lauri Läänemetsa, Ivari Padari, Helmen Küti, Indrek Saare, Heljo Pikhofi, Jaak Juske, Riina Sikkuti, Jevgeni Ossinovski and Katri Raigi's inquiry for the future of Ida-Viru County, submitted on 27 February, inquiry No 28. Katri Raik is the waitress for the heirs. Speech chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U43	Good Chairman! Prime Minister! As has been said, ten members of the Social Democratic Party Group submitted an inquiry entitled 'An inquiry into the future of Ida-Virumaa'. The date was 27 February then, and it is clear that the idea of this question has changed in many ways today, but the Prime Minister has come to respond to the very question that we presented at the time. At the time, we drew attention to the following: people are afraid of losing their jobs on the ground, people in Ida-Viru County live four and a half years less than the people in Tartumaa, and there are the families most in Ida-Viru County who receive income support for a very long time. We pointed out that Ida-Virumaa was in crisis or very close to the crisis. Today we are all thinking together about Saaremaa and Võrumaa, every region of Estonia. But I would point out that we must also think very seriously about Ida-Virumaa, as unemployment in Ida-Virumaa has increased to 7749 people this morning. The unemployment rate is 12.7%, while the Estonian average is 7.2%. 12.7 vs. 7.2! Within a month, 560 unemployed people have been added, compared with 1580 at the beginning of the year, as at 1 March. Ida-Viru County is in crisis. It is clear that today people are thinking about their health, but also about their financial situation, and it can be said with certainty and great sadness that people are afraid. However, this situation may ultimately jeopardise our internal security. Let me briefly introduce the questions that we asked the Prime Minister at the time. The first question concerned Estonia's climate goals. We know that Estonia has set climate targets for 2050, but we asked about Estonia's climate targets for 2030. We know that even in the current situation, the COVID-19, the European Union has not abandoned its efforts on climate neutrality. Second, we focused on the oil factory. We know that, in the meantime, the decision has been taken to establish an oil plant, the cost of which is often said to be 125 million, but that is, in fact, only the amount of this financial year. In total, we are talking about almost EUR 300 million. None of us know whether the oil price will rise again for over $50 a barrel or not. It is possible that everything will go well and the oil factory will be successful, but it is also possible that the oil plant will once be as unhappyly empty and quietly as the large Auvere power plant, which has not been fully operational, even though it was completed five years ago. We saw a certain contradiction between the efforts of climate neutrality and the plan to build an oil plant. But once again, we do not know whether this project will be successful or not. We hope to hear the Prime Minister's position. On the third question, we were worried about whether the Estonian government sees East-Viru County or, more generally, Estonia as an eligible region in connection with the fair transition mechanism. I have a feeling that we have already received an answer to this question in the meantime: for the first pillar, it is in Ida-Virumaa and in the second and third pillars concerning loans, it is in Estonia as a whole, if it also affects Ida-Virumaa. In the next point, in the fourth point, we were interested that if the fair transfer mechanism requires 1.5 times the additional contribution to the fair transfer fund at the expense of social and regional funds, how will it develop. Do the ministries rename the purpose of the money and say that this social or regional fund money, which is already earmarked for one or another, is now part of a fair transfer fund, or is it a 'clean slate'? Finally, we were worried about how the development plan, which the fair transition mechanism provides for for Ida-Virumaa, would be drawn up and how the people of Ida-Virumaa would be involved in this discussion. Good Prime Minister, let us listen with interest to your answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U44	Thank you. The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Prime Minister, I would like you to join us in this chair. Time allowed up to 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U45	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! First of all, thank you very much for asking me this question. I would also like to thank Katri Raiki, who basically read the questions and gave almost an answer to each question. Thanks for that. But I'll try to add a little bit. On 27 February 2020, ten members of the Riigikogu submitted an inquiry into the future of Ida-Virumaa. I thank you for your questioning about the fair transition mechanism, the future of Ida-Viru County. Ida-Virumaa is a very important priority for the Government of the Republic, strongly focused. The representative of the heirs also described the situation in Ida-Virumaa this morning as regards unemployment rates and the number of registered unemployed. Both figures are on a pretty strong growth trend, and this is, of course, in a negative sense when we are talking about registered unemployed people and unemployment rates. It's negative for people. But I'll start answering questions without further ado. Question 1: 'The government of the Republic of Estonia has announced climate neutrality by 2050. What are Estonia's nearest climate targets for 2030? ' Estonia has set itself the target of reducing total greenhouse gas emissions by 70% by 2030 compared to 1990 levels, which means reducing its greenhouse gas emissions to about 12 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent by 2030. On 9 December 2019 the Government of the Republic approved the "Estonia's National Energy and Climate Plan for 2030', which aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from Estonia to 80% by 2050, including 70% by 2030. According to the latest greenhouse gas inventory published in March 2020, greenhouse gas emissions in Estonia amounted to nearly 20 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent in 2018. In 2018, Estonia's total greenhouse gas emissions were close to 18 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent, taking into account the land use, land use change and forestry sector. Thus, by 2018, we have reduced emissions by more than 50% compared to 1990 levels. Unfortunately, the Ministry of the Environment and Statistics do not currently have any more recent data. Preliminary data will only be obtained in autumn of this year, and on the basis of the data, the greenhouse gas inventory will be presented in the first quarter of 2021. In 2018, nearly 70% of Estonian greenhouse gas emissions came from large energy and industrial sectors, including the oil shale industry. Nearly 12% of Estonia's greenhouse gas emissions have been caused by transport, while greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector mainly occur in road transport and have increased from year to year. The third largest sector responsible for greenhouse gas emissions is agriculture, which accounts for nearly 7% of greenhouse gas emissions in Estonia. The remaining sectors represent a marginal share of total emissions. In order for Estonia to meet its target of achieving a 70% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, it is first necessary to ensure that the Estonian land use, land use change and forestry sector, or LULUCF, remains carbon-linked and does not become a source of greenhouse gas emissions during the period 2021 to 2030. Secondly, it must be ensured that in the large energy and industrial sectors, which account for the majority of Estonia's total greenhouse gas emissions, greenhouse gas emissions will decrease from the current 14 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent to 6.5 million tonnes by 2030. And thirdly, it must be ensured that, in all other sectors, agriculture, small energy, waste management, transport, total greenhouse gas emissions will decrease from 6.2 million tonnes to 5.5 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent by 2030. In order to achieve this goal, the private sector and the public sector, including all ministries and local authorities, all natural and legal persons, need to contribute, and this will require changes in both production and consumption. It is necessary to focus on key areas where the transition to more cost-effective measures will allow a rapid reduction of greenhouse gas emissions during the period 2021 to 2030. In order to identify such key areas and measures and to implement them, in July 2019 the government has set up a Climate and Energy Committee, which is responsible for shaping climate and energy policy positions on matters within the competence of the government, for finding cross-cutting solutions to reduce Estonia's greenhouse gas emissions, for assessing and proposing measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, for finding solutions to ensure the country's energy security and security of supply, and for coordinating the activities of the executive state authorities in implementing climate and energy policies. The second question: 'Is and in what timetable is the construction of the new oil plant of Eesti Energia taking place? When will the decision on the oil refinery be taken? What economic and environmental analyses do these government decisions build on? 'The Government of the Republic authorised Minister of Finance Martin Helme to increase Eesti Energia's equity capital by a financial contribution of 125 million euros, with a decision taken at the meeting on 27 March 2020. This enables Eesti Energia to build a new Enefit 280 oil plant. This new oil plant is planned to be completed in 2024 and its full capacity is planned to be achieved one year later. The economic analysis is based on a cash flow forecast and a discounted cash flow model, input from generally accepted expert security analyses and the parameters planned by the yard based on the tests carried out. In addition, State aid and budgetary rules are also addressed in parallel in the decision-making process. The plant will be built in accordance with current environmental requirements, which will also be taken into account in the design of the yard's financial model. There is currently no decision to set up a refinery, and the Government's Committee on Climate and Energy will probably discuss the issue in May once a new feasibility study has been completed. The government's decisions are based on the profitability analyses of the pre-refinery available at the time of the decision-making process, as well as on State aid analyses. Question 3: 'The European Commission has sent a fair transition mechanism plan to the Member States to take a position. According to the plan, an eligible area must be defined in Estonia. Is this all of Estonia or is it Ida-Virumaa? The latter is the European Commission's proposal. " On 19 March, the Government of the Republic confirmed Estonia's views on the fair transition mechanism of the European Union, according to which the aim of the Estonian Foundation to seek a fair transition in the regions most affected by the changeover is supported. This region is undoubtedly Ida-Virumaa in Estonia. Although, according to the European Commission's proposal, the eligible area is currently only Ida-Virumaa, we consider the possibility of supporting fair transition activities beyond a fair transition region in justified cases to be important in the negotiations on the draft if this contributes to the transition of the affected region. Question 4: 'A fair transition mechanism requires 1.5 times the additional contribution to a fair transition to the fund, at the expense of social and regional funds. Ministries have already distributed the expected social and regional funds. How will the redistribution of these funds to finance the activities of the Fair Transfer Fund be ensured in ministries? ' Estonia basically supports the linking of the European Union's Structural Funds and the Fair Transition Fund, but we wish to achieve a lower minimum mandatory transfer rate in negotiations with Member States and with the European Parliament than the 1.5-fold contribution proposed by the European Commission. Estonia and other Member States have been preparing for the next period of structural funds since 2018, including at least part of the investment needs of transition regions. It is in the interests of both the reputation of cohesion policy and the regions of the Euopa Union to ensure fair mobilisation of support, especially in the light of the current crisis, which will certainly be supported by structural instruments for recovery. We therefore believe that the linking of the European Union's Structural Funds and the Fair Transition Fund should be more flexible, for example by allowing appropriate investments to be taken into account from the Structural Funds to Ida-Virumaa, so that these funds do not need to be raised from the Structural Funds operational programme. Depending on the outcome of the negotiations and the final conditions for the use of the Fair Transition Fund, the government will also adapt the plans for the use of structural funds where necessary. The government has not yet decided on the national breakdown of the European Social Fund and the European Regional Development Fund, which must be agreed with the European Commission. Coordination of the Ministry of Finance is preparing an implementation plan for structural funds, together with proposals for a financing plan that will be discussed by the government in the near future. The decision shall be taken in accordance with the rules governing the use of European Union funds. I would also like to point out that the final terms have not been agreed in the European Union for structural instruments, nor is there an agreement in the next long-term EU budget, the MFF. There are therefore a number of other important variables related to the use of all EU instruments. Nevertheless, we must make preparations to be ready for fair use of support in 2021. The fifth question of the heirs: 'A fair transition mechanism requires a separate development plan for the eligible area to be drawn up. How is it designed, how is it planned to involve the people of Ida-Virumaa? ' A fair transition fund here is only one source that does not address all the challenges and activities needed. The central government of Estonia today has an Ida-Virumaa Action Plan, and the updated action plan must be ready by the end of this year in accordance with the decision taken at the meeting of the Government Office on 29 September 2019. The county has 'Ida-Virumaa county development strategy 2019 has 2030+', it is implemented through four-year action plans and is responsible for the Ida-Virumaa Municipalities Association. It is also possible to build on these development documents to support a successful transition. Therefore, in order to use the Fair Transition Fund, the transitional plan proposed by the European Commission makes sense on the basis of the above-mentioned development documents, taking into account the requirements to be met in the context of their renewal for the use of the Transition Fund. The upgrading of the Ida-Virumaa Action Plan and the development strategy of the county takes place in parallel with the Ministry of Finance and the Association of Ida-Virumaa Municipalities. The key objectives of engagement and participation will ensure the active participation of stakeholders in the setting-up of the strategy and the provision of information to the public. Involvement must be based on the principle that the preparation of a transition strategy is an open process and that all stakeholders who wish to contribute to solving today's and tomorrow's problems in Ida-Virumaa are expected and equally important. To this end, there will be broad involvement in the renewal of the development documents. Now I have answered five questions from the heirs. If you have any further questions, I am happy to answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U46	Thank you. Members of the Riigikogu have questions. First Ivari Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U47	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! Good education is certainly an important foundation for both the development of the country and the development of the region. In autumn 2019 the state gymnasium in Estonian was opened in Kohtla-Järve. Before opening it, we had a lot of heated debates about how to make our local Russian young people's education available in Estonian at all. It's been a while. How do you evaluate the first year of upper secondary school? Should other Estonian state secondary schools be based on examples such as Kohtla-Järve state secondary schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U48	Thank you. I remember very well when the opening of this school was in focus, and I believe you will also remember that it was just before the Riigikogu elections. I think that, in addition to the very substantive and serious questions, the fact that these discussions were directly in the pre-election period of the Riigikogu brought to the attention of the issues that needed to be resolved in connection with the Kohtla-Järve state gymnasium. How do I appreciate that? We know that many students have left, and I believe that the problems have been different. I certainly think that the Kohtla-Järve state gymnasium must go on, give the best of its ability to the director, teachers and the rest of the staff, do everything to make children want to go there, children want to be there and, most importantly, they will leave there with good Estonian skills, which will give them the opportunity to compete in the educational landscape and at some point in the labour market. I think that's the main thing. Making final decisions on the basis of the first year of study, I don't think we can do that. I think it's the right way to go. I'm sure the school is active. However, I do think that what can be improved in the future, and I think the head of the school has said this, is to make these relations even closer with the Kohtla-Järve community, with the people there, with the families of the students.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U49	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U50	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! On 27 February, when this question was made, the time was quite different, and we are now in a different situation. But tourism has been another success story alongside oil shale in Ida-Viru County, both domestic tourists and foreigners have found this beautiful place. There are lots of bets, sports opportunities, beautiful nature and very, very much interesting. Which one of us hasn't been back to Narva-Jõesuu in the last few years! In fact, there are quite a number of people working in this sector or in this sector who are either private limited company or self-employed, and there is nothing to be expected of the aid package that is now foreseen for emergency situations. What are they supposed to do? Should they stop doing business and start re-learning through the unemployment fund? The oil shale industry is not the only area in which to work in Ida-Virumaa!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U51	Thank you! First of all, I would like to thank you for this very positive introduction to the address of Ida-Virumaa, and I will respond, if you will allow, to begin with a bit of general philosophy. Ida-Virumaa has actually been the Estonian economy for decades, I dare say, one of the main locomotives. Mineral resources have come from Ida-Virumaa, which has perhaps been one of the most important natural resources for us. I mean, oil shale, which has given our people a great deal of work, helped the Estonian industry and Estonian entrepreneurship very strongly, gave us all electricity and light. Of course, I understand that the share of oil shale in electricity production is decreasing strongly, has already decreased today and is decreasing further. Despite this very large, I would say, the burden on this county, the nature of the county and the people, I agree with you that the nature of Ida-Viru County is magnificent, beautiful. The cultural objects there, the cities show their beauty, especially when they can be restored, even if it is still possible to restore footpaths, promenades, it gives a great deal more. Now, you're touching one of the important sectors in which Ida-Viru County has won. I mean, spas or, let's say, hotels. Yes, these are beautiful places of a well-known quality. What help does the package you asked about offer them? When we talk about spas, this package certainly offers all the similar measures that the unemployment fund offers to other Estonian counties. There were also self-employed people on your question. There is also a small measure for the self-employed: no payment claim for the first quarter of this year. If you ask about non-profits, I think the non-profits were also included in your question, third sector, then to them, I believe, a measure of EUR 25 million under the Ministry of Culture, which we will be discussing once and for all on Thursday this week, can provide some assistance. No measure in the supplementary budget adopted by the Riigikogu relates only to 14 counties, but they are also very clearly linked to the county of Ida-Viru. It is true that, for certain measures, such, well, if I may say, mitigation sectors or such separate financing are envisaged, but it concerns those areas where we have restricted traffic , these are insular municipalities or counties. So, yes, I think the unemployment fund measure is one, the other one is the cultural sector, but of course the EAS or KredEx measures are all equally applicable to Ida-Viru County. I will mention, for example, one of the EAS measures through which we want to support tourism with EUR 25 million. I think that this will go very well with your question, you have pointed out the plus of Ida-Virumaa, which is related to tourism. This measure must certainly also support this region. And I can't get over or around the local government measure: road construction, crisis aid and investment. In Estonia, Ida-Virumaa is one of the largest cities, which in financial terms will definitely receive support from this measure, but of course the municipalities will also receive support.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U52	Since Hanno Pevkur isn't in the hall, let's erase his name. Next up, Raimond asks Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U53	Thank you very much, Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! My question is this: should the Estonian state have a similar plan or package of social measures in times of crisis alongside this economic and business plan and package? If so, should it play an important role in areas where the income and standard of living of the population are lower than average, such as Ida-Viru County, South-East Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U54	Thank you. These measures will continue to work through the Ministry of Social Affairs. In case a person's coping clearly deteriorates, benefits are available. Local authorities are certainly very important partners here. After all, these measures have not been completed and the financing of these measures has not been cut in the state budget either. What Katri Raik, the representative of the heirs, said, we really see in Ida-Virumaa. The unemployment rate in Estonia as at 20 April is 7.2%, while in Ida-Virumaa the corresponding figure is 12.7%. If we compare the change in the number of unemployed registered in Ida-Virumaa by year, we will see that it has increased by 37.7%. In times of emergency, it has increased by approximately 14%, slightly below it by 13.7%. So there's no doubt that Ida-Viru County has been hit very hard. I am thinking here of the situation since 12 March, as I said, the emergency situation. What else? I am reminded at the moment of another measure, which, although not a social measure, has to do with preventing the spread of the virus. There are certain subsidies that we have decided to direct specifically to Ida-Virumaa and the major cities of Ida-Virumaa. They relate to public transport and to the fact that when people move between a city and a rural area, they are as few as possible in a means of public transport and sit as far away from each other as possible. There was a desire to tighten the lines there, but this is, of course, a temporary measure and is limited to the time of this crisis. All existing social measures are still in place. After all, certain wage measures are applied in Ida-Virumaa, where the additional coefficient is used for taking up employment in some state agencies. This measure is definitely to be continued. And, as I pointed out, in April a few days ago, the Minister of Public Administration has discussed additional activities to accelerate the development of Ida-Viru County, which are also linked to the fundamental principles of the establishment of a fair transition plan. These are preliminary proposals on which the Ministry has held discussions, including with other parties. The focus is on Ida-Virumaa, how to support the principles of using a fair transition fund and the sectors most affected by the transition to climate neutrality. In the Estonian context, this focus is very strongly linked to Ida-Viru county. There are other measures relating to Ida-Virumaa, for example the Ida-Virumaa programme, which will definitely go on. This is stated both in the state budget and in the state budget strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U55	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U56	Honourable Chairman! Good Prime Minister! Today's European Commission has, as we know, put Europe's green turn as a priority. And here's the question: do you consider it reasonable to spend several hundred million taxpayers' money to develop one of the world's most polluting fossil fuels, or oil shale industries, and at the same time ask us, the Estonian state, the European Union, for subsidies for the green turn of Europe? Don't you see a contradiction here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U57	I didn't hear one of your words before. I think you said a 'green turn', I get it. Yeah, I got it. First of all, I have heard a great deal of positive, which has come from Ida-Viru County as feedback on the construction of an oil plant and on the oil production sector from oil shale. The people of Ida-Viru County, as far as I have heard, have taken this decision very positively. No turn, even no turn, according to what I have learned about the environment, is ever linked to only one aspect, and so is the case with the environment. This is never linked to just one aspect. If we just want to talk about the environment, it's different. But the world is still talking about the principles of sustainable development and they are always linked to three sectors. Sustainable development is always about the economy, it is always about the social aspect, or employment, and people's livelihoods, and it is always about the environment. The common sections of these three sectors must be searched. If you want to talk about sustainable development, and I think this is what the grassroots means, then the economy and the social sphere must also be taken into account. I mean, I think this is a very clear ideological approach. If we say no, it has to take only the environment into account, well then there is another topic. Then your question is very well justified. It is clear that the production of a piece of oil shale leaves a footprint in the environment, which is something you should not argue about at all. We can say that if you produce oil shale electricity and energy, the footprint is bigger than if you produce oil from it then the footprint is smaller, but it is undoubtedly there. But here we also need to look at how our ecosystem lives and manages the economy, the social side - people and jobs - can cope. Speaking of the oil shale oil plant I described, yes, the government decided to increase the share capital by EUR 125 million. Eesti Energia shows that this is the right investment. This gives the people of Ida-Virumaa a job - this is precisely the social side that I think is extremely important. Your penguin, Katri Raik, pointed out, just like me, exactly the same numbers for both unemployment and registered unemployed. Jobs are important for Ida-Viru County. On the other hand, nothing can be done, we must also consider the economic output. According to Eesti Energia, oil shale oil is an attractive commodity on the world market over the next few years, and the market continues. And thirdly, it is certainly better for the environment than for electricity to be produced with a smaller footprint. I think these aspects were, to a large extent, a prerequisite for making these decisions. Moreover, when an oil factory is being built, it also gives people more work during the construction period, which is longer than one year. So, yes, my sense has been that Ida-Virumaa has accepted this message well. I want to say that what Ida-Virumaa I repeat from what I said at the beginning of the inquiry has been the result of what Ida-Virumaa miners, energetics, engineers and their households have given, this county has been making through its natural resources, has still been a huge success for the Estonian economic engine for decades. There's no way we can deny that. It's been very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U58	Thank you. Next thing you know, Katri Raik's gonna ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U59	Good President! Good Prime Minister! We have talked mostly about the oil plant today, but we have not talked about oil shale mining and the oil shale sector in general. The identity of the people of Ida-Virumaa is related to oil shale, oil shale is such a sacred thing, its brown gold. But we all understand that the oil shale energy sector is shrinking because of price, not because of anything else, it is neither your fault nor Mr. Sutter's. One oil plant, if I understand correctly and listen to specialists, will use about a third of the oil shale that would otherwise have been used in energy. This means that the extraction of oil shale will in any case contract. The sector's shrinking anyway. Even if we have the ability to restart the oil shale power plant, it is unlikely that we will. I've had to answer a lot of questions about energy people, but, Katri, what do I do if I stay in work, where do I go if I get 40% more than the average in the region right now? As a person, how would you respond to this man in the energy sector, who asks if he is going away from his family to Norway, to become a taxi driver, to be a long-distance driver. So what's he gonna do? People's concerns are really great.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U60	Thank you. It's no secret you know Ida-Virumaa well. And now there's an interesting aspect. As far as I'm concerned with the perception of the previous questioner and your sense of this matter, I can see that the senses are a little different. But there's nothing wrong with that. Well, in fact, the fall in the oil shale sector has not only been linked to the market price. We cannot get over or around the fact that, of course, it is also linked to the environmental footprint. I think that the market price is such a catalyst or catalyst, just a speeder, to the fact that we are trying to take a step out of oil shale energy. But, yes, you are right that people in this sector are working well in their work. It is safe to say that they receive about 30% more wages than the Estonian average. And your question is entirely justified. I think, of course, I do not know what the sense of the Social Democratic Party is today, that it is still trying to ensure that families are together and that people are together. My message is not for them to go to work in Finland now. From Ida-Virumaa there is a long journey to Tallinn and there is still a ship to cross the bay. We must make every effort to ensure that there are jobs in Ida-Virumaa and that there are as good jobs as possible. Now the same fair transfer fund comes into play, and here comes a very interesting thing. In the case of the Fair Transition Fund, it aims to support entrepreneurship, renewable energy or energy, development in the field of digitalisation, as well as retraining of workers. And, in my opinion, the first and last member of this list is, once again, support for entrepreneurship and retraining for workers, some steps for the future. Of course, I do not think that if someone is now a good miner, a good energy engineer or engineer, tomorrow, for example, will be an excellent representative of the collaborative economy. And I don't think we need to pursue that. We do not have to apply for this! The transition must still be balanced. It can't be this week, and next week we'll make Ida-Viru County a hundred percent different. Well, what? That's not gonna work! That is why I say that these steps must be taken wisely, step by step. The outlook for the oil plant is estimated at 10 to 15 years. Let us be honest, if we look today at the consumption of coal energy and these plants in the various countries of the European Union, we will see that there are countries like these that are going forward with these issues. So we can't say that everything's been pulled off here. For me, of course, it is also very important that more national resources be devoted to this area. Let us be honest, in the last 20 to 30 years, it has not been much targeted there. On the scientific side, too, take the university to help with further research and research of oil shale. I have met scientists at TalTech, or Tallinn University of Technology, and they say they would be interested. Perhaps in the future we will have more wisdom to produce even smarter and more environmentally friendly products than oil shale. It's not out of the question at all. So in the end, Katri Raik, it seems to me that if I understood you correctly, I'm on the same side with you. No, I'm not saying that oil shale is now one hundred percent in Ida-Viru County, if I understood you correctly. I'm sorry if I misunderstood! I agree that the transition must take place, that is what we understand. The share of oil shale in energy falls and it falls quite strongly, and it has already fallen. And you're right to say that there is one thing that I agree with, but the other is also the environmental aspect. One thing that is required, and that is much asked about in the electoral debates, is when Püx will take place. Give me the date. And I say we still count on what Ida-Viru County has given, what these people, households and oil shale have given. Today, we have to follow the rules that are prescribed, and if these rules are to be applied, the oil factory will certainly reduce this footprint.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U61	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U62	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! I will continue on the issue of a fair transition fund. The Fair Transition Fund is a €7.5 billion fund that allows Estonia to support sectors in need of support with 125 million euros, which is 125 million euros for seven years. That's a small amount for seven years, and I'm sure you've started negotiating to increase this amount significantly. In these negotiations, we certainly want to be supportive on the side of Parliament, because this amount must be increased. How do you feel if the decision to invest in an oil plant improves Estonia's position in these negotiations if it is known that the European Commission only wants to support countries that have approved the climate change change target, or rather reduces Estonia's perspective to increase this 125 million sum?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U63	Thank you. I think it is very right that we in the Riigikogu bring out very specific sections of the subject, as you have pointed out in your question. First of all, I do not think I am much wrong when I say that the Fair Transfer Fund came seriously into the picture at the beginning of this year, at the beginning of January. The new President of the Commission, the former German Minister for Defence, Mrs Ursula von der Leyen, said that a fair transition fund was the right thing. And I think this is the right thing. Now, we can also say today, on 20 April 2020, that there really is no fair transfer fund, because there is no MFF, and as long as there is no MFF, there is basically nothing, there is no budget for the next European Union. It is clear, as Katri Raik said, that we live in a very different society and situation when we lived, unless I was wrong on 27 February. And that's right. Now from the fair transfer fund and the reason it came about. I am talking about the Council's discussions. The Council's discussions were linked to the fact that, when we talk about climate neutrality, we are going to the end of last year, and at the beginning of this year, many states said that we have evolved in a very different way over the last half-century, that our investment opportunities have been much weaker, that there has been occupation, etc. It was, if I don't make a mistake in spring 2019 or in June, when Estonia was one who said that today we cannot decide. There were four countries, if I'm not mistaken. We're talking about the climate neutrality you brought in. We said that we would very much like to take such a scientific and fundamental approach in terms of whether or not Estonia is ready to achieve climate neutrality in Europe by 2050. Here we have to say a great deal of thanks to the scientists who took this subject apart and showed that it would take 17 billion at the level of prices at that time, so that Estonia could meet Europe's objective of climate neutrality by 2050. For this to happen, both the private and the public sectors must cooperate. It should also be said that the private sector's contribution was provided for in 2/3. Now, the Fair Transfer Fund came to the picture very strongly in terms of how it would be used. Here came some countries of the European Union, such as Poland, but also Estonia, who said that Poland has coal, but we have oil shale. I remember doing such a trick that I dropped a piece of oil shale on Ursula von der Leyen's table at the time of the meeting. He wasn't mad. I said, you see, there's a rock or a lump. And then there was really a lot of negotiation. First of all, by the way, oil shale was not at all included in the fair transfer fund. Then it was put in there, and we began to argue about labour and labour market indicators, whether or not if I was not mistaken for the four criteria of oil shale or not taken into account. Yeah, you're right, it was 125 million, and eventually it increased to 140 million. So my sense of feeling today is that, as the European Union looks at, the fair transition fund is really what will make an additional contribution to this energy transformation. You know that the Estonian Government has supported the European Union's goal of achieving climate neutrality by 2050. This decision is valid and I think it is the right one. When it comes to whether the European Council has approved it, as far as I know, the last time we discussed it, there was another country that said that we needed more time for these discussions, and that was not Estonia. Now from the fair transition mechanism. On 14 January 2020, the Commission proposed that ad hoc assistance be provided through this mechanism, providing at least EUR 100 billion for the period 2021-2027 to mitigate the economic and social consequences in the regions most affected by the transition to climate neutrality. Basically, there is also reference here to those who have to do this transformation in energy. The mechanism includes three main financial instruments. Indeed, one is the same fair transition fund for which EUR 7.5 billion will be allocated from the European Union budget, as you rightly said. This is done within the framework of the MFF proposal. Under the proposal, when using the Fund's resources, the state must add a 1.5 to 3 times its own contribution. This multiplier is 1.5 to 3 and this amount must come from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) or the European Social Fund (ESF). This is complemented by public self-financing. Overall, it is estimated that the European Union will make available in this way an estimated €30.50 billion. The contribution from the Fund will be distributed among the Member States according to the distribution keys, the criteria for which are covered, as I have told you, also oil shale. Once again, at the beginning, when we started negotiating them, that was not the case. For example, the size of the economy and of the carbon and the number of jobs in the region are now also taken into account. If the total amount of the fund proposed by the Commission is maintained during the negotiations, Estonia will account for about 125 million of it. This is the relatively highest rate of support per country, approximately EUR 95 per person. In the country that follows us, we always want to compare ourselves - this figure is 65 euros per person. It is possible to provide business support for economic recovery, as I said before to Katri Raig, but also for research and innovation projects, renewable energy, energy efficiency and infrastructure investments, and for our lovely digitalisation and digital connectivity. It is also possible to provide grants for retraining workers and support for job search. I repeat, Keit, in answering your question once again, I believe that this oil factory will not add to anything or make the situation worse. I don't have any letters on the black white so that this fourth oil factory would make things worse or give you something more. And once again, of course it can't last more than 2050, that's understandable.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U64	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It is true that people in Ida-Virumaa need jobs. I don't know any people who would be happy if they didn't have a job to do to feed their family. It's perfectly natural. My concern is that we do not know what the world will be like after a while. Oil, as you said, is an attractive commodity, but we don't really know what the future holds. Have you also considered such a scenario that what happens if the price of oil in the world does not return to this level, so that it would still be profitable for Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U66	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U67	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Estonia's climate goals and the development plan for the energy economy foresee the erection of well more than 200 windmills in Estonia. With this number of windmills, the construction of a factory for the production of windmills in Estonia is worthwhile. If it were built in Ida-Virumaa, at least as many jobs could be created there as EUR 125 million in the oil shale oil plant. They would be highly remunerated and long-term and would not force the opening of new mines, and public support for the private sector would be so low that it could support the creation of many other jobs. My question is not about a fair transfer fund. My question is that if the renewable energy perspective is very good and these jobs are very good in this area, why do you not invest public money in it? And if you do, maybe you can give an example.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U68	Yeah, that's very right. The respective study and report will, of course, have to be reviewed by the Ministry of Finance and Eesti Energia before the final investment is made. A decision must be made based on the latest information that can be done. Yeah, I think it's definitely important. You're asking who can decide what's in five, seven or ten years. It is probably based on the fact that the price of oil on the world market will not fall below a certain limit in the longer term, but will not fall in the longer term. I guess that's what the well-known women-men of Eesti Energia have done, and the Ministry of Finance has reviewed it. That's the way it is. But now, on 20 April, give three drops of blood and say that the price of oil will be like this for the next 15 years, let's say that the factory will be completed in 2024, plus 15 years, so let's put it in, so by 2040, I don't think anyone here can accurately appreciate it. You have the right question. Of course, there are also risks and risks associated with each investment, and certainly this is also the case with this very large investment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U69	Thank you very much. I think that this question needs a more comprehensive answer when we talk about Estonia's national energy and climate plan, as you pointed out in the introduction to your question. I understand that this concerns the period up to 2030 in your question. If this plan is undertaken, it is true that the government has confirmed it on 19 December 2019 and it is the 'Estonia's national energy and climate plan for 2030'. Its wider aim is to provide the people and businesses of Estonia and other Member States with as precise information as possible about the measures that the Estonian state intends to achieve the energy and climate policy objectives agreed in the European Union. The main objectives of this plan are as follows: First of all, Estonia's greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced by 80% by 2050 and, as I said in response to the inquiry, emissions must be reduced by 70% by 2030. Now further, in sectors covered by a shared commitment regulation, such as transport, small energy, agriculture, waste management, forestry and industry, greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced by 13% by 2030 compared to 2005. Next, the share of final energy consumption in 2030 must be at least 42%, which you also mentioned more specifically in your question. The final energy consumption will have to be maintained at 32 to 33 TWh/a until 2030. Primary energy consumption must be reduced by up to 14% compared to the peak in recent years. It also aims to ensure energy security by keeping the level of dependence on imported energy as low as possible. The objectives include meeting the minimum interconnection criteria for electricity networks between countries, including increasing capacity towards Latvia and synchronisation of the electricity network with the Central European frequency band in 2025. It should be said that already from MFF, the European Commission has actually given quite important support to the three Baltic States, Poland is also here with us, and this is important for us. The final objective of the plan is to use R &amp; D &amp; I to keep the economy competitive. These are such important aspects of the scheme. Now wind energy, which you are also talking about, its use in a broader sense and its job creation. Undoubtedly, wind energy also provides jobs, but, of course, repeating to a lesser extent than, for example, I don't know, oil shale energy. But we have to take into account that we have not developed these wind farms in recent years, even for more than ten years in Estonia. The reasons have been different, though not suitable for height, although visual pollution is not suitable. Even if you make it far and far away from the sea, over 10 kilometers away, they still say it doesn't fit. Let's just say it's pretty difficult to find consensus in society. And there are windmills in Ida-Viru County. We can't say there's no wind power in Ida-Viru County. Yes, it is. I also wanted to say that I have just one very interesting project on the table, which I would like to talk to my colleagues from Latvia and Lithuania the day after tomorrow. But I really want to talk about this with the Nordic and Baltic countries. And this is about starting to seriously move on with the development of submarine cables between the North and the Baltic region. One idea, a very specific idea that we want to start, is that of wind energy on the sea border of Estonia and Latvia in the Gulf of Riga. But I think that we should immediately look at the whole approach, the whole system, and here the common position between the Nordic and the Baltic countries is also important, the common principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U70	Thank you. There's no Raimond Kaljulaid in the hall, but he's already asked his question. In the case of an inquiry, only one question can be asked, so let's delete his name. Next, Hele Everaus asks. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U71	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr Prime Minister! Unfortunately, Estonia stands at the very end of its health outcomes, both among OECD countries and among the countries of the European Union. And when we look at Estonia's different regions, Ida-Virumaa is unfortunately at the end of the Estonian region. What does that mean? This means that people living there are considerably shorter, that children up to 14 years of age get one and a half times more frequent respiratory diseases, and that there is the highest mortality rate in Estonia in cardiovascular and tumour diseases. Some may be associated with environmental impacts and some may also be associated with social problems, such as the highest prevalence of immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Here's what I want to ask you. The beautiful word 'climate neutrality' has a very specific meaning in every sense for the people of Ida-Viru County, and the oil factory is probably less polluting, but I wonder if very specific analyses have been carried out...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U72	Time's up!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U73	... The health status of people in the Ida-Virumaa region. How do we proceed with this and what are the possible effects of the proposed plant?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U74	Thank you. I'm about to say I don't have the information right now about the impact of the oil plant on public health at hand. I'm sure I'll have that analysis sent to you as far as I can, and I'll take a look at it myself. But the whole descriptive part you were saying is unfortunately correct. Now I don't know exactly what context you put oil shale in, but you pointed out in your question such a social background or the social side of people. This is, in fact, what I emphasised, or at least I tried to emphasise earlier in replying, that when we are talking about, I think Mr. Juske was asking only about the environment, that is one issue, but in today's society, we are talking about sustainable development, sustainable development. In English I now apologize to the Riigikogu here to celebrate it is sustainable development, it was very common in the late 1990s and early 2000s. I guess now there's new words, but it's the same idea. The point is how, as people, we can take into account the economy in the context of the growing environmental footprint in a changing environment, which I and we are all creating, and how we can count on the social side. In my opinion, no major project of this kind, 125 million, or this whole oil factory, is a huge investment, a very large financial one, to look at just one side. If you now ask, as you rightly ask, what is its impact on public health, then the other side must also be added here, that really, in this sector there are among the highest salaries in Ida-Viru County, I think. And it is not only about the salary of this particular person, but I think that it is very likely that this household, let us say, will also have to live and manage. I will review this aspect of public health, I promise, and I will give you an overview as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U75	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U76	Thank you. Prime Minister! I will explain the question to one of my fellow Members. This is an investment of around EUR 300 million in taxpayers' money in a situation where banks do not want to finance this type of project. Mr Helme, Minister of Finance, said in the Commission that banks are ideological, for ideological reasons, they do not want to do so, and so throughout the world. Well, I think it's more appropriate to think that banks assess the potential risk, including political risk, more adequately than Martin Helme. Now, the question is simple: what happens if, in 2024, the price of oil is less than $45 per barrel and taxpayers' money, the factory built for €300 million does not start, just does not start because prices are low? It's what a lot of experts believe. If you happen to be the Prime Minister at that time, will you take political responsibility and resign or ask Hando Sutter to do so? I asked Hando Sutter the same question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U77	Thank you. Sweet Evgeny! With you here in the political rhetorical competition, I'm down. One: 0, you win! What do you want me to say now? How long has anyone been prime minister? Well, I don't know how long someone will be prime minister. But let us come to the content of this question. That is what the member of the Riigikogu, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, asked. He asked the same question in principle, referring to the possibility that the price of oil on the world market could be much lower than that shown by the numbers that Eesti Energia has now put on paper. It is clear that with very high probability (a) there is no point in launching such an oil plant and (b) no one buys oil with such input. I'm sure there's a risk. The question is whether this risk is estimated to be minimal, medium or maximum today. Your question was so specific about 2024. I also said to Kristina Šmigun-Vähi that in five years' time there would be a price like this, but we don't know what's in seven years' time, ten years' time or, I don't know, 12 years' time. I think it is quite difficult to say what the price of oil will be on the world market in four or five years' time, while some kind of input will also exist in previous years and decades. Now, the last part of your question: who is responsible? The decision to build an oil plant, the 300 million-dollar decision, must still be made by the Estonian Energy Council. Whether or not a loan is made on the market, I am not familiar with these negotiations. If you want to ask about political responsibility, you know very well who is politically responsible in the government. It is always the case that when things are bad, the Prime Minister is responsible, and when things are good, the whole government is responsible. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U78	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister! During the last weeks, the Riigikogu has adopted an additional budget and the government has approved a large number of aid programmes. I have such a modest request: would it be possible to communicate to us the distribution of the money that is going to be distributed to Estonia? It would probably be an argument for Ida-Virumaa if there were a table showing that there was so much money for road repair, for example, that so much goes to Ida-Virumaa and that is the percentage. It would be even more interesting for Ida-Virumaa not so much for this hall if this table also showed the distribution of money between different municipalities. The financial allocation of all these programmes, be it 30 million, 70 million or 6 million, would perhaps be the best response to end this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U80	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U81	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister! First of all, I would like to express my hope that, in the light of this first question, the next time in the Middle Week, there will be no bubbles in how much money the Central Party government brought to Ida-Virumaa. But now to the question. Mr Ossinovski pointed out that Minister of Finance Martin Helme stated in the Committee on Economic Affairs that the state must give 125 million to Eesti Energia, because banks do not finance this project for ideological reasons. I have so far understood that banks are trying to stay away from any ideology. Their only ideology is whether the venture is economically viable or not, whether or not they get their loan money back. Do you agree with Mr Helme that in this case, for ideological reasons, the banks do not want to finance this project? And can you explain what these ideological reasons are?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U82	Thank you. The answer is yes, of course we can send. Thank you for the budget. Thank you very much for this work and for adopting the budget. There really is, as you say, road money, crisis measures, investment. It is precisely these measures that should come under discussion this Thursday and Friday, 23 and 24 April. And at least what the Minister of Public Administration is offering us today is that all the tables contain numbers for 79 municipalities, i.e. the numbers are self-government. Once we have agreed on this at government level, of course we will send it forward. There's no question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U83	Thank you. This ad from the Centre Party, as you said, with big bubbles, I have said that it was wrong information, wrong advertising, it is not the Centre Party money, and I have apologized. I agree that if you want to keep upset here and point the finger at it, of course you have the right to do so. But I still say the same thing, it was the wrong ad. I guess you've read my comment, too. I agree you can keep bringing out that ad here. I don't know what image the Minister of Finance gave me in response to this. I understand that it was in the Committee on Economic Affairs, as you said, or in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. After all, those who were members of this committee could have asked what he meant by that and what those ideological considerations were. As far as I know, the banks still operate on the markets for a different consideration, that is, above all, profit-making, profit-chasing. But I also want to say this, having talked to a bank manager today, the head of a Scandinavian bank operating in Estonia, that there are also examples where banks are really trying to help people at one point, also in the light of this crisis. As far as I am concerned, the Banking Union wants to agree that if people who have lost their jobs and are unable to pay their monthly payment ask for a holiday, they will be given it. That's a good example. I have heard that I do not know whether all banks allow it, but some banks do not ask for a contract change fee, sometimes hundreds or thousands of euros, when this agreement is being amended. So I think that, in general, banks still behave the way it is appropriate in the business world to be sustainable and to make a profit. However, there are also social aspects such as this one example that I have given you, but of course the situation is different and much more complicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U84	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U85	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! At the end of one of your earlier responses, you mentioned the interesting thing that this week you will introduce to the members of the government an interesting project concerning the building of submarine energy cables in the Gulf of Livonia. I was curious, and I'm asking if you could tell me a little bit more about it. Is this anything other than the disengagement of the Baltic States from the Russian energy network, which should be done by 2025?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U86	Thank you. I said it was on my desk, but of course we'll have to discuss at some point in the government whether or not to go ahead with it. This is particularly the case with research. This is no alternative to synchronization in 2025. It is clear that at one point we could see a much wider picture, but it is still possible in many years' time. But I think this whole picture could really be on the table at some point. At the moment, such a concrete step, which we have discussed with my Latvian fellow official, is indeed linked to the development of a common wind farm, which could be on the Estonian-Latvian sea border in the Gulf of Riga. But I think it could be further developed and that at one point it could be much wider.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U87	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U88	Thank you for this very important question. I think that private investors are very practical and are certainly very good at evaluating risks. Now, this is a serious set of questions you've just put on the table. This is a completely new angle in the round of questions and answers to this question, and I think it needs to be dealt with thoroughly. I mean, broadly speaking, I will stick to this position, as I answered at the end of the fourth question. The answer was that, as far as the pre-refinery is concerned, there is no decision to establish it. The Government's Committee on Climate and Energy is likely to discuss this issue in May of this year when a new feasibility study is completed. But I stress once again that everything depends on coronavir, the debate may be delayed and not in May. The government's decisions are based on existing pre-refinery analyses at the time of the decision, as well as on State aid analyses. That's what I'm gonna stick to. Indeed, it is interesting that in this round of questions and answers, no one has presented a pre-refinery as basically as you have. In this sense, it is right that there was also a very serious debate about this issue in society. And really, there's no decision about the pre-refinery. Now, you bring out two good private companies, Alexela and VKG. Alexela's decision I don't know so well, I just may not have that many contacts, but I do know VKG's. They have said that they would like the State to contribute to this pre-refinery in order to create a group or consortium with a public company, at least one private company, but perhaps Alexela. In the course of the debate, the question arose that if the country came in, we would lend all the money there. It was an interesting moment that the interest was no longer so great. Perhaps this has also been one of the reasons why we really want to consider the pre-refinery even more seriously. We have not made that decision. But it's a much bigger bite now, even financially, when it's an oil factory. If I don't remember too badly, I think it was about 600 million, 500, 600 million. I would say that if you rely on Mr Ossinovski's expertise, according to which the new oil plant will cost 300 million, what I am talking about will cost twice as much, 100% more. So we haven't made that decision. True, there are those in society who say that if you do an oil plant, it is a so-called semi-refinery and its production is not yet the final product. It has to be processed somewhere else, for which there is no possibility in Estonia, and only then can it be put in the fuel tank of ships and trains. Well, that's what we're arguing about. Some say that it is necessary in any case, because then this product would be much more liquid and then it would certainly be bought and the secondary market would also be much safer than the oilworks. But also a bite is much bigger, as I said, compared to Mr Ossinovski's expertise, it is twice as big. We have not made that decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U89	Thank you. Prime Minister! Why do you think that the oil shale industry, based on private capital, both Alexela and VKG, want to receive subsidies from the state and have abandoned further investment in oil shale processing facilities? Among other things, the VKG has said that it does not wish to put money in a pre-refinery. However, the taxpayer must, at your request, give millions to a high-risk business. Are private investors blind and not seeing the pink dream Hando Sutter is talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U90	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Our colleagues here have asked a great deal about the reasonableness of investments, and here I must certainly agree with them that banks are assessing their own risks. But what if there is a market failure in the region, if the cost of our underlying assets is much lower than in the areas of Tallinn and Harjumaa, for example, and because of this, it is actually difficult to obtain the loan money? For example, representatives of Ida-Virumaa Industrial Areas Development Foundation have encountered this problem, who have been trying to create new jobs in the region for years. At this point, I have to ask how much is the state prepared to intervene and, at all, to intervene and support higher-risk investments in the regions in order to help their development.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U92	Thank you. I think that is a very legitimate and very correct question. Personally, I am in favour of this with two hands, otherwise it is the case that there will be no investment there. These investments may not be made under normal market conditions. Of course you have to support me. I will come back to this again, I think for the third time now, that if we have received so much from Ida-Viru County, Estonia has received much, Estonia's entrepreneurship has received much, then it is also necessary to give it back. And what has been given back, let's face it, is a lot less. It's a lot less than that!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U93	Thank you, Prime Minister. No further questions for you. Let's go to the negotiations. Mikhail Stalnukhin, 5 + 3 minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister! Colleagues! Above all, I would like to thank everyone who signed this inquiry! It shows that you hurt your heart, and Ida-Viru County doesn't give a shit. But since I have been hearing such debates here for almost 20 years, the question arises as to who is to blame for the fact that it is in Ida-Virumaa. Here is a song that I sang in the dorm when I was young: 'Do not take responsibility for the one who looks upon us from above. ' If you hear me out, you'll know I'm right. Nobody's responsible for that. At the beginning of the century, around 2004 there was historically the lowest unemployment in Ida-Viru County. There is never a place in Narva since 2005-2006. For the last year, unemployment would have been below 4%. It was a fantastic result. Everything evolved, somehow too well developed, had to ruin something. It's Nord Stream. We've already applauded Sillamäe, congratulated Tiit Vähi on coming to the service station, 200 jobs, hundreds of millions to the state budget. And then this hall, at the time, was green here, raised the debate, I was in Narva, watching it on TV, that no, we are opposed, not in any way! Mr Aaviksoo suspected that this gas pipe could be fired for a total length of 1,000 kilometres. Even Ansipil threw over at the time. I am simply reminding you: 200 permanent jobs, 2000 jobs during the construction phase, continuous transit and constant transit to the state budget. And everyone was lost to run a meeting and get a hold of it, and somewhere to tell some kind of story that I'm a patriot. After one of the reforms came, Anthropov was his name to Ida-Virumaa, he made a show where he said there was nothing, Europe was short of one pipe, Russia was starting to pull another pipe, and we are not giving it to others. It's a quote. He and all of you then understood the blow you had taken to the Estonian economy, above all to Ida-Virumaa. I checked out a few things. Bronze soldier. One Prime Minister suddenly says, "Ah, we don't need Russian transit!" The Latvians said thank you and Ventspils served Russian transit for 12 years. One part went to Latvia, the other part went to Finland and Sweden. They got the money that we had just thrown out of the treasury. And for what? To go to the bathroom, to jump and show you who's the biggest patriot in this hall. Port. I would remind you that we had a fantastic plan to develop the Port of Sillamäe and Tallinn. A lot of work had already been done. Only after 2007, after the bronze soldier started developing the port of Ust-Luga. I went there in 2005. Then there was an empty site, now it is Europe's third largest port, 180 million tonnes a year. The political order to develop it came after all that took place in 2007. Became toiletled, became shown who was a patriot. Now get in the pocket! Year 2014 and sanctions. I'm talking about Narva in the background because I can feel it. Narva has two possibilities to develop. One is industrial parks, we already have four, the largest is with the help of the state. For two years, I explained to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications what we need this country for. It took years to plan, everything else. We had the whole distribution done, we had most of the land booked. It's 2014 and there's a meeting, damn it! There's always a big meeting going on on these revolutionary sailors. After that, we missed our reservations. There's only one company that's left with 350 jobs now, producing a very good thing, water filters. But there were 12 others. Everyone's stuck, everybody's broken up. This year. The statement that was made here, and for what it was said, how history must not be distorted. First of all, how many historians do you have in this hall who even know this history? I'd like to know who I can argue with here. Let's sit down. Make it clear to me what it says in that statement. What will result from this? I don't know yet, but something's definitely coming up and Ida-Virumaa is hit again. It is simply not possible for Ida-Viru County to develop without knowing what will happen tomorrow. The question of the price of oil was raised here, it was said that we do not know what it will become. Practice has shown that in the last two months, life has shown us that we do not even know what will happen to oil tomorrow. But the real question is also that we do not know what happens to our economy and what kind of blow we get because there is no responsibility here either for the state or for the voters. When I came here, I was pretty indifferent, because I've heard it all a hundred times, and I know what the answer is and what the answer is, but I got pissed off again. So I'm sorry if that hate speech hurt you, but you can't be offended by the truth. Because I told you the truth about what we're doing in this hall. These meetings will be a blow to the periphery, south-eastern Estonia and Ida-Virumaa, where people will, of course, say no thank-yous for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U95	Thank you. Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U96	Good fellows! Good Prime Minister! In the emotional and consensus-finding discussions, President Lennart Meri said that our party is Estonia. Today we can say that we, who are in this hall, are united by Ida-Viru County. The subject we have been talking about today is deeper and wider. Dear colleagues Dmitri Dmitriyev and Mikhail Stalnukhin, we live in Ida-Viru County and I believe they share my saying that it is painful to look at people's fear of the future. I am concerned about internal security if unemployment rises by more than 20% and if there are no additional labour market measures. I hope that, regardless of political affiliation, we will vote for them. We've talked a lot about the oil plant today, we've talked about the footprint of the oil plant, and we think it's a big footprint. Many local people will be able to work on the construction of a single oil plant, we do not know how much, after which about 140 people will work directly in the oil plant, of course there will also be jobs. This is not the solution to the whole problem of Ida-Viru County, so to say it is certainly short-sighted. They always ask what the other idea is. If there's no other idea, there's nothing to talk about. It may be an agropark built on power plants. Certainly, the beautiful idea presented by Dmitri Dmitriyev and praised by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas is to guarantee loans to local companies. In conclusion, Ida-Viru County needs money for a fair transition, which is not mysterious in any way. When we talk about Ida-Viru County, there's a number of 125 million all the time. It's not 125 million, it's 500 million plus different loan mechanisms. I don't think it makes any sense to find the guy who did this. When I asked the local people on my facial book account today what they think is the biggest concern in Ida-Virumaa, it is said that support is expected, jobs are expected. People don't want to be home, they don't want to be in a weak position. The question is whether the Estonian state understands us. I believe that the Estonian state cannot be guilty either. But with our own work, we represent the decisions of the state, and we would earn the respect and respect of local people if we could find solutions to the problems of Ida-Viru County. Of course, we must consider that we also have South-East Estonia and Saaremaa and, after all, Tallinn, but we try to look towards Ida-Viru County in agreement. I believe that this would be a very good thing to do and would certainly make a good colleague, Mikhail Stalnukhin, feel better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U97	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U98	Thank you, Mr President. I'm asking for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U99	5 + 3 minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U100	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't have a prepared speech, but I've been working on it for a long time, and I have some remarks. They were already presented at the committee meeting mentioned here, but I think they deserve to be reflected in the large hall of the Riigikogu, because the investment in the oil factory is a decision that has been made at a time when the normal social debate is suppressed. As a result, there has also been no proper social debate, and I think that this is the worst thing about this decision in terms of democracy, that it has been adopted right now. These pros and cons, allies and opponents have been known for a long time and this type of decision should be taken at a time when the functioning of normal democratic mechanisms is possible. However, they do not work at the moment, including limited freedom of assembly. I want to draw attention to two issues relating to the oil shale oil plant or the oil shale industry, but first a small mark. I started my political life in 2011, applying in Ida-Virumaa. Twice I've been elected. All this time, the decline of the oil shale sector and the uncertainty surrounding it have been at the heart of the social debate there. In 2011, Mr Dimitriev, a colleague, remembers this very well; he was then Mayor of Kiviõli, the owner of the then stone oil chemical industry, threatened to shut down the plant because he could not agree on a mining permit with the Environmental Board. 650 people had to stay out of work. I, a young member of the Riigikogu, asked the customs Prime Minister, Andrus Ansi, how he helps to prevent a social disaster in Ida-Viru County. That was 2012, I'll tell you by memory. In 2016 I was Minister of Health and Labour, and oil prices were unprecedentedly low. Terrible story, no one could see it coming, hundreds of people laid off. The VKG even let go; Eesti Energia probably only threatened. The government rushed to hold a special session in Narva, adopted a bunch of measures to reduce mining charges, return environmental charges, God knows what. At the Ministry of Social Affairs, an additional labour market measure was proposed and developed under my leadership so that people could find a new job. And then they said that if we get these things, that's it, that's the joy, that the oil shale sector will live on, and that people will get jobs and bread. It's been four years, and actually, we're back in the same place again. In this context, we hope that the more we invest in this area, the better the county of Ida-Viru will, unfortunately, have experience of this. Experience does not confirm this in any other country that has extracted either oil shale or coal or this type of thing, given the context of today's European climate policy. These communities are very vulnerable because they are so heavily dependent on fossil fuel. The Prime Minister drew attention to the surprising paradox, at first glance surprisingly, that you see, some colleagues say that this is a very bad decision for the environment and should not be made, but other colleagues say that the solution to the social problem is inadequate by the government. But it really is both at the same time, that's why it's a bad decision. For the environment, it is unambiguously bad, and it is insufficient to solve the social problem. According to Statistics Estonia, 8,000 people worked in the mining industry in 2000. Today, the oil shale industry may have 4,000 jobs, and if we talk about statistics, it will have decreased about twice. The technological process has improved. This new factory also employs considerably fewer people than old factories, mines become more effective, etc. Seeing hundreds of millions of investments in oil shale as a solution to the employment problem here is simply an irrational use of money. Now, more specifically from the oil factory. The government has clearly made these decisions without considering the risks sufficiently. In the Commission, Mr Sutter showed us colourful pictures of them, he is always very good at showing them from different price forecasts, based on estimates from the World Energy Agency. Among other things, it is discussing how oil production or consumption is expected to decrease by around 0.2 million barrels per day in 2020. This beautiful schedule was based on a March analysis. In April, I looked at, the same organization made a new assessment, a few weeks later, when Hando Sutter spoke, and it is already said that instead of zero there are minus 10 million barrels a day. There hasn't been this low since 1995. This is the biggest shock in the oil industry in recent decades. No one knows how long it will be restored and whether the floor is in place. We see some oil price, which is about $25 and $30 a barrel, but what it really is is a question of its own. Eesti Energia says that you see, we have the oil sold because we have financial security for all oil production this year and 3/4 next year. Yeah, they'll get the money, but no one wants the oil. Nobody wants that oil right now, nobody wants that oil. Real production will not be sold. There's still a financial situation at the moment, but the production warehouses are so full that it'll soon be clogged. Totally incorrect information is shared, and the Prime Minister regrettably repeated it, how it is a very clean way to process oil shale. Actually, that's not the case, it's the dirtyest liquid fuel ever. Yes, indeed, if we produce electricity from it, Estonia's emissions will be greater than when we produce oil from it and that oil will be lit by someone else. But if we put these two things together, it's called a life cycle, then life cycle emission is about a third larger for oil shale oil than it is for oil-derived fuels. Terribly dirty fuel is this. Of course, it takes more energy to produce it in order to squeeze oil out of this stone during a thermophysical process. Now, most importantly, I would like to talk about another subject, but I will not make it. The most important sign of this is, in fact, what has not been given absolute attention. Eesti Energia bases its oil price forecasts on the volumes and prices of the International Energy Agency, which in fact provides that the Paris climate agreement will not be met and will essentially be thrown into the waste bin. Think for yourself, the Estonian state company puts money and forces the taxpayer to put money on the map that the Paris agreement will blow up and with it the hope that we, as a society, as a human race, will manage to prevent catastrophic climate change will blow up. This is still a pretty harsh message that the Estonian state and, together with it, the Estonian government are giving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U101	Thank you. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please! 5 + 3 minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U102	Thank you, good manager. Colleagues! Prime Minister! One of the lessons that the current crisis teaches is how connected the world is and how fragile the world functions and balances. These events, which seem to be happening somewhere far away, reach here and every other corner of the world faster than they think. Today is the case with the virus, but tomorrow, figuratively speaking, is the same with climate change. We have all already witnessed air once again being breathable in the most polluted places in the world. Very contaminated water has become cleaner again. And all of this has been happening very quickly, all of this has taken place in the last few weeks, at a time when we have been forced to correct our previous patterns and models of behaviour. If we could change our behavior and habits constantly, permanently, and if we were to use modern and clean technology, the result would be not only temporary but much more profound. It seems to me that nature is giving us a very painful signal, through the current pandemic, that it simply cannot go on the same way. And if we understand this message, the crisis can, in the end, give a huge boost to innovation, it can create completely new, modern and well-paid jobs instead of losing jobs. How does all this relate to Ida-Virumaa and the subject we have discussed here today? Very clearly. In the midst of the current crisis, the government is actually telling the people of Ida-Virumaa that the government does not really care about the future of these people. Oil plants are currently closed elsewhere in the world because they have no perspective. But our government, rather than channeling this very large amount of money into a sector that would be more promising, let it be mentioned already, the renewable energy sector, be it the energy efficiency sector, be it a science or something, is burying more than 100 million euros in a sector that is dying, in a sector in which large banks in the world refuse to invest money. In principle, all more serious analytical centres with scientific background warn against this. The only thing the government will achieve with this decision is to pause the creation of really forward-looking new and modern jobs in Ida-Virumaa, delaying these decisions. My previous speaker spoke about the uncertainty that has been a problem in Ida-Virumaa for a long time, but as a result of this huge investment, this period of uncertainty will only be prolonged. Why do people in Ida-Viru County need to be crazed and fooled in this way? Unintelligible! Finally, indeed, today we also heard from the answer to the question, as if the oil plant were fundamentally beneficial to the environment. Why are they still saying that? Yes, the oil plant releases less pollution into the air in Estonia than making oil shale electricity, burning oil shale into electricity, but the amount of pollution that arises is still very high and does not account for the whole footprint. If the fire burns, and you try to erase it with a little thinner petrol than before, it won't change the outcome. The result is still the same. And therefore, there is no point in dealing with such self-deception and talking in this House about how investing in an oil factory is beneficial and acceptable to the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U103	Thank you. It seems that there is no further wish for negotiation. Would the Prime Minister like a word in closing? No, I don't. Ladies and gentlemen, The answer to the inquiry has been completed and this item has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U104	We're going to the last item on the agenda today, which is a free microphone. Everyone has the opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after a hammer hit. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U105	Thank you! For the first time in my life, I am in a free microphone because a really important issue was not addressed by the fair transition plan. That's one important thing. In my opinion, this is the first real hope to succeed because the money is already on the table, because when the money is on the table, the opportunities for cooperation will eventually be moved, and solutions will indeed be sought from such an angst-based East-Viru country, so that we do not have to look all the time at what the price of oil is and what the price of electricity is doing in Nord Pool Spote tomorrow to find out whether people can feed their families. Well, one region doesn't have to live like this in Estonia. And there's hope. Indeed, we will receive a total of 500 million of the money to invest in the development of Ida-Viru County. However, in fact, a very large part of this, which could also be considered with the aid of the State, is linked to the various guaranteed loan mechanisms that enable this investment to be made. Now, in this regard, we have a major concern: the Estonian state ministries do not know how to do such a thing. You don't have to, because no one's ever done it. Over the years, I have seen how for a long time no ministry wanted to take responsibility for making such a plan for getting out of the oil shale industry and allowing new development in Ida-Virumaa. Finally, it turned out that someone had to start doing something because the money was on the table and the state wanted to take advantage of the money. But the direction to which I think this situation is almost inextricably drifting, unless we wake up here at the last minute, is that the existing development plans, which have been made in different ministries, will simply be merged together and said that this is our plan for a fair transition. We're going to build another bicycle road around Toila and build other nice things that we've always wanted to do for our community, and otherwise we'd do it in a spirit of strength, and if we had to, we'd call it a fair transition. I have seen many times the emergence of a simple complement of measures. The ministries are asked to tell them that you are under the authority of your own ministry, where you could invest in Ida-Viru County, right? But it's not strategic management. We have been given a whole generation, over a long time, I think, the first and hopefully not the last chance to strategically guide the development of Ida-Viru County, actually think and look for the best experience in the world. In other countries, there are communities that have been expelled from the coal industry and have started to do something else, from situations that are very similar to ours somewhere else. We can do the same. We don't know how to do this ourselves. No one in this country can sit down alone and write this plan. It's not conceivable. This requires the involvement of the best expertise that exists in the world, and I know that some countries have also used it, the possibility of involving knowledge and experienced people from other countries, also from countries like us, where such things have been done. And the other thing is, of course, that any successful transition plan assumes that the community is involved in the.. the miners agree that this must be done, and their families agree, the local community will understand. And that's what they understand better than we do in Ida-Virumaa, that the oil shale industry is a very uncertain thing. They have seen their friends and acquaintances lose their jobs, how they shake every few years, whether or not there is work next month. In fact, it will take a much broader start-up and involvement of the local community in a way that has never actually been done in Estonia in this way. But the direction in which this plan is going at the moment, and also in the Prime Minister's answers to the previous item, was that good people work in ministries, take out their plans, the parish elders send out their letters where they want to build a new schoolhouse or kindergarten, and then it seems like you see, we can say that awesome stuff, right, we put so many millions into the development of Ida-Viru County. We will also, and I am not saying that these investments are not necessary, they are certainly needed in kindergartens, hospitals and everything else. But it is not, in fact, the exploitation of this moment that has now arisen in order to actually think, put together and negotiate with society a clear, large-scale project of social reorganisation or the transformation of the regional economy, which will last 5 to 10 years, and which, although the Prime Minister was undoubtedly trying to ridicule it, is clear as to when, since the year, oil shale will remain underground. Before that, it is very difficult to take practical steps. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-20_U106	Thank you. There is no further request for speaking within the free microphone. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's trial is over. Closure of the sitting at 5.47 p.m.
