ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U1	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu and Members of the Government! Let's start our three-day briefing. First, we'll do a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U2	40 members of the Riigikogu are present, 61 are absent. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Defence Jüri Luik and Minister of Rural Affairs Arvo Aller. As always, first the pre-registered questioners get the floor, then they get the opportunity to clarify the question and then there is another supplementary question from the floor. The length of the question is two minutes and the answer is three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U3	Today's first question is asked by Indrek Saar and answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U4	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister! Your government minister has just made comments not only in the Estonian media, but also in foreign media, which have caused a government crisis. In the light of these speeches, how do you feel if this minister of your government understands the meaning of the Constitution? The Constitution clearly states that it is prohibited and punishable to incite hatred, violence and discrimination between social strata. At the same time, he has justified himself with his convictions, but the Constitution says that convictions cannot excuse an offence. He has also taken the oath of office of the Government of the Republic, with which he has undertaken to serve the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the people of Estonia, the people of Estonia. What is your assessment of this? Does Mart Helme, in his own words, behave in accordance with the meaning of the Constitution? And should it be acceptable in society that a person acting like this is a minister of the Government of the Republic of Estonia, to whom, as we know, so far, there have been heightened demands in what he says and how he says?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U5	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! Honourable Question Time Monitors! Thank you for that question. Point one, I think no one has the right to incite violence in society. The Constitution applies to all of us, all of these sections of the Constitution apply to all of us. I think that this is, in general, a very serious problem when someone's sex, age, sexual orientation or religion, or on any other ground, is discriminated against or incited to violence. This is, in my opinion, a very resolute and fundamental position. Coming to your question now on the basis of a specific interview, then, as I said, the constitution is certainly supreme in this sense and must be based on it. You're asking me if Mart Helme has, in my opinion, instigated hatred, violence. I have, of course, spoken to the Minister for the Interior since then and said that for me this problem is exactly how I understood the interview. There was also my comment on this on Friday, after the interview that triggered this scandal or, today, you can say, this crisis. The Minister of the Interior has told me what he has said now, of course, publicly, that he has not driven anyone out of here, that he has been misunderstood. I have told the Minister of the Interior that this is a very serious concern for me. It is very good that he so thinks that no one should be driven away from here, that no one should be instigated hatred, that is the right way of thinking, and that is what I support. But in the context of this interview, I think he said words or sentences, answers that clearly gave a different feeling. And that's what I reacted to. So I say again: I think that any kind of what I say, divided rhetoric or minority attitudes, discriminatory or in some way inciting violence, of all kinds of minorities, must be removed in society, and we must all stand up for it. I must stand up for this, but surely you and all the other politicians, members of the government or members of the Riigikogu must stand up for it. Estonia must be.. and I really hope that Estonia is a society in which everyone is safe, secure and good, regardless of what its sexual orientation is or what its religious convictions are, whether it is a man or a woman, how old it is or what colour its skin is.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U6	Indrek Saar, a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U7	Thank you! I am pleased that you acknowledge, at least at this point, that the word has power and that the word has weight. We have also heard in recent days the opinion that, since this is not a specific matter, there is nothing wrong with it, it is only rhetoric. It is a great development in my opinion and in society very welcome that the members of the government understand the importance of words and that words can trigger very important processes in society and that this does not always require physical action. You said Mart Helme said he didn't mean it that way. But I recall that this is already many times when journalists and society understand differently, the vast majority of society and journalists understand differently. Perhaps it is still the fact that the Minister is not competent in his office, so he is unable to express himself adequately. I would remind you that when a minister in your previous government questioned the positions of the Estonian state regarding membership of NATO, he immediately resigned despite his subsequent explanations. What's the difference between that case and today's case? That would be an interesting explanation. On the other hand, do you think you have any responsibility for this whole thing as the government of the Republic, as the maker of this team? How do you intend to assume this responsibility and solve the problem that has arisen in society as a result of such statements?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U8	Thank you for this question. First of all, I will try to answer your various arguments. As I said, let's go through this and take it so that this interview with the Minister of the Interior has been interpreted as such and it has been understood that it was incitement to hatred. If this were to be the case that there would certainly not be any action, then this is a substanceless argument. I would emphasise once again: if this were to be the case, if we took it that way. Now forward, words have weight. Well, if words had no weight, it would hardly be the problem or the crisis that is now in the government coalition. Then we'd be here today with everyday issues before you, as Question Time always is. After all, he is quite a political subject, and that is understandable, because there is a political debate going on here in the Riigikogu Chamber, but perhaps we would talk more about the procedure for the 2021 budget and its first reading, maybe about the coronavir, perhaps about pension reform. So words certainly have a weight. All of this has made a major difference in society. At least what I consider to be my role now I am jumping to the last thought you said about my responsibility is, of course, a responsibility. The Prime Minister always has a responsibility, a very big responsibility. Politically, it is, I think, a responsibility. That's right. I'm ready to take that responsibility. And that's what I've been responsible for. Now it's the minister's jurisdiction. Exactly I do not understand your question in this sense, whether you mean the competence of the Minister in the broadest context in his field or what, but certainly we can look at the competence of the Minister from the perspective we want. If we look today at the activities of the Minister of the Interior in his field, I have no complaints against him in this sense. We see that this area is strengthening, that the priorities in this area are in place, that cooperation is being carried out. But obviously, your question is more broadly about the Minister's competence and the Minister's word about weight in society. You want to tie, I understand, the Mikhail Korb case and the Mart Helme case. They are certainly absolutely different cases; they are also things that have arisen at different times. As I have said many times then, Mikhail Korb took responsibility for himself and said that he would resign because then the government could move on. It was also at the beginning of a quite new government, so it was understandable that with the arrival of one new partner, all NATO-thematics and defence mathematics could have been a big question. In essence, of course, that was not the case. After all, Mikhail Korb also said that he had no problem with NATO. But at that moment, that moment was right, as was what he did, and I supported him. I'm really sorry I went over a lot now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U9	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U10	Thank you. Mr Ratas, I would also like to point out, after your speeches so far, that these were not just words, some empty words, but a comprehensive interview by your government minister on the leading European channel. There was only one topic, this issue of sexual minorities, which was very highlighted. This interview was really complete, and it was clearly said that we did not like gay people. We do not like the Ukrainians, we do not want strong European cooperation, and we think that sanctions against Russia are not working, and there was also admiration for Vladimir Putin. Now, as a member of the government, tell me how you feel about these matters. This issue of sexual minorities has already been adequately reflected in my mind, there is no doubt that there was intolerance. But I don't think that's the whole government's position. How do the rest of the government deal with the other topics covered in the interview?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U11	Thank you. I'm really ready to do, if you'd like, a detailed analysis of this interview. If that's what you want, you have to do it. First you said, when I was able to write down more or less everything, that Mart Helme has said that he does not like Ukrainians. No, that's not what I read out of that interview, really didn't count out. Now you are saying that he has said that sanctions are not working. I even took this briefing today in preparation for this interview again and watched the penalty part. Here is the journalist's question: "But do you think sanctions work? " His answer is: " I think it will work, even though it needs to be analysed here, in which sectors of the economy it is effective and in which areas Russia is already working to be independent from imports. " Well, when we talk about this specific answer, he answers: " I think it works. " I do not know whether Question Time must be the kind of place where such in-depth analysis of statements can be carried out; it is shaped by members of the Riigikogu, but, of course, if necessary, it must be done. Now on, you say that the Minister for the Interior does not support the European Union dimension. This idea of the European Union is written in the coalition agreement. I think it was the first chapter where we say we support the European Union, we support Estonia's membership of the European Union. If I also take the government's action for the last year and a half, I cannot read from anywhere that there would be such a confrontation between the European Union and some kind of a retreat or going away from the European Union. On the contrary, I think Estonia has always been a frontrunner. Yes, we have our positions, of course, and must have our positions, but we have been on a lot of topics today, let us say, the speakers. Let us, for example, be the same digital themes. Whether it's the same green mathematics, for which I was actually accused last year, that you see, Estonia does not jump into this boat immediately. But we really wanted to do some tests. So on a number of topics, I can see that on the contrary, we have dealt with all of this. So what I'm saying is, about the other issues you were talking about, I don't know, Russian-mindedness, or how you said it, I really don't read it out of here. I have studied this interview many times, even today, just before the briefing, and I don't think I can put all the sins on the Minister of the Interior on the basis of an interview. I certainly don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U12	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U13	Let us go to the next question, which Jürgen Ligi will put to him and will be answered by Minister of Defence Jüri Luik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U14	Thank you. Mr. Swan! I believe that your perception of Estonia's security policy is nuanced. Continuing with this previous reply, a member of the Ukrainian Supreme Raad has given an interview to the Estonian press, where he said that the Estonian Minister of the Interior wanted to like the Kremlin, and he very well justifies it. I too read from this interview a great criticism of the European Union and a very admiration for Vladimir Putin. I read the disparage of the Ukrainians there, and that is exactly how the Ukrainians have accepted it. I read out an enmity against migrant workers in general. Please say as your experienced security policy, where this presentation of the Estonian Minister of the Interior in the leading European channel Estonia will be located. Where does this introduction place Estonia geopolitically? How will this help to strengthen Estonia's security situation and allied relations?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U15	As far as this interview is concerned, let's just say it's perfectly clear that I wouldn't have given the interview, and I can't sign any of the statements that have been made. Why did I take the floor specifically on the issue of minorities? This was, in my opinion, the most radically contrary to the Estonian Constitution and Estonian laws. I think it is very important that the members of the government take the floor on these issues. Because the reason why we have been able to avoid, to some extent, in the international arena, that Mart Helme's comments have become such a prevalent direction for international life when we look at Estonia from outside is precisely that we need to react as quickly as possible. This is also the reason why I reacted on the same day to make it absolutely clear what the general political direction the government is pursuing, but which is also enshrined in the laws and constitutions. As far as specific comments are concerned, there is a great deal here that is a traditional policy of the EKRE and is linked to the participation of the EKRE in the Government of the Republic. For example, the same European Union theme, the fear that the European Commission will become some kind of European government or something. Also, all this apologies, I do not have this interview in my head, I am looking quickly at the role of Russia, the role of Putin, has unfortunately been an unambiguous policy of the EKRE for a very long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U16	Jürgen Ligi, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U17	Thank you, Mr. Swan, for that answer. I believe you described the national interests of Estonia quite well. But let's specify a little bit. If you say it is a traditional policy of the EKRE, I will, of course, ask what is the policy of this government and what are you doing in this government. As your colleague at the two ministries of security in the Riigikogu, I believe that you are very well aware of how Estonia has kept its thumbs in its hands all the time, so that no one can disturb the unity of Europe in its attitude to Russia, its attitude to its neighbours and its general security issues. One of the most sensitive issues is whether the words and economic interests of European politicians lead to the abandonment or weakening of Russia's sanctions and to the continuation of "business" in ordinary business terms. Tell me, did you not notice the place where the Estonian Minister of the Interior made his contribution to this weakening, introducing Estonia and saying that sanctions are not actually working, showing his sour feeling towards them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U18	Honestly, I can't figure it out that fast. If you're saying he said that, that's what he said. In any case, government policy is that sanctions work. Estonia has always supported the establishment and strengthening of sanctions in all fora. This is quite simply verifiable, and it exists in all the material relating to the Council on Foreign Affairs, etc. So this is definitely our policy. As far as working on sanctions is concerned, I think they have worked very well, because it has decisively narrowed down President Putin's space of action and has also clearly signalled President Putin that such behaviour as Putin does in international relations is absolutely unacceptable. The last good example is, of course, the sanctions concerning what happened to Navalny. In this sense, it is excellent that the European Union has succeeded in carrying out sanctions against Putin to punish Navalny.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U19	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U20	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Defense! I agree with you that we should not be entangled in the details of this interview. I fully understand that you have not memorized this interview, that is certainly not necessary. It is more necessary to know that this is not the first time that these issues are raised in a way that echoes internationally, either because of an international interview, as in this case, or through topics that cannot leave our partners and allies indifferent at all. For us, it is undoubtedly important that we work together with our allies in a common value zone, in a way that those who are supposed to protect us can understand unequivocally that they protect their own when they need to. This has been the basis of our foreign policy and security policy since you started working in this area in the early 1990s. Now the situation has changed quite seriously, and we have reached a situation where the internal political situation of one of our good neighbouring countries, I am thinking of Poland, has been described by the Ambassador of the United States in a way that could lead to future decisions on the withdrawal of the United States from the region. I would like to hear from you an opinion that Estonia should still be aware of today, in a situation where the members of the government allow for such speeches. How serious can such speeches have to do with ensuring our real security in cooperation with our allies?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U21	There is definitely a connection, there is no doubt about that. And, as you said, as far as this common value area is concerned, our mutual collective defence is based on mutual solidarity, and this in turn is based on shared values. If you read, for example, the NATO Washington Treaty, the preamble to this agreement is very interesting. This preamble says that I cannot quote it exactly, but the point is that what cooperation between countries is based on is democracy and individual liberty. In my opinion, the term individual liberty is of particular importance. Democracy, of course, is also very important. So for all such statements, we have to take into account that they are being noticed. Definitely embassies register them, and that is very regrettable. In this case, the interview itself has not received a wide range of sounds in the international media, once again it is possible from Google to check that it really is not, but it is probably justified by the fact that these words have a very strong influence on the media.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U22	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U23	Let's go to question 3. Asks Katri Raik and is answered by Minister of Rural Affairs Arvo Aller. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U24	Good President! Good minister! On 30 September, the Auditor General signed his audit of the economic measures to mitigate the crisis in the spread of COVID-19, the economic measures that were at the disposal of the Rural Development Foundation. The Chancellor of Justice sent you a letter yesterday. You probably haven't gotten to know it yet. The audit of the Auditor General also gives serious thought to whether the Rural Development Foundation has worked in the best way. The title of the letter from the Chancellor of Justice could be "Legal administrative procedure is not mere formality' , it is a quote from this letter. What is your position on the activities of the Rural Development Foundation? Have you been in contact with the heads of the Rural Development Foundation on these issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U25	Thank you. Dear Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you for your question. The organisation we are talking about is the Rural Promotion Foundation, for a long time. Indeed, the National Audit Office carried out an audit on the implementation of the measures of the Rural Development Foundation and it turned out that the measures have been very well implemented. I mean, there's a lot of interest, and there's a lot of wanters. We also went to the Riigikogu and to the committees in the spring to introduce this matter. There was a clear need for additional funding for rural areas, both in terms of working capital, investment, guarantees and land capital. The introduction and use of these measures shall be governed by the rules of procedure. The Rural Promotion Foundation complies with its statutes, decisions are taken by the Credit Committee and has been analysed very effectively on the basis of these activities. This shows that not all applicants who have asked have received a loan and have not received a guarantee. Not everyone's got it. Now the next question will certainly come about guarantees that why they have not been implemented. The guarantees are that by borrowing additional funds from banks it will be possible to take the guarantee resource from the Rural Promotion Foundation. Banks have met companies very well, they have been granted payment holidays, which means that it has alleviated their liquidity situation, they have been able to settle their affairs. This has been a very effective and good approach from banks. Now, as of now, has started again and has continued to use guarantees. Businesses have taken additional funding from banks, and the use of positive guarantees has increased. So I think that the spring forecasts that this crisis will come into business with a reference were correct, as we said here. And in this case, I am grateful to both the government and the Riigikogu, who, through the budget, allocated money to the Rural Promotion Foundation, 200 million in order to mitigate the effects of the crisis in rural areas in the form of turnover and investment loans.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U26	Katri Raik, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U27	Good minister, sorry! I'll remember the Rural Promotion Foundation forever now. I'm sorry again! Unfortunately, neither the Auditor General nor the Chancellor of Justice agree with you that this is the best administrative procedure, and there are very serious complaints against the rural development foundation. I'll ask you again. Have you examined these documents in detail and are you planning to initiate administrative supervision of the activities of the MES as provided by the Chancellor of Justice in the implementation of the relevant measures? The main complaint is that there has been no equal treatment of the applicants, the principles of fair competition have not been respected. We are back to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, this time to point 12. It is actually very serious, and tomorrow morning the Special Committee against Corruption will also discuss this issue in the Riigikogu. What is your point of view, though? Has everything gone the best way?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U28	Indeed, I have not yet seen the documents of the Chancellor of Justice; they will certainly be examined in the coming days. What about not being treated fairly? We have seen that applying for current loans is the most appropriate way of enabling the applicant to submit an application when the need arises. In this case, if I had done this in so-called call for proposals, injustice would have been even greater as spring applicants would have been in a privileged position compared to autumn. At present, we see, on an ongoing basis, monitoring and analysing and monitoring someone's application capacity and the content of the application, that when it comes to the actual application need, applicants take into account their needs. The Board and the Management Board of the MES are taking decisions on a rolling basis, with a very strong analysis of the background of all applicants in the decision-making process. But as far as the Chancellor of Justice is concerned, yes, indeed, I have not yet come to know it. I hope we can get to know it this afternoon.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U29	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U30	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Minister! Your last answer makes you wonder if you've really thought this process through. After all, you yourself admitted that the crisis in rural areas could come later when we started the corona, compared to other sectors, such as the tourism sector. But it would have been a very simple trick: to make different rounds and not to let all the money right on top of the market, literally. In the meantime, you have had to change the criteria, and that is what is already creating unequal opportunities for different businesses. But if I remember correctly, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas has said to the public such a thing that Mart Järvik has lost confidence, and as a result Mart Järvik had to leave the government. Today we know that Mart Järvik operates on the same foundation board. The allocation of 200 million, on the one hand, can be very nice, but its substantive distribution has received quite a lot of criticism. I don't know if you're aware that there's also a loan from companies involved in road construction. When I heard this, I don't have any factual confirmation, and I don't know if you know it, I've developed a number of associations. At the moment, while there is a clear crisis in agriculture in the dairy industry, prices are down, and pig meat prices are also down, one reason why you have not been able to protect transitional payments for farmers in the government is that the 200 million that were granted there is not enough money. Now, if it is used inefficiently, do you feel any blame for the fact that these transitional payments are not really enough for farmers?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U31	Thank you. In addition to Mart Järvik there are other people on the Board of the Rural Promotion Foundation, there are members from different interest groups and also from the Ministry. Mart Järvik will not decide anything in the Council alone. The Chairman of the Council is a very respected farmer. Now, who gets the loan? If you are built in a rural area, what can anyone possibly oppose that a rural road construction company can invest additional resources and move on? On road construction more: we cannot focus solely on the fact that the MES grants loans to agriculture. In the spring process, there was an important complaint as to why money goes to agriculture. If we pointed out in proportion how much money the Rural Promotion Foundation has so far brought to rural areas or how it has been through receiving the MES loan, then agriculture is only 30%. The rest of the funding and loans are from the food industry, forestry, fisheries, the whole bioeconomy, the service sector, including tourism and catering companies. If we look at the MES and focus only on agriculture, we're wrong. We see that there is, in fact, a wider bioeconomy, as well as an entire rural business. It is also very important that when we are talking about a market failure area, the Rural Development Foundation does not look at applicants on a bank-based basis, i.e. whether or not this tick is suitable. Going to the content, looking at the guarantees, looking at the company's activities, how the loan can be implemented in the best way possible. So, in this respect, the loans granted through the Rural Development Foundation and the application of COVID loans in the sector, I have received a lot of calls that this is a good measure and is a good opportunity. This will provide an opportunity to look to the future optimistically in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U32	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U33	The next question is in order number 4, it is presented by Marko Mihkelson and answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U34	Thank you. Prime Minister! I fully agree with you that words have weight. Of course, it is especially important that when words are followed by actions, words and actions are in harmony with one another. This will create trust, and it will also work in international relations. I agree with what you said to the ERR yesterday when you mentioned that people must enjoy themselves, people must be good, safe and sweet to live here in Estonia, regardless of their nationality, sexual orientation or color, etc. I believe and expect you to mean this not only in the Estonian context, but also in the context of other democratic countries, free countries. A few weeks ago, the government approved a foreign policy development plan, which states: "Estonia's interests are best protected through international cooperation based on values and rules. " Now, when we come to action, at the end of September, representatives of countries resident in Poland made a joint statement by representatives of more than 50 countries and international organisations, where they defended the rights of minorities, emphasising the importance and importance of universal human rights in a democratic world, including Poland. It was signed by our allies from the United States, Canada, farther away from Australia, India, New Zealand, as well as all Nordic and Baltic countries. The only country that did not sign a declaration that highlighted the importance of universal human rights was Estonia. I know that for the second year in a row, a member of your government, in this case the Foreign Minister, strongly recommends that our ambassadors not join such statements, both in Poland and elsewhere. I ask you, how do you see words and actions converge here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U35	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U36	Why does Estonia not join such statements?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U37	Thank you. First, I'll start with what you started with. Yes, I think that not only is it important for Estonia, but it is vital for good international relations, strong international cooperation, which we must build every hour. And I think that Estonia has done a very good job in this area over the last 29 years. I think it is quite appropriate to tell everyone who has done this work, our diplomats, our foreign representations, our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Riigikogu and the various configurations of the government, that this work has been good and correct and that this direction must continue, say, in terms of strengthening ties. In a large number of topics in foreign policy, Estonia has, in my opinion, done much more than its small size and carried much more for it. You mentioned values. Values are important to me, values are important to me. I understand that your claim is that where it has been said then that from a legal point of view, the participation of the Estonian state in parades of sexual minorities, for example, or the making of relevant declarations on behalf of the Estonian state, is not appropriate. I take it this is the core of what you said, isn't it? So let me get this straight. If I misunderstood, I'm sorry. What I want to say is that I believe that human rights, including minority rights, are protected in Estonia. I'm sure I can't say we're 100 percent okay and there's no problem anywhere. There are still problems in society and they are being dealt with. But I do not see that human rights or minority rights in Estonia are being suppressed in any way at the moment. After all, these have been my words in recent days, when this topic has become very topical in the Estonian media and, let's say, in discussions. So the government, which is certainly in office, stands for this in its actions and must certainly also stand in its words. It was also my attention to the Minister of the Interior's speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U38	Marko Mihkelson, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U39	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! Please answer the question I asked! Why has the Estonian Government ordered its ambassadors not to join such statements as we saw in Poland at the end of September? It's the second year in a row. So I understand that the words that concern Estonia are reading, but in international foreign policy activities, Estonia does not really follow the same principles. But another subject is important. As it is important for Estonia to defend democratic values, it is also very important to protect the democratic debate, the electoral system, to fight against influence, the disinformation that is increasingly used in open societies. As we can see from the latest news, it is now even suspected that information from the Estonian server has been sent to the electoral debates in the United States or to the electoral fight at right-wing extreme and guiding level. As we understand it, the FBI has begun an investigation into this matter. But my question is that, in Riga, the President of France, the President of Lithuania and the Prime Minister of Latvia also met at the end of September, who made a joint statement to defend democracy. There are three key messages: the democratic institutions must be protected, we must be protected from influence and we must also fight to protect our public democratic debate. This statement does not have the signature of Estonia, even though already in June the representative of the President of France proposed to the Estonian Government to join this declaration. Why didn't Estonia join? So two questions, I am waiting for an answer to the previous question, and also to that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U40	Thank you. In fact, I think that maintaining and building Estonia's foreign policy is not only the work of the coalition, but also the work of the opposition. I really think so. I understand you, Mr. Mihkelson. I think you have done this during your political career, you have built Estonia's foreign policy very strongly and you have done it well. But in today's state, you want to raise the French President's visit to Latvia and Lithuania again, don't you? Why didn't Estonia join it? Point one, we have said, essentially, that we have had absolutely different principles on certain issues. One has been very strongly involved in the freedom of the press. Estonia supports this, Estonia maintains this line. The latest international ratings that came up on this point continue to show Estonia in a very high and good position. The second has really been the question of platforms, where then the responsibility lies, whether it is located, say, the platform maker or the one who puts the information there. And there have been different directions. Point two is that the President of France visited Estonia three years ago when Estonia held the Presidency. I understand that it is his wish to visit all the countries of the European Union during the first term. He has already visited Estonia, and that is why he now visited Latvia and Lithuania. I and the President of France have dealt with this matter twice in recent weeks. I have asked if there is any sense or desire to polarise it in Estonia. He said it wasn't true, of course. He also confirmed very good relations between Estonia and France at his press conference, and that is, in my opinion, a great value. We see today that the French have not only been our important allies in air security, but also through eFP. We know the French are coming back here. As far as I am concerned, Estonia's participation in a very important foreign mission in Mali should now be on your tables, the mission of Barkhane, where, in fact, France, say, bears the backbone of this mission. When it comes to relations between Estonia and France, I very much hope that in the near future, there will also be another addition to relations between Estonia and France: signatures to strengthen cooperation in our cyber defence, digital, cultural and educational fields. At the moment, as far as I know, my visit to Paris, France is being prepared. I hope this will happen as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U41	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! My question comes, you might say, from the field. This concerns travel restrictions. A little more than a month ago, during a group visit, we visited a farmer in Central Estonia. He had a question. Since the beginning of September, people coming from a foreign country have been created who are coming from the country of risk by the rate of infection that you are coming to Estonia, taking a test. In the case of Estonians, the same way you wait for the result if it is negative, then within seven days you can work, you should avoid excessive contact, after seven days you will take a new test if it is negative, you can continue to live your life. Now, both as a result of his message and as a result of examining the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I will see that people coming from third countries, when they come to work or study, regardless of what is the rate of infection in a particular country, have limits on how to transport them and provide them with accommodation, but in any case they must be 14 days in self-insulation. After all, these people often work in the agricultural sector, where the number of contacts is probably many times smaller than the number of people in the city centre who have this seven-day distinction. Can you please explain why we have such a speciality? This, in fact, again hinders the recruitment of labour, which also raises costs for businesses, in the same way for educational institutions. Why is such an additional restriction necessary? Is that a re-examination? Or what's the logic back there?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U43	Thank you for this question. First of all, I'm gonna start with what you said, that if I come from abroad and take this first test, I can go to work and if I do a new test in seven days' time, then the requirement for self-insulation is gone. The point of this thing has actually been a little different. The point has been that if I want to shorten my self-insulation period, I really only go to work if the employer says that it is inevitable and there is no other option. We certainly have a lot of jobs where home offices cannot be used, where meetings cannot be held online, online and really need to be on the ground. A certain trust mechanism has been set up for this purpose. But the general principle really is that it is two weeks for self-isolation to come from abroad. In the last few weeks, we have discussed at government level whether the period of self-insulation could be shortened to those who come from abroad to Estonia, but also to those who have their close contacts in Estonia. We see that there are at least three periods of self-insulation in the European Union: 14 days, 10 days and seven days. In relation to this ten days, the Health Board and the Scientific Advisory Board have also given their input. I believe that when we do, we will definitely come back to the length of this period of self-insulation, either tomorrow or next week. Of course, we need to look at it as a whole. But the general principle, Mr Võrguship, has actually been this: everything must be done to keep Estonia's infection as low as possible and, on the other hand, to make sure that it does as little as possible damage to the economy. We try to keep this balance, and we do it every day. For those who come to the agricultural sector from third countries, we have already said a specific rule in the summer, that we also had a serious debate here in the Riigikogu Hall, and I have also said that yes, this could have been done faster, but the decision was made, this decision was passed and specific regulation is in the way. In the agricultural sector, work can certainly be planned for two weeks. When it comes to bringing people from third countries who work here, for example, in agriculture or in some other sector, it really has to be taken into account that two weeks of self-insulation are currently in place. And I have to say that, on the one hand, the very responsible behaviour of our own people, on the other hand, the serious work done by the Health Board and also by the Police and Border Guard Board, as well as, in my opinion, these very small and as far as possible local restrictions have actually given it, of course, let us not cheer up before the evening, here we must not get cocky that Estonia is now in a rather satisfactory or even good position if we look at the whole context of the European Union. If we look at ECDC data, then actually our figure is still one of the lowest if not the lowest. Therefore, I believe that certain rules must also be maintained in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U44	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U45	Question No 5 is asked by Ivari Padar and answered by Minister for Rural Affairs Arvo Aller. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U46	Thank you. Mr. Minister! My question is driven by the debate we had in this Chamber a few days ago, which concerned the 2021 budget. I am not asking in this key whether there are few or many agricultural subsidies or how they come. But there was a principled contradiction in this hall. Colleagues asked about possible compensations for strawberry growers this year. In reply, even twice from the Minister for Finance, the fact that any solution on subsidies comes out of the Ministry of Rural Affairs is a clear no. And now I'm thinking about you because you're being left in such a very bad position. Why are you doing a lot of work at the Ministry of Rural Affairs, collecting data, trying to calculate the extent of damage, if this job already has a political position in advance? The insult that one sector has spoken in the summer has been so great that the Minister of Finance's answer is no. How do you comment, and how can you approach this situation? What do you say to the producers about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U47	Thank you for your question. The topic of support for strawberry growers rose in the spring of this year before the strawberries had been harvested at all. Support is one thing. As regards the fact that strawberry growers do not receive any aid at all, they are, in fact, just as applicants for agricultural payments as all area-related applicants. They also have a separate area-based payment, a single area-based payment in the form of greening, and also support for strawberries and fruit cultivation in the context of environmentally friendly gardening. Next, what's for sure? After all, we can begin to compensate when there is damage. The damage means that turnover has fallen. If you claim that in the spring someone spoke out loud through the press, it is important to me that we always take the floor on topics where we can also justify things. But in the form of a spring forecast to plan prey, whatever, 20 tons per hectare, 12 tons per hectare, is part of it. I myself have been a farmer and sometimes planned cereals from 6 tonnes per hectare, but after receiving 1000 kilograms, i.e. one tonne. So the summaries can always be made in the autumn. That's why we've been sitting with strawberry growers several times, with the Estonian Agricultural Chamber of Commerce, the Estonian Farmers' Confederation, the Estonian Gardening Union and the Estonian Strawberry Farmers' Association. In July, after the first meeting, we started collecting data to find out what the real, real picture was. How much damage have you suffered? How much has the return on sales fallen? How much of this has to do with the weather? That's the basis for the calculation. We got the data together by autumn. Compared to the tax office's data on sales revenue and turnover in the third quarter, or the rise in turnover, of 200 strawberry growers, 98 have declared turnover in these cases, the turnover in the first three quarters of 2020 has increased by 0.5%. Total turnover in the third quarter has fallen by 0.5%. We have come to the conclusion that we can take stock in the autumn. And for now, the summary is going to be zero.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U48	Ivari Padar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U49	The second issue concerning the budget. Clearly, tax incentives are one way of supporting the agricultural sector. We've got a bill up there right now, it's a law amending the Income Tax Act. In spring, we received a nicely introduced income tax exemption of EUR 5 000 for forest-owners self-employed persons and companies as well as for natural persons. But there's an old thing. In other words, self-employed farmers were left with an old currency of EEK 45000, which in this case is EUR 2870 without raising it in parallel. We have proposed that the income tax exemption for farmers should rise to EUR 5 000 at the same level as foresters. How far is this subject now? Has the state budget for next year taken into account the enforcement of this amendment to the law, or is it not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U50	Thank you. Of course, with regard to tax differences, your proposal was to bring the agricultural sector to the same level as the forestry sector, the impact analysis of this change will be carried out at the Ministry of Finance, how many changes in the state budget may be made. At the same time, in the Government of the Republic, we have now adopted the main points of the strategy on the farm plate, where, as an option, we also provide for differences in value added tax (VAT) on agricultural foodstuffs and a different taxation, including on organic foodstuffs, on organic production. This special nature of taxation requires work to be done and analysed in view of this future also in the area of vegetables. The example of Latvia does exist. We want to make sure that the impact of this tax differentiation on agricultural products does not disappear in the area of traders, end-user dealers, but also reaches the original producer, be it a producer of vegetable, horticultural or organic products. But with this tax differentiation in next year's budget, as has been said, the analysis departments of the Ministry of Finance are working and calculating how much its impact on the state budget may be.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U51	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Actually, I'd like to yell, "Hello! " We have criticised the government's actions here because it was unreasonable to prevent additional labour from moving to Estonia, especially to agriculture. The experts at the University of Life Sciences have proven how much the strawberry growers have suffered because they could not use this labour during the most bitter ripening of berries in two weeks. The soldiers and the unemployed didn't make it to the fields promised by the Minister for Rural Affairs, maybe that's just the plan. And you're going to say with a perfectly calm heart today that the loss of strawberry growers is zero. At the same time, you are ignoring the way in which strawberry fields are built and the way in which strawberry fields have increased since last year, which maybe not have existed in the previous year. But the harvest wasn't made up. At the same time, we see that the state has provided loans to companies whose turnover has been non-existent last year or a project has just been created. I mean, they've been funded by the MES. Please tell me what's going on in your head if you use such expressions! We understood that the Minister of Finance has already told us at the beginning of this week that the Minister of Rural Affairs can say what he wants, but we will not allocate this money. I'm actually really sorry to hear that. Now I'm gonna ask you two questions. Are you seriously thinking that the loss of the strawberry growers' harvest based on government decisions is zero? And two: please tell me who in the government specifically opposed the payment of transitional allowances, as the Minister of Finance has told us here in the remote. Who of your coalition partners did not support your proposal for transitional support?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U53	Thank you. I have not argued that there has been no loss of catch. I never said there was no loss of catch. The loss of harvest is also proven by a study carried out by the University of Life Sciences in 2018, which describes food losses in agriculture and that 20% loss occurs in strawberry harvesting. From this study, it can still be seen that in 2018, strawberry growers in the survey have also stated that there is a labour force problem. So if we are to say that the problem of labour is only a matter of concern this year, it is not right, because this problem was already recognised in 2018 already when it was fully aware of it. As far as financing through the MES is concerned, if you have guarantees and guarantees to obtain the loan, the financing of the MES will be granted. So, in the presence of guarantees and in the analysis of the business plan, the possibility has been found to finance companies that invest in the future. As for the movement of labour, we had an emergency situation. And when the state came out of the emergency situation, it also made such a decision that at the beginning of July the labour force in Estonia would be allowed from third countries. As a result, labour was also brought to agriculture, and in July third-country workers came here, who, as has been said, have been and must have been quarantined. So they, I believe, work very conscientiously in the companies they came to. Coalition partners. Indeed, transitional support has been a matter of additional budgets every year, i.e. money is asked for in the context of the national budget strategy. As this will be an opportunity to do so in negotiations with the European Union, the possibility of paying transitional support in 2021 was created in the spring of this year. During the state budget process, the Ministry of Rural Affairs also applied for transitional payments to farmers. Now, who's named? We have three partners in the coalition. The three of them decided that this year's priorities were defence, health, pensions and internal security. Of course, how many of these requests were discussed or discussed is the next issue, but at the moment there was an opportunity to ask for transitional grants from next year's state budget as an additional request.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U54	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U55	The next question is number 6, presented by Johannes Kert and answered by Minister of Defence Jüri Luik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Estonian Minister of Defence Jüri Luik! It was very sympathetic to listen to your approach when you answered Jürgen Ligi and Marko Mihkelson's questions about security policy at global strategic level. I would now move down to a strategic question for Estonia concerning the Estonian Sea. And I note that in June of this year, the Working Group of the State Chancellery prepared a report on the Marine Resource Working Group. The report presents three possible options for a country to carry out its tasks at sea. It has been described, in my opinion, in a highly competent, comprehensive way and can be called a highly professional job. Option 3 was assessed as optimal. Why is today's reality that the report has been ignored and the situation is cemented or developed in an area that is not described in the report? The Ministry of Defence, for example, buys the navy for the extra money that was applied for, mines. The Minister of the Interior claims that a ship with mine installations will be built on the border guard. Which model do we follow or what model do we copy if we do not take into account the report we have prepared?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U57	Thank you. This report, prepared under the leadership of the ICC and Martin Hurda, is extremely constructive. This is a report that systematises thinking on maritime and coastal defence issues and, as you say, offers a whole range of different options. The most advantageous and sensible option for a small country would, of course, be to merge fleets. This has been tried to be done by the Minister of Defence over the years, which has been tried since the beginning of the nineties when the first ships came to us. This has never been done. We can say that there are institutional obstacles and so on. Often, the obstacle is that ships still have different functions. This has not been done, nor has it been done now. Now, which we support or recommend in view of this report, it is that we bring together the exchange of information, monitoring, possibly partly the management, so that we have common means of communication, in short, so that the entire management and coordination system is united, even if the ships belong to different institutions. This seems to be the easiest function to perform at the moment. You yourself have been Commander of the Defence Forces, remember from the past that the issue of connecting the fleets has really been on the table the whole time. It's never worked.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U58	Johannes Kert, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U59	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Yeah, I know, I'm aware it hasn't worked. But there has never been a vision as precise and well described as it is now. Point two is that... Okay. I ask: who is specifically responsible for maritime defence in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U60	When we talk about naval defence in military terms, of course the Ministry of Defence, the Defence Forces, specifically the Navy, the Commander of the Navy. Now, of course, the question is what resources the Defence Forces have at their disposal. The fact is, when we talk about maritime surveillance, patrolling, the vast majority of these resources are actually at the disposal of the Ministry of the Interior. There are many reasons for this. One reason is that, unlike the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior has direct access to European Union money and a great deal of so-called civil policy instruments can be bought with the support of our European allies. This has also been done and will be done in the future. And it seems to us that the main thing is to concentrate all these resources under different ministries in a single fist, a unified coordination system. Under no circumstances do I think that the DHS ships should be fitted with elements that are classic military defence tools. This is certainly not something we should do; it is also against international law. I think that's what we have to consider. As far as mine launching is concerned, indeed, in a crisis situation, there are different options if there is to be a rapid discharge. I am not going to go into the details here, but again, you know that in this case all the means at our disposal will be used.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U61	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U62	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Defense! If you think about this subject like loudly before I ask, I think one reason why we have had non-priority marine defence and coastal defence is simply that it is clearly resource-intensive. That's one. Secondly, surely the development of our Defence Forces has been land defence-centred. There are historical, geographical and other reasons for this. In a modern context, given that we do not, after all, operate as a single country for the protection of our coastal waters, but we must also take into account cooperation with our allies, this is also a very important element that must be borne in mind. But my question is this: if we are now planning investments in marine defence, please tell me how much we are working with Latvia and Lithuania at the same time. After all, we operate in a common "geographical space" and are allies in NATO. And how much do we take into account these standards, which also require comprehensive cooperation with our NATO allies, who have significantly higher naval or naval capabilities?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U63	Thank you. You are absolutely right that, as far as protection is concerned and, in fact, all other aspects of protection are concerned, we are trying to work as actively as possible with our allies, especially the NATO allies. As regards cooperation with Latvia, but also with Lithuania, we currently have very close consultations with Latvia, in particular, with regard to the development of coastal defence. And it is known that Latvia is also interested in a series of steps that are quite similar to our respective steps. I very much hope that in this area we will find a way for such a joint defence project, because it is in the interests of both countries. It is also a geographically very logical step. And, of course, all that we are getting here is not only about some hypothetical firing devices, but also about communication devices and radars, it must all be compatible with what the Baltic States and other NATO countries are doing. So I hope that we can include coastal defence projects in the list of projects that have been successful in cooperation with the Baltic States.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U64	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U65	Next, Jevgeni Ossinovsky asks and is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Regrettably, the equal rights of all people are not guaranteed in Estonia. I mean, of course, same-sex families. Although the Cohabitation Act has been passed, as we know, for various political reasons it has not been possible to implement it in the Riigikogu, so that these equal opportunities can be actually realised by families. In part, the Supreme Court has solved some questions, for example, concerning the issue of residence permits for foreign partners, but some very important practical issues still hang in a certain legal vacuum. I think that the issue of the dignity of both the government and the Riigikogu as a whole would be to resolve this matter. It was not possible to do so in the previous Parliament, if the Social Democrats were also part of the government, this is unlikely to happen today. And that's unfortunate. At the same time, in the last two years, we have seen the attempt by certain parties to actually do the opposite. Instead of making an effort to guarantee equal rights, there have been attempts to right these rights. For example, one of your coalition partners has threatened to deprive the LGBT Society of money, has been politically and physically harassing them, [disrupting] their meetings. Another coalition partner has offered to limit the rights of same-sex families in the context of the Name Act. My question, therefore, is: as Prime Minister, do you support your coalition partners' proposals to restrict the rights of people of the same sex? Do your government have any ideas on how it would be practically possible to ensure a more equal treatment of same-sex families in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U67	Thank you very much, Mr Ossinovski, for this question. Yes, you are absolutely right: if we are talking about the next step of the Cohabitation Act, i.e. the implementing acts, this has not been agreed in this Riigikogu since the adoption of the Cohabitation Act, no matter who has been in opposition and who has been in the coalition. If you come to this cohabitation law for a moment, there are differences of opinion in the coalition today. It's no secret. We have actually declared this in the coalition agreement that coalition parties do not have a common position on the repeal or implementation of the cohabitation law. I think I can even say this today that, in this coalition, it has been the Centre Party that opposes the repeal of the Cohabitation Act and is its guarantor so that it is not revoked. But, of course, taking it together, it is not the government's decision, but it is the Riigikogu's decision whether these votes exist or those votes do not exist. My own position is that when we talk about living together, people live with the people they love, with whom they're happy to be, with whom they're safe, with whom they're happy to be. That's the way it should be in society, and I don't think it's our place to arrange it. Now you say you're talking about equal rights. First of all, I also said earlier here that when we talk about human rights in the broadest sense, they are certainly guaranteed in Estonia, they are available to all people. Does anyone want to start reducing any rights? My answer is that, in terms of human rights, I do not want to, and that is not the right thing to do. If the question is whether we could somehow reach the point today in order to move forward with, for example, same-sex marriage, then it is precisely the same question of implementing the cohabitation law and the question of moving forward from here. I think that there is really no political consensus for this, regardless of who is in the coalition or opposition today. This is the reality of today's Riigikogu. And now that you're saying that they want to take money from someone or not to take it away from them, these are very marginal, very small amounts in the state budget, and this is, in fact, the responsibility of this ministry. I don't know that somebody, some union, is taking money completely away. But I guess that wasn't your argument.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U68	Evgeny Ossinovski, a specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U69	Yes, indeed, that was not my argument either. It wasn't just a monetary policy issue to threaten a particular association, the LGBT Society, in this way. It was not attacked because money needed to be saved, but because it was attacked for ideological reasons in order to demonstrate its attitude towards sexual minorities. This attitude has indeed been beautifully consistent with the political party of the Minister of the Interior, and it is right to do so, which does not make it any less disgusting. My second line concerns this planned referendum. Indeed, at first you could think about it and hide it behind such a beautiful democratic ideal that it is an important issue for many people, and on important issues where society's opinions differ, you can ask people for their opinion. And the way people decide, that's it. But, in fact, it was predictable that one of the parties that has stood most for it, as your Prime Minister, has also said yourself that you do not really consider it necessary to fix the concept of marriage in the Constitution, you think that family law is a sufficient place to do so, that this one party actually uses it to humiliate and insult one group of society. This has been said by Martin Helme in his debate with Urmas Viilma that the aim is to have a clear mandate for the annulment of the Cohabitation Act. That would be righting. Fortunately, there is currently no majority in the Riigikogu, including thanks to you. That's what Mart Helme said in his last interview, which has been discussed a lot. And it is clear that this process becomes one of the homophobic things that tear Estonian society apart. I think in this situation a politician has a moral obligation to do so if he has the chance to prevent such a thing. Honestly, I'm not asking you a question. I wish you the strength to fulfil this moral obligation, because I think that the trace that you, as Prime Minister, will leave in Estonia's history will also depend on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U70	Good Evgeny! First of all, thank you, and quite sincerely. The fact that the political parties elected by the Estonian people in the broadest sense in the Riigikogu have different opinions on this issue is true, and I do not think that it can be blamed to anyone. There is nothing to complain about when someone says that we have to implement the law on partnership, or when someone says that we have to abolish the law on partnership. This political debate is completely competent and must be held here in the Riigikogu, because it is the Riigikogu that adopts or repeals the laws. Now, I really think the problem point is what comes out of your line or question: whether this debate is held civilly, it is held in moderation, nobody goes, how to say, split, blame, don't turn the winch. If we turn this debate over, there is a real danger that it could have very sad consequences in society at large, even in the streets. It is normal for a democratic society to have demonstrations, to have opinions passed, to have pizzas, and to have no objection to that. It is important that all of this is peaceful, but it is also important that no one is discriminated against in constitutional terms, not to mention some kind of homophobia. But to discuss the issues of how the family model is seen in Estonia, how marriages are seen in Estonia, who can get married and who can't get married, I think these debates are necessary, these debates must be held. And just as I answered your first question, I don't think it's right today for us to turn back the law of partnership. I don't think it has to be done, it doesn't have to be done. But there are certainly different opinions in this regard, as I said. Yes, I also agree that it is a referendum first. The Centre Party has perhaps been one of the first, I think, even the first party that has actually very strongly supported referendums. I remember coming to this Riigikogu in 2007, then it was the Centre Party that actually initiated the amendment to the Constitution. At the time, I think there was a requirement for 25,000 signatures. I am not against referendums. No, it's not, and I think it's right. But once again, it has to be respectful of both sides, not discriminatoryly, not to mention any phobias. So thank you for the good idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U71	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U72	Prime Minister! We will also come back to the international side, under the subject of minority rights, and to the questions I put on my question and to which I tried to get answers from you. Unfortunately, we didn't get them, but let's try it again. It is quite obvious that the protection of minority rights is part of universal human rights. As you well know, human rights are not an ideology; they must not be dependent on election results. Some members of your government say that elections have consequences, and those consequences should certainly not affect our view of universal human rights. Estonia is currently a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council. In the course of this campaign, our most important messages to all countries were not only to democratic countries, but also to other countries where we made our campaign in support of our support, related to the so-called competence and persistence of international law, to the persistence of a rule-based world order, but also to the fact that we appreciate, respect and defend universal human rights. Now I come back to my question, which I asked twice, but I did not hear your answer. The question is this: why has the current government, led by you, strongly advised the Estonian ambassadors in different countries, including Poland, not to join the statements in which there is unambiguous support for universal human rights, just as this second year in a row took place in Warsaw at the end of September this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U73	Thank you very much, Marko Mihkelson. First of all, what you are saying is that the protection of minorities, universal human rights, I say honestly, is an extremely important and fundamental issue for me. If we look at the birth of today's coalition, we have actually written very clearly what is important to this coalition and how we deal with these principles. We have said that the Constitution and human rights are an important and fundamental basis. I also believe that no member of the government should ever use public authority to persecute a group of society, not to mention the persecution of minorities. This is actually said when we look at the Government of the Republic Act § 10. When the Ministers of the Government of the Republic take office here before you, they will take an oath and this oath is clearly linked to the responsibility to the Republic of Estonia and their conscience when taking office. And, of course, there is a promise to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. But in my opinion, it is also important that the end is that I promise to devote my strength to the well-being and future of the Estonian people. We have also written these principles into our coalition agreement. Now, coming to the fact that you are saying that for two years in a row Estonia has already made such recommendations, I will stick to my answer, which I have said earlier, and also here in Question Time. You say I haven't answered that. Point one, there are certainly no problems with human rights and the persecution of minorities in Estonia. And if there are some examples, of course, they must always be responded to. Estonian foreign policy is essentially coordinated and organised in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That's how it has been, and that's how it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U74	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U75	Next question, No 8, author: Maris Lauri and answerer: Defence Minister Jüri Luik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U76	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. My questions concern such'soft' values in defence policy. First of all, the question is that we rely very much on our allies. And in the case of these allied relations, apart from Estonia participating in military operations and defence operations with its people, it is certainly important to cooperate with one another and that Estonia is "owned" by the people and governments of these allied countries. For this reason, I think we have all made a great deal of effort, both at personal levels, in economic directions and elsewhere. For me, there have been two weak spots lately, where I see a going back. Firstly, the question of saying that people coming from some countries or regions are bad and wrong. This may make our missions abroad more difficult. And the second question is certainly that the shifts in values or our fundamental positions, for example towards Russia or Ukraine, as expressed by the Minister for the Interior, can cause confusion in our partners. Can you disprove my fears, or are there really any risks in the areas I referred to?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U77	Thank you. Well, first of all, you have a hundred percent right that Estonian defence is based on cooperation with our allies in addition to independent national defence. We're talking about military cooperation, so we're working together on the strongest emotional level. What is extremely important here is that we share common values with our allies. I believe, I'm sure our allies will look at our actions as a whole. They look at the level of development of democracy in our country, at the work of the government, at the work of Parliament, at the fact that we are with them on missions abroad. One or the other absolutely inappropriate comments by the Minister of the Interior will not break this cooperation, of which I am absolutely certain.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U78	Maris Lauri, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U79	Thank you. Thank you for your assurance. I'll come closer to home. Estonian national defence is also based on broad-based national defence, which means involving all our citizens in very different ways in the preservation and protection of our country. Now, different forms of hate speech, various forms of hatred, labelling can create uncertainty and unwillingness for one group of people to commit to their country, especially when they come from government or from people in very high positions. And the other thing is that this violence can also extend to the "municipal" level. I certainly do not want to associate existing examples, but we know that there have been a lot more violent deaths this year than there have been in previous years. It may not, but it may be a sign that people are more nervous and are taking a wrong turn. Have you noticed an increase in tensions in so-called troops, the Estonian Defence Forces, problems at staff level, or have you sensed that people no longer want to contribute so eagerly to Estonia's defence capabilities in a broad sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U80	I haven't noticed that. But, of course, in principle, you are right that all Estonians, all Estonian citizens, the residents of Estonia must feel secure in Estonia. It also guarantees a uniform and strong defence. I recall that, first of all, we have a reserve army, an army based on a broad civil society. Secondly, it is very important that we have a Defence League that is entirely voluntary. So in this sense, our signals to our society are also extremely important in ensuring the strength of national defence or the determination of national defence. You're absolutely right about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U81	George Luik. I'm sorry! Jüri Luik answers, but Jürgen Ligi asks. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U82	Thank you. Mr. Swan! It is one thing to say that the words of a member of the government do not break our allies. Another thing is to talk about whether words and, as you said, the constant policy of the government community strengthens or weakens allies. You really didn't want to talk about it, but I'm still going to ask you the question before that. What is Estonia's position on the basis of what a member of the government said about the attitude towards the European Union, Ukrainians, sexual minorities, foreign policy, anti-Russian sanctions and Putin? He was very admiring in those words for Putin, which is unusual for members of the government. He criticised you for not having this text, but he criticised the effectiveness of anti-Russian sanctions, which is, in fact, unprecedented from the point of view of Estonia's interests. And he actually demonized one nation, just as he's being demolished in the Kremlin, that the Ukrainians are taking away the Russians' work and stuff. These claims were all in the interview. From this whole point of view, where does Estonia belong geopolitically? Do the Western Allies feel more or less that they protect their own?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U83	Thank you. Let's just say I get a hundred percent of what we're talking about. However, I would not place Estonia anywhere now if it had been so far. But this interview was inappropriate, completely inappropriate! I agree with your views. One thing I remember now was whether or not Russia is actually threatening us. I think it is very important to understand that, although Russia may not threaten us with a military invasion every day, it is certainly a military threat to us. We have no information at our disposal that you could say that he is somehow on this list of threats, let's say, unlikely. All such assessments are inappropriate. And I'm really sorry the Minister of the Interior gave this interview. But I repeat the answer I gave to Mrs Lauri that this interview and her previous interview will not change Estonia's overall international position. But there is no doubt that they are bad for the image of Estonia. There is no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U84	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U85	Next thing you know, Riina's gonna ask for Sikku, and she's gonna be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U86	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! For several weeks now, I am asking about governance, because in the case of governance there are very simple fundamental aspects that must be borne in mind, it will be easier for everyone. One example is the transparency of decision-making or decision-making processes so that decisions are legitimate. Many questions have been asked in this Chamber today about the decision-making of the distribution of funds at the Rural Promotion Foundation. But public administration is changing, evolving. And these latest changes, for example, also concern experimentation or experimentation in order to understand whether a solution is working in one country or another or in the environment. For example, we have all heard of a civil salary experiment. Similarly, if Estonia wants to move more towards direct democracy and ask for the opinion of the people on certain issues in a referendum, it can undoubtedly do so. The question now is whether it is right to start experimenting on minority rights. On the one hand, this constitution does not allow, and on the other, it seems like a very dangerous experiment. The secular state has so far relied on a clear separation between public and private spheres. The secular state does not say anything about my religion or about the religious services I want to carry out, for example, does not say how I have to organise my family life. Do you, Jüri, understand the difference between asking the people about whether Estonia should join the European Union or how to organise its family life? What is the difference between these two questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U87	Thank you for that question. First of all, I come to the beginning of this question, where you mentioned civil wages, and I do not know what principle you meant, how to increase people's security and social security in society during this crisis. What Estonia has done is, above all, the budget on your table for next year, in order to give the people of Estonia as much confidence as possible during this difficult economic and health crisis during this crisis. For older people, we have anticipated and proposed to you, honourable Riigikogu, an extraordinary increase in pensions. We have foreseen confidence in R &amp; D to reach 1%, which is certainly very much forward-looking. I also consider it important that we move forward very clearly with defence investments and that we are also doing a development leap here. Now, when you ask about family life, as I have already answered one of your questions, I think that what people do in their homes, how they live there is a matter for people and that they themselves must organise it. I think it is important that people live safely, live in confidence, live happily, happily, and in a loving society and in a loving family. When I come to the referendum, I think, and I have said this earlier, that the referendum has been such a Central Party, I cannot say that the flagship, but it has been a very important principle in order to bring the referendum, the possibility of a popular initiative into the Constitution. Over ten years ago, a number of drafts have come from us: about 25,000 people. However, when it comes to this referendum, I understand what you mean, today's coalition agreement has agreed to hold a referendum on whether the Constitution should fix that marriage is only between a man and a woman. I think, first of all, that I have also said it out loud, that today it is fixed in the family law and that it is not my desire to amend this family law in one direction or another at the moment, and to bring this rule now to the level of the Constitution. For this purpose, the Riigikogu has its own regulation and, if such a referendum is to be conducted, at least 61 votes in favour are needed. I do not think that this opportunity actually exists in the Riigikogu today. So if the question is whether we will change anything with this referendum, then we do not really want to change the family law, it will remain the same. But we are asking this question about marriage, not raising it to the constitutional level. So, in this whole political crisis, where we are at least in the sense of coalition, this is also one of the issues that we have actually discussed yesterday and today and I believe we will continue to discuss.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U88	Marko Mihkelson, please! Oh, I'm sorry! Before I do, I will give the floor to Mrs Sikkut as a point of detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U89	Thank you. Let me get this straight. It doesn't matter whether you ask people whether Estonia is joining the European Union or how to organise family life. Putting private issues into a referendum as a test for the development of direct democracy is, in my opinion, a very risky activity, which could be better considered. I understand from your answer that you are still planning to do this so that in some form you should ask people about marriage. Extremely regrettable! But the second issue that has sounded very much in this Chamber today is an interview given by the Minister of the Interior, Deutsche Welle. Yes, we read all the executive editions of the Constitution, some try to understand the Scriptures, they are interpreted both ways. In my opinion, there is no point in focusing on endings, words or specific sentences in the interview with the Minister of the Interior. This whole interview is extremely stupid for a member of the government, contrary to Estonia's official positions in both foreign and security policy, giving conflicting signals, is inappropriate. In fact, there is no point in doing such cultural theory or text analysis here on this interview. However, the statement that has not been asked about here and which surprised me is that Mart Helme confirmed in his interview that he is not against the Internet. This is, of course, good to know, because if the digital state in the Estonian government were a minister who was also against the Internet, I do not know whether we would survive it. In a situation like this, when the minister has given a completely inappropriate interview, it doesn't make sense to analyze it in detail, how do you see that the government can still continue with him?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U90	Thank you. First of all, do you want to ask about Estonia's accession to the European Union or ask questions about the family or very personal questions about whether there is a difference? Yes, of course there is a difference. One was our very fundamental course, which was taken in the early and mid 1990s. It was a strong integration with international associations, it was a strong integration, or, let's say, creating this opportunity at the time with the European Union and NATO, and I think it was a hundred percent the right way. Today, we can say that this has been the most economically successful period for Estonia than we have been part of the European Union, but I think also NATO, which has given security in every sense. So this has been the right direction, the right decision, and thank you to all the people of Estonia, including those who prepared it at the time. Now, what you are saying is that you are very sorry if there is a referendum. Once again, this is certainly part of this crisis. I also answered Mr Ossinovski's question that I think it is very important in this debate to do everything in order that the debate is substantive, so that it is not discriminatory, so that it does not incite hatred. And we will do everything we can to ensure that these debates are appropriate for a democratic society. I think it's very important. In any case, it is important that we do not use any homophobic remarks, sayings, words in this debate. It's important. If you're talking about this interview, some of your colleagues have been willing to ask here today in a timely manner. And you can't blame them. The Internet joke you ironed... But if you ask if the minister after this interview is a member of the government or not a member of the government, or what happens to this situation today, I replied in the first hour of Question Time that we are actually in a very serious crisis today. Otherwise, events over the last four or five days would not have evolved to where they have reached today. If it had been a regular interview, no one would have reacted, there wouldn't have been a problem. My reaction was on Friday, as soon as I read it for the first time, when I was still coming from the Council in Brussels, that I could in no way agree with these principles. It is true that the Minister of the Interior has now softened it in his words and in new interviews and said that it has been a misunderstanding and so on. But despite this, it was the original interview, it was the original words, it was a concrete act, and in that regard we have today reached a difficult situation in the coalition: for whom it is a problem and for whom it is perhaps an opportunity and a positive step. Today's situation is really complicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U91	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U92	Thank you. Prime Minister! Let's get back to the subject. I have asked you three times, I will ask you a fourth time, but I will add another preface to this question, which concerns Estonia's international activities in the protection of human rights, the coincidence of words and actions. When a good colleague, Jürgen Ligi, asked the Minister for Defence, where we are still going with such statements, you might also ask where Estonia is going with the fact that at government level we have advised the ambassadors not to join the declarations in which minorities are protected in different countries, including Poland in this case. I see that 50 countries and international organisations have joined, among them the United States, most of NATO Member States, most of the European Union Member States, but not Estonia and Russia, for example. Don't you think our belongings are going somewhere? But my particular question is still the same. Since you three times didn't answer the question, I have a feeling you don't know the details of this step. I would simply remind you that last May, the Minister of Foreign Affairs ordered the ambassadors not to join the declarations concerning the LGBT minorities, including the statement made in Poland last year and this year. That is still the case. I have the question: do you and the Foreign Minister have exactly the same understanding, position? Is that the government's position, or do you and the Foreign Minister have different understandings?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U93	Thank you. I think that, as has been said, the principle that marital status issues are interpersonal and clearly internal issues, where it is not appropriate for other countries to intervene in any way. I also agree that every person has the authority to participate in various public gatherings or meetings in the rule of law. But yes, the specific question is whether or not there is a participation in the name of the Estonian state. So no one can be pushed away or kept away from a public gathering or meeting in person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U95	We have less than two minutes. I don't know if we can get a question and an answer in that time, but let's try. Jürgen Ligi, please! We have to have time for a hall call.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U96	Thank you. It's off the agenda, but I'm still asking. Mr. Aller! What do you mean, if farmers were already in a shortage of labour in 2018, this proves that they are not in it this year? So there is no problem with labour shortages? And what you mean by that, if they have actually had to write down a acre of fields, which this year was certainly more extensive than last year, then the government bans have nothing to do with their economic activities. Explain the logic, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U97	Thank you. There was a Urmas Kruus question, but, well, let's get on with it. The logic is, if we start compensating for something, we can compensate for any loss of results. We were based on turnover. The turnover figures for strawberry growing companies, which are real, turnover figures provided by the tax administration, were shown in comparison to 2019 and 2020, where the first three quarters were compared and only the third quarter was compared separately. That's where the logic comes from. We can compare things, we can't compare hectares. Hectars change, one year more strawberries are put down, the other year more will be taken up. I never said that there were no strawberries left unpicked in strawberry cultivation. Of course it did! On the basis of the 2018 survey, one part of the loss of food was found to occur on the harvest, and on the harvest, the loss of strawberries was found to be 20%. It may also cause later damage due to pests and plant diseases. And this year, it was special that there were a lot of plant diseases.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U98	Thank you. Unfortunately, time's up. I'm so sorry to Urmas Kruus for accidentally giving Jürgen Ligi a chance. I promise next week, if you ask me, I'll stand by the board to get your question somewhere ahead. But unfortunately, time is up. I thank all the questioners, thank all the respondents. Question Time's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U99	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the fifth working week session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. For starters, there is an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. The members of the Riigikogu do not have the wish to transfer drafts and enquiries. Incoming check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U100	85 members of the Riigikogu were registered, 16 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U101	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the second reading of draft Act 191 amending the Traffic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Mr Kalvi Tõvi, member of the Economic Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U102	Ladies and gentlemen, I am here as part of the procedure of the draft law amending the law on traffic law 191; we have a second reading. Let it be at the beginning that, after that, we do not forget the procedural decisions of the commission, and then we go to the content. The commission proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading, including 21 October and the second reading closed. When the second reading is closed, the Commission's proposal to place the draft for the third reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 28 October and to hold a final vote. Now to the contents. Some amendments were received by the Commission, and the Committee on Economic Affairs itself proposed a number of amendments. There are 15 in total on the page of the amendments that you will find on the shelves at the back. I'd group them up a little bit. Amendments 1, 3, 4 and 7 made by the Group of the Social Democratic Party concern one very specific and important issue. Indeed, according to these amendments, a two-wheel moped should not be used on the bicycle road either. However, according to this bill, the right to ride on a bicycle road is only taken away from drivers of a four - wheel moped. The Social Democratic Party Group, with its amendments, felt that it was also unreasonable to ride a two-wheel moped on a bicycle road. A moped could be used on the road, and a bicycle road could be left for riders, i.e. for all those who travel by bike, by light motion, etc. These amendments were not taken into account by the Commission. Amendment 2: It might be said that this has perhaps been forgotten or overlooked by the Ministry. "Rear-weight motor' is replaced by "light-weight motor'. There is nothing very important here, just one paragraph has forgotten to exchange a word. Amendment 5 As we know, a pedestrian is not only the person who walks, but also the roller ski, roller skates, scooters, scooters, or other such aids are actually a pedestrian. And so Amendment 5, made by the Committee on Economic Affairs, adds: "A pedestrian must move on the road or part of the road intended for him. A pedestrian using a skateboard, roller skateboard or ski, scooter or skateboard or any similar aid shall drive at a speed which is not significantly different from that of a pedestrian not using the aid device after passing a pedestrian which is not in the immediate vicinity. " If you drive roller skates and pass a pedestrian on a sidewalk, you may not be able to drive there much faster than a pedestrian. A similar regulation has already been introduced for cycling passengers, and Amendment 5 would also apply to pedestrians with aids. Amendment 6 provides as follows: On the pavement and on the road you can ride a bicycle or a mini-moped [a police officer, an assistant police officer or an ambulance worker carrying out duties. In the draft, the word "fast nature" was included, which specified the duties of the same official. But it is very difficult to regulate that either when an auxiliary policeman or an ambulance is driving on a pedestrian track, he goes somewhere to perform urgent tasks or patrols there. Therefore, Amendment 6 removes the word "fast nature" from the draft, simply stays on duty, i.e. even if a policeman, a deputy police officer or an ambulance worker simply patrols, looks at the situation and does not perform an urgent task, he can ride on the road with these means of transport. Now Amendment 8. Amendment 8 is the amendment that may have been the most debated at first reading in this Chamber, i.e. how a cyclist can pass a pedestrian. There was a text in the bill, so I'll see where I have it written out. The text was: "The pedestrian, the light - moving driver and the petty moped driver must drive at normal pedestrian speeds in the immediate vicinity of the pedestrian. " Perhaps they can pass a pedestrian [only a pedestrian] at normal speed. As I recall, at first reading there was a question that if a pedestrian walks at his own speed and a rider has to drive past him at the same speed, how is that possible? By now, in the working group and in the committee, in cooperation with ministerial officials, we have found the wording that has been put before you as Amendment 8: he must drive at a speed which is not significantly different from pedestrian speed and which allows pedestrians to pass safely. It shall be permitted to drive at [only] speeds which are not significantly different from [the pedestrian's speed]. He has to go a little faster, but the speed has to be such that he can pass the pedestrian safely. So much for Amendment 8. Amendment No 8 also relates somewhat to Amendment 9, which was made by the Social Democratic Party. We had a different wording there. In any case, the amendment of the Social Democratic Party Group has been disregarded. Amendment 9. This amendment sets out how a rider can pass a pedestrian. It must pass at the same speed and safely on every section of the road or part of the road or on a road classification where a pedestrian can walk. The Group of the Social Democratic Party proposed that this list be more limited, i.e. when a pedestrian walks along the right-hand side of the road, the rider must pass him safely and speedlessly, i.e. he will almost stick to the road and drive past him. Our proposal was to remove from this list the right-hand side of the road, the bike path and the bike path. This amendment was not taken into account by the Commission. Amendments 10 and 11 are interrelated and concern that, when approaching and crossing the intersection of roads with limited visibility on the bicycle and footpath, on the roadway and on the sidewalk, a cyclist, a light-moped driver and a moped driver must drive at such a speed that they can stand within the range of the vehicle's forward visibility and the obstacle on the road which they had to anticipate due to limited visibility. In other words, if a rider drives down the road and somewhere around the corner or under the lever walks on the road, then the rider should anticipate it and be able to reduce speed in order to avoid a collision. That is the content of this amendment. The rider must predict that there might be an obstacle at this intersection, and he must avoid an accident. Amendment 11, made by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and partially taken into account, is also related to this amendment. Amendment 12 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs. It may be said to be technical, and I am not commenting on that at this point in time. However, I would like to comment on Amendment 13. It's a change that could say, light motion, bicycle and even moped don't connect at all. This amendment has been brought to the attention of the Chancellor of Justice, and it concerns the carriage of children or pupils on school buses. The Committee on Economic Affairs also decided to solve this problem and include this amendment in this draft, because this area is part of the traffic law, although it does not directly relate to the original ideology of this draft, or to the original reason why we did it. This amendment amends the Traffic Act to the following wording: On a bus used for occasional carriage of children on an external road, children under 18 years of age may be carried on seats fitted with safety belts and the carriage of standing children shall be prohibited. If this amendment becomes a law and if the buses are type-approved with safety belts, these safety belts must be used, they must be fixed. This has also been pointed out by the Chancellor of Justice and the Committee on Economic Affairs have decided to include this amendment in the draft amendment. Amendments 14 and 15 relate to the time of implementation of the law. I have presented the content of the amendments to you, as well as the procedural decisions. I'm waiting for questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U103	Thank you. Indeed, you also have questions, but first, I think Evgeny Ossinovski has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U104	Thank you. I have a substantive question after, but before that, it's procedural. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Draft 191 materials. The explanatory memorandum summarises briefly what happened to the amendments and then states that the course of discussion of the proposals is fully reflected in the draft draft minutes of the Commission. But I'm gonna open the bill card and there's no protocol. Can you get it from somewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U105	Yeah, but I think it's from the Commission. The Commission shall be responsible for the documents and shall nod there by a representative of the Commission. So please, make the materials available to Evgeny Ossinovski. Evgeny Ossinovski, first question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U106	Thank you, Mr President. The Commission has, of course, unfortunately done bad work and has not, in essence, addressed these proposals with sufficient adequacy. My first question concerns this matter of mopeds. Indeed, I think many of us, surprisingly, are allowed by the current traffic law on the bicycle road to ride also on the moped. Mopeds are a means of transport with a right to travel up to 45 kilometres per hour. Now we have proposed that it be taken away. [But then it was said that this proposal] is still a bad thing, the mopeds must be protected, let them ride the bicycle road. But according to the applicable traffic law, pedestrians can also walk on a bicycle road along the 45 - km - an - hour - mile [45 km] mopeds. How is that normal? It's somehow out of the question, at least from this protocol.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U107	Thank you. This issue was, of course, a debate in the Commission, as it is part of the amendments. I can say that representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications explained in the Commission that the draft bans three-wheel and four-wheel mopeds on the road and on the bicycle track. Their position, which they submitted to the Commission, was that two-wheel mopeds would be safer to travel on a bicycle track and on a bicycle road than to shift them to regular traffic, i.e. on the streets. It must be said that when voting on this amendment, the majority of the members of the Commission also supported the position of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U108	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U109	Thank you. I would like to clarify once the debate concerning the fact that a cyclist now, as he approaches, for example, a limit-visibility intersection, is obliged to set speed in such a way that he can stop. Let me get this straight: if we have a situation where a bicycle road crosses a road where cars drive and cars have a duty to give a cyclist a road, then the obligation still applies to a cyclist, as if he were to be hit by a racer? What happens if there is an accident in a place like this? Can the driver say yes, I didn't give you tea, but the cyclist himself is guilty because he should have predicted the accident?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U110	No, a good co-worker, it is, of course, regulated by other points of traffic law. But if you read this amendment, there is no mention of a road, there are all other "roads." In the case of a roadway, of course, if it intersects the track and the rider has already been granted the right, this does not apply. But all these other types of roads are meant: the footpath, the sidewalk, the bike road, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U111	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Please explain a little why a moped can't ride on a bicycle road. In the current law, this option exists, the speed limit is 45 km/h. In fact, you can ride a bicycle just as fast. Life has shown that those who take a bicycle sport and drive at high speed travel along the road. Evidently, mopeds travel more quickly there. And those who, for some reason, are too dangerous to travel on the road and are safer to ride on a light traffic road or on a bicycle road are going there, even though the mopeds do not see too much in real life, and the amendment of the law obliges them to take account of the speed of a pedestrian. What is the problem, why is it absolutely necessary to ban it? Perhaps you will open up the views and arguments of the authors of the amendment in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U113	Thank you. According to the draft law, the right to drive three-wheel and four-wheel mopeds [on the bicycle road] has been removed, that is clear. The author of the amendment, the Social Democratic Party Group, proposed to remove this right from the two-wheel mopeds. Reading the explanation of their proposal and perhaps a little more in the background, the proposal [the idea] is that we want and promote more people to ride on wheels, and wheels and all kinds of other vehicles are coming up to the bike track, and we hope that they will be more and more. Since mini - moped drivers, if they are minors, have to make a traffic beam anyway, they have learned about traffic and are able to drive on the road in normal circumstances. Why, then, should the moped driver, while the bike track is on the side of the road, turn on the bike track and drive there? It was the idea of the authors of this amendment to make more room for wheels, i.e. to promote wheels and take all possible motorized vehicles to the road. If you think it's not a problem, Mart, it's your opinion, but that's what the people who made the amendment thought.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U114	Kristiina Šmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U115	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The question concerns Amendment 13. It was very clear that the school bus must not carry children standing up. You also said that if the bus is equipped with seat belts, the children must have their seat belts fastened. But when it comes to a school bus that doesn't even have seat belts, shouldn't it be carried by children or how? I didn't understand that. Please explain whether the bus must be equipped with such equipment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U116	Thank you. The question is understandable. All buses fitted with type-approved safety belts and fitted with such safety belts shall be restrained and operated. After all, we know today's situation that children are also being carried by buses with no seat belts. These buses will continue to carry children. Of course, in the future, it will be possible for those purchasing student transports to choose from their children if they respect them more than their children, they will make [procurement] conditional on buses having to be in the course of the year, where seat belts are already in place, etc. Perhaps all new buses with seat belts must have them fixed. This is the idea that the Chancellor of Justice has also drawn attention to.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U117	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I have already asked this question once in this Chamber, but I will ask again with regard to Amendment 8. We know that traffic works well, if people are cultural, respect the rules and laws. But the factors that this bill actually makes us even more aware of are increasing in traffic. And now I'm asking you, we're making regulations, but who's watching them. How is it ensured that these fine vehicles adhere to these good ideas? The police are on the highway, aren't they, but is he going to settle these situations on smaller roads?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U119	Thank you. The answer is that surveillance is carried out by the Police and Border Guard Board. Will they be there [for smaller roads]? They'll have to make it. It's their duty.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U120	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U121	Thank you. I'm helping my colleague, the Gridship. There is a physical concept such as impulse and it plays a very important role in causing damage to a person in the event of a collision. The weight of a moped is about 80 to 90 kilograms, the weight of a bicycle is about 10 to 15 kilograms. If we put a rider on top of a rider or a moped driver there, the impulse he's hitting on a pedestrian is about two, maybe even a little more times bigger, and hence [is greater] damage. I'm sure there are cyclists who drive 50 miles an hour. I don't think there's a lot of people in this hall that can do that. Some are. On the other hand, moped drivers can do this for certain reasons. My second question concerns a little of the limited-visibility stop that Raimond Kaljulaid asked about. Take Soo Street, for example. I'm taking my kid by bicycle to the kindergarten through there, along the bicycle and footpaths. There's a car coming out every corner. Is the ideal, then, for cyclists to stop at every corner and let cars pass, or maybe in this place it could still be that the cars are waiting for the right moment to get on the road? How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U122	Thank you. I may feel anything here, but that's exactly the way it is, so, of course, you can stop the cars and let the rider through.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U123	Jürgen Ligi, you were waving your hand, did you have a procedural question? No, it wasn't. You wanted to signal that you were going over 50 miles an hour. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U124	Thank you very much. I hope the good waitress doesn't mind, I have two questions in one. The point is this: this law states that if, because of the traffic conditions, cycling on the road, on the road or on the bicycle track is difficult to travel, you can also drive on the road and on the sidewalk. Please specify whether there was a discussion within the Commission about what this means because of the conditions of traffic. Does this mean that there are a lot of cars going around at the time or that these cars are moving irresponsibly? Or how am I supposed to appreciate it as a cyclist? And the second clarification: was there any mention of the following in the Commission? This bill places a great deal of responsibility on cyclists to ensure the safety of everyone else. But on the highway, for example, when a car passes a cyclist doing sports, should the driver not keep a certain distinction with him, or in the same way in the city when I pass a cyclist on the street? Should the driver not also be obliged to take account of the safety of the cyclist after the cyclist? Was it said that there could be something like this in this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U125	Thank you. These matters were discussed at the meeting of the working group before the Commission meeting. Well, then, good Raimond, these things are already regulated by the law of traffic. The driver has to keep a certain distinction. All of this is included in the Traffic Act and no amendments were made to it. I'm not going to read the law here, but these things are all in the law of traffic.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U126	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U127	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I'm asking Kristina Shmigun-Luke's question to continue, maybe I didn't understand. Why, though, can buses with no seat belts carry children forward? It's not like it's rocket science. Secondly, did the Commission also mention that it is the pedestrian who is the most dangerous to move on the sidewalks today?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U128	I'll start by answering the second question. Therefore, [the amendments were also tabled], which regulate a little more about how a pedestrian with roller skis, roller skis or whatever is permitted to pass another pedestrian. Of course, we know that it is dangerous for a pedestrian to move there, but yes, with no other amendment we did not change that. Now, good Signe, thank you for asking about [the safety belts]! Let me explain a little bit more about the operation of occasional services, and I would have done it in the context of some other question, anyway. The interests are all those carriages that are not pupils' school trips, but are tours. And in the case of tours, or occasional services, buses with straps must be ordered. When you go on a tour, you have to have a bus with straps on it so that the children can be secured safely. Thank you, Signe, for asking! I explained it a little inaccurately before.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U129	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U130	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, We generally have right-handed traffic, we all know how to drive a car. But would it be possible to organise something like this on the same pedestrian or pedestrian routes where several types of means of transport and mobility are actually used? The reason I ask this is that my observation this summer is that if everyone were to stick to the right side of the rule and move both on foot and on the right side of the wheel, there would clearly be more safe zone for passing, fewer chances of dangerous collisions. Of course, it is also possible to give a sound signal for a bicycle. Was this topic at all or was it not addressed in this debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U131	Thank you, Urmas! We did not specifically address this issue, but in the working group we touched on the location or abandonment of traffic culture and their mobile equipment. But not specifically on this subject. None of the amendments concerned this either. So the answer is, I didn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U132	Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U133	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, Here's the question. If, for example, an electric thruster has caused an accident, is it possible to identify what the person was dealing with when the person who was injured complains to the police, for example, after he has left the scene? If a person identifies himself through a phone app to use a scooter, will it give us any information?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U134	Thank you. No registration or registration is required for light motor vehicles today. So we did not have this issue in the Commission. But it is certainly the case that, if an accident has been caused, the supervisor, or the Police and Border Guard Board, will be looking for who caused the accident. But there are no registration marks for light-mobile vehicles currently prescribed by law. We discussed this subject somewhat in the working group, but they are not planned today. Mopeds do.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U135	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm still gonna ask you about the occasional service, just in case. Is this term defined somewhere? This amendment does not now create a situation in which children can no longer stand on public regular services, i.e. on regular buses or, in fact, on municipal internal lines, because the end of [amendment 13] says that "transport of standing children is prohibited," but the reference is to occasional services? Is it defined anywhere that occasional services are only such a one-time charter?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U137	Yes, this amendment states firmly in paragraph 3: "In a bus used for the occasional carriage of children on an external road, children under the age of 18 may be carried on seats equipped with seat belts. " I guess that's true. It's been said that's the way it is, Mart.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U138	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U139	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question is how all these changes are going to lead to road users. I understand the part that's covered by the traffic command that you have to pass the exam to know how to navigate. But there's a lot more. How is it transferred to the road user via the State Gazette?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U140	Thank you. That's what we were talking about. We're talking about light motion. The Ministry is planning to make a memo for the renters by spring, a bulletin, so if they're renting out scooters, they're gonna have all these rules written out there and they're gonna have to read them. The Ministry plans to launch a major information campaign in the spring before the big season, which will certainly solve the issue you raised. This was answered in the working group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U141	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U142	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I ask about ignorance and the debate that has taken place in the Chamber. To be honest, I have not read this bill, and if my question does not fall within the scope of the bill, I will apologise in advance. Listening to this debate, I have the question that quadricycles have been diverted from the light traffic road. They are also part of the tools. How is an electric wheelchair covered by this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U143	Thank you. It was also discussed in the Commission how to deal with the disability movement. A representative of the Ministry assured us in the Commission that the disabled can move on all these roads if necessary. Yeah. We were wondering that a lot of older people, even in my home country, have bought this three-wheel moped, but it is not their disability. They just drive it quietly, quietly. Yeah, you can't drive it on these roads today, the Ministry took note of that. They'll think about it. I have to tell you that traffic law will come to this hall at least two more times. This is a question and an issue that remained in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U144	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U145	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, It is, of course, nice that wheelchairs are not subject to speed limits and can drive as fast as they need. But I'm looking at these definitions and I see that there's been an attempt to locate different electric vehicles, which is extremely important in itself. But do I get it right that if someone finds some kind of vehicle that doesn't work with electricity, it works with, like, gas or some kind of spring, there's no rule, and he can go anywhere he wants again?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U146	Good Erki! Now I'm gonna answer you like this. Mopeds are allowed to drive because their type approval confirms that they have a maximum speed of 45 kilometres per hour. Electric thrusters are allowed to drive 40 because their type-approval states that they have a maximum speed of 40 kilometres per hour, etc. I guess all the other vehicles you come out with have some kind of number on how fast they can drive. As we see today in the case of electric motors, when many of these [new means of transport] are created on our streets, we will come and change the law again. When the law was signed up for these so-called self-mobiles or whatever they were, no one knew anything about electric drives, but now we're here with them. So I guess life goes a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U147	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U148	Good President! Honourable waitress! My question concerns the eighth amendment. I have to admit, I'm in a bit of awkward situation by formulating this issue. You showed with the filigrane gestures how fast a pedestrian should move and that a cyclist passing by should move a little faster than him. Now, if there is an accident in this situation, an accident, and a cyclist insists that he has chosen the right speed of pass, will the situation be resolved against the word, or what will happen in this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U149	Yeah, really, the definition of the speed of this pedestrian-passing driver we thought about for a long time, and the ministry thought about it for a long time. Now, if there's an accident, it's the Police and Border Guard Board, but maybe the court will tell you exactly how fast it was and how fast it's okay to drive by there, whether it's reasonable or not for a couple of miles per hour. But we, both in the Commission and in the working group, could not find a better wording, did our best.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U150	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U151	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I have a little more philosophical question because you said that life is changing gradually. Technologically, life is changing very quickly. Indeed, ten years ago, no one else knew about those electric shockers, but now the next thing is on the way, okay? Is it possible for a young generation, for example, to design some sort of risk-reduction programme so that they do not take excessive risks? An older person drives calmly, but it is young people who take risks. These changes, as you have just said, do not guarantee that everything will be safe, you are waiting for the first precedent. It is important that people are able to prevent risks.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U152	Thank you. There was a great deal of talk about traffic culture in the Commission and in the working group. I guess that's the part of the traffic culture you just asked about, Urve.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U153	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U154	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I apologise if this has already been mentioned here, but I am essentially asking in the context of an important amendment and asking here for clarity to overdetermine it. When we say that a cyclist, a light motor driver and a petty moped driver must pass him in the immediate vicinity of a pedestrian at a speed not significantly different from that of a pedestrian, the definition of immediate proximity certainly gives rise to ambiguity. I have a request to define the term "immediate proximity" in this remote control.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U155	Thank you. In the original text of the bill, when it came to us, it only said that they had to "drive in the immediate vicinity of a pedestrian at normal pedestrian speed." We all realized at first reading in this Chamber that it is still very far from the [precision] of having to drive at normal pedestrian speeds in the immediate vicinity. I remember Jürgen asked about it several times. And now the working group and the Commission, together with ministerial officials, found the following wording: "to drive at a speed that is not significantly different from that of a pedestrian who does not use the aid and which allows him to pass safely." It's like two sides. He is likely to have to slow down, or drive more slowly and pass the pedestrian safely. Dear friends, we have two options in this Chamber today: either to support Amendment 8 and to introduce into the law the wording proposed by the Commission, which consists of two 'in terms of' driving at a speed which is not significantly different from that of a pedestrian who does not use the aid and which allows him to pass safely', or, second, to put this amendment to the vote, for example by you, Jüri, and to choose the wording of the Ministry, which says that pedestrians must drive at normal speed in the immediate vicinity. We have two options today. I can't define exactly what this pedestrian is... Ah, still. The normal pedestrian speed is about three kilometers an hour.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U156	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U157	Good manager! Good waitress! When you read all these suggestions for improvement, everything is nice when you think about pedestrian roads and footpaths. But I'm quite often exposed to [light motion] driving as I approach the intersection and on the left park a big car and from there, even if you've lowered the speed to zero, you can't see what's coming from the left. I've often wondered when that bang would come. There are places. So it's about motor vehicles right now. Have you not thought about such things to look at [this problem] a little wider?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U158	There was no debate within the framework of this draft law and the Commission did not pay attention to these issues. The Ministry has said that traffic law will come to this hall twice more. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to propose amendments to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U159	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U160	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I have a question. I do not know whether this rose in the Commission, too, is not reflected in the minutes. But I don't understand that voice signal. Walking down a pedestrian's road, a cyclist comes and rings a huge bell. I've asked you sometimes, what's the problem, it's not Tartu Marathon here, where you're yelling, that the path is free, the path is free. After all, we should fit together on one road, and a pedestrian is weaker than a cyclist. Jalgrattur should still take account of pedestrian interests. Has such a thing been discussed in the Commission? I understand that cyclists have to pass the pedestrians, but they still prefer to give the bell that pedestrians out of the way, I come with my own velo.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U161	We did not have this topic in the Commission's meeting, but it certainly belongs exactly to the topic of traffic culture. From these stories, the Ministry may say, after all, that perhaps more attention should be paid to the promotion of traffic culture, not only for riders, people on foot, but also for everyone else. So I guess we're welcome to announce.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U162	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U163	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I'll come back to my last subject. I asked you to explain the concept of "immediate proximity." How do you figure that out? In close proximity, is a cyclist in contact with a pedestrian, or is there some sort of distance between them or how to understand it? To illustrate: If a rider travels on the right side of the road, whether a pedestrian or a sports bike rider travels on the right side of the road, does he or she have to slow down or does he or she not have to? I think it is very important for many people to understand what this immediate proximity means in this context.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U164	This concept, good George, we did not explain in the Commission. But what I understand as a road user is that when I start approaching a pedestrian, when I see that I can slow down the momentum, it's about when immediate proximity begins. In the Commission, we did not give it any dimension of three feet [m] above the pedestrian's immediate proximity. That definitely depends on the speed of the rider. If he's going faster, he's gonna have to slow down sooner. They know who's been riding the bike. In the Commission, we did not link precise measures to the concept of immediate proximity.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U165	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U166	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! As drivers, we have all certainly had contact with the fact that, if there is a bicycle road along the road, cyclists often travel on the road and not alone, but together and side by side, creating very dangerous situations. Is the solution to this question that, if there is still a bicycle road, we should not be climbing the road, was discussed in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U167	Thank you. The direct answer is that it wasn't discussed. The vast content of this draft was connected with electric drives, with riders coming along on bike tracks, on sidewalks. We did not discuss this subject in the Commission [on which you asked]. I think there are certainly points in the law on traffic that regulate this side, but this was not discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U168	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U169	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I understand that on this draft we are, in principle, still based on the principle that an electric scooter is not a pedestrian's tool, but is a micromoped. He goes into that category which, in the context of the Traffic Act, is subject to the requirement that persons under the age of 14 should not be allowed to travel with it. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U170	Yeah, the electric drive is definitely not a pedestrian, he doesn't equal them. He's going to the cell with the minimoped and the bike. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U171	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U172	Thank you. I heard a guy in here with a Mercedes and a driver cursing cyclists that they're climbing the driveway. Please tell me, are cyclists road users and are they allowed to drive on the road or should they travel somewhere in the forest, like many other people, or to Sweden? What is the ideology of this bill? I'm pretty freaked out because I don't see any way to ride a bike where there are prams, dogs and roller skaters, I'd just bother them. What does this bill provide for?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U173	I'm sure there's a bicycle driver, and I think I've explained enough here in these 50 minutes. The rider may also drive on the right-hand side of the road. With this draft amendment, he must pass the pedestrian on the road at a reasonable speed, keeping reasonable distance, as I have explained here. And really, this bill doesn't change the connection between the rider and the driver.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U174	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U175	Hi! It's getting pretty interesting. My question is motivated by the question of both Jürgen and Henn Põllea. I'm trying to fit myself into both driving and cyclist roles. If we are dealing with a road with a dividing line on one side of the cyclists, on the other side of the pedestrians, the road front is basically one, then should I also pass the pedestrian at the same, so-called slow speed, or am I obliged to monitor this slow rate where there is so-called mixed use? According to what logic [in such circumstances] should speed be reduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U176	No, good Urmas. With a bicycle, you will have to pass [the pedestrian] on the road you described, where there is a pedestrian on one side and a rider [on the other side] at a reasonable distance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U177	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U178	Thank you. Mr. Waitress! Does this law also regulate this situation: can men drive women's bikes and vice versa?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U179	Thank you. This proposal was not discussed in the Commission. But then I say to Urmas Kruus that if you wanted to ride normally there, you would have had the opportunity to support the Social Democratic Party Group's amendment, which unfortunately only received one vote in favour of the committee and is not to be voted on today. They proposed precisely that such paths be removed from the bill and that only a sidewalk and a pedestrian path be left.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U180	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? Yes, Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U181	Thank you very much. On the executive side, there was a signal that maybe this wasn't the most important issue. A more important topic for Estonia than this bill almost doesn't exist. This is one of the most important things that the Riigikogu discusses. It is simply, perhaps first of all [I speak of it] to understand that no law is in a vacuum, which framework is it, and on which basis we should assess this bill. There is no doubt that the law needs to be modernised, as there has been a digital shift in the meantime, including the development of easy-to-lease electric drives in urban traffic. There are also rented electric bicycles on the streets of other European cities, they certainly come here at one point and we need to regulate traffic better. If you recall when we discussed the last human development report, on the one hand, urbanisation and, on the other hand, the caring of our cities is, I think, one of the biggest local life and, in fact, national issues that we have to deal with somehow. The problem is, of course, that decisions are often made in favour of the very same car and car traffic, car transport. When we look at what investments are being made nationally and in local governments, we see that it is precisely the solutions that encourage road traffic that are often the most spent. Similarly, the problem is that, for example, the coalition agreement of the current government provides that the state should support the establishment and implementation of the local government's cycling strategies. Some time ago, my good colleague Jaak Juske and I asked the Minister for Economic Affairs about which municipalities had received support under this measure and to what extent. At the time, at least in Taavi Asa, there was no specific answer to us. In this light, if you look at this bill and you have followed the previous debate, there are some questionable nuances here. The same point, which says that if traffic conditions make driving on a road, on a road or on a bicycle track significantly difficult, you can also cycle on a road or on a sidewalk. Well, what exactly does that mean? Is it possible, for example, if there are many cars on a large city street that should drive at 50 km/h, but which actually travel faster, for example 55 km/h or 60 km/h, that a cyclist can treat a cyclist in such a way that it is not safe to travel on this road because of traffic conditions, even if there is a separate bicycle track? Well, I would advise cyclists, of course, to draw that conclusion depending on their driving experience. It's probably not wise to go into this kind of traffic. But at the same time, for example, light - moving vehicles can be driven along the sidewalk, regardless of the condition or traffic conditions of the road. Even if the road is completely empty and there's a separate path, I can drive on the sidewalk. Well, that was an example. The second thing I also pointed out earlier concerns the safe passage of a cyclist. Indeed, § 33 of today's Traffic Act states that the driver must be attentive to the road user on the side of the road, and § 53 states that a safe longitudinal and lateral separation must be maintained when passing by. During the previous composition of the Riigikogu, signatures were collected on the basis of a popular initiative and finally the address to the Riigikogu came from the Estonian Union of Yalgrats, the Association of Estonian City Riders and the Estonian Triathlon Union. They asked the Riigikogu to clarify the law so that it would indeed be safe to pass and that the leaders would maintain a distance of one and a half metres. Everyone who has done a bit of bicycle sports on the road in this hall is also aware very well that, given Estonia's traffic culture today, these passings are not safe and, unfortunately, not all drivers are paying attention. So, what happened to this popular initiative? The Committee on Economic Affairs during the previous term discussed this and replied to the citizens who had collected signatures and talked a lot about this subject, working hard not to worry, the Ministry of Economic Affairs is about to complete the amendments to the law on traffic and, of course, we will forward your proposal to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and the Ministry of Economic Affairs will certainly take it very seriously. Now before us there is a bill of 191 and this [proposal under the People's Initiative] has not been taken into account. So, for these reasons, I would advise some groups to propose: let us take a step backwards and discuss these amendments and this law even further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U182	Thank you. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U183	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not speaking on behalf of the group either; I am speaking on my own behalf and as a cyclist on behalf of my son, whom we ride with on our bike. This latter is not a minor addition, because when you read this type of regulation, it is clear that the people who write these regulations have never been themselves in this situation so that they can understand what should be regulated and how. This is not only about riders, but also about people with disabilities, their mobility opportunities, on which solutions are created, which are actually completely inappropriate. [To the same extent] young parents who have to get across the sidewalk with a stroller understand at these moments that they did not understand the way in which the sidewalks were to be built. These eyes won't open until later. It's exactly the same with bicycles. Take, for example, a specific section of the road. On Gonsiori Street, a new bicycle track was built on the sidewalk, painted beautifully red. But who thought of doing concrete niches every 10 meters across the path that you would drive along the railroad? Clearly, this person has never rode a bike in Tallinn, that he was able to come up with such a thing. Unfortunately, it also reflects the regulation that glows through here. Some additions to the debate that have already been held. I'd like three more minutes right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U184	Three minutes extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U185	First of all, mopeds. As a minor, I have travelled 15,000 kilometres in Tallinn on a moped, always on the road. It never occurred to me that it would be normal to go on a bicycle road, a place where people are walking by foot and by bicycle. For me, it was a surprise that such a thing was allowed in Estonia at all. An even bigger surprise was that someone can justify it being reasonable. 45 km/h moving 150 kg thing at the place where cyclists drive and where pedestrians are allowed to travel in accordance with § 22 (2) of the Traffic Act. And this, under the terms of this, is the type-approvals, all the other things that drive at speeds of up to 45 km/h. Ask any traffic cop how many mopeds actually have a speed limiter. They travel 80 km/h, 90 km/h from the mountain, so I've been told, and in this situation, we're letting them move onto the bicycle road. What's a bicycle road? A bicycle road, for example, is a separate section on the Reid road with only a bicycle mark. It is also possible for pedestrians to go there if they do not interfere with cyclists, or whether it is reasonable or not, if it is still a path for cyclists. But that's where we're gonna allow the 45 km/h of mobile mopeds. It's absurd! That they could ride a bicycle track next to the road, in case there are no cyclists, I admit. It could be allowed. The Commission could have modified our amendment in this context and reached an agreement here. But not a reasonable solution was sought, but a complete lack of understanding was expressed. There is another subject that I would like to draw attention to alongside a safe passage. All that nonsense that was written together in this bill got a little better, it's true, and that's what I'm not focusing on right now, but I would like to draw attention to the last part of the bill that concerns these things that are going in and out of the courtyards. The problem is, of course, real. Cars are driven out of blind courtyards or at the ends of the road, and when there is a bicycle or other means of transport or a person with a baby cart, there is basically a risk of collision. The question is now who should be protected by the law of traffic: is it the weaker road users, the mother with the baby carriage and the cyclist, [or the driver]? [We should] create conditions so that the car is obliged to stop and exit these dark corners at a speed of 0,5 km/h. Instead, we are introducing the regulation that was originally in the draft that a bicycle must stop at every corner from which a potentially car might come out. Imagine the same street of Soo, the ones who've ever been there. There's a car leaving every other yard at 9:30 in the morning. This is a really dangerous place. But should cyclists be responsible for safety there, climbing off their bikes at any intersection where a car might appear? It's nonsense. A Commission servant said that I do not understand anything and that, in fact, the general provisions of traffic law require that the driver be polite and take into account road safety in general. Well, I read those settings. In principle, these obligations exist, but at the moment the bill adds § 321 to the Act, a separate paragraph that imposes additional requirements and burdens on light road users to ensure safety on these roads. I'd rather tell you what extra cars should do. Now, a general remark raised and discussed by gentlemen Ligi and Põljaas. That is, in fact, the whole point of the matter, whether we are symbolically moving in the direction that we have safe places for cyclists, where they have the full priority of driving, as they could be on a bicycle road, or where their safety is guaranteed by drivers. Of course, if such conditions are not guaranteed, for example, in the light traffic road, which is a foot and bicycle road, and there are children and dogs moving there, then it is understandable that cyclists are looking for a place where they can travel more safely, because they have not actually had a clean bike route. Now the question is how to deal with this situation. Do you force cyclists on a road where they have to drive 5 km/h? It is actually [not a good plan] if you want to use a bicycle and promote its use as a daily means of transport. Clearly, [the use of bicycles as a daily means of transport] would no longer be possible if [the bicycle rider] had to stop at every corner, drive at 5 km/h, etc. Or are we still working to establish a regulation that will enable light-mobile people, including cyclists, to gradually withdraw cities from cars? The need for this is frankly clear, both in the context of the global climate crisis and in the context of global urban planning, air quality and health, I think. The fact that it has not yet arrived at anyone's position, as reflected in this bill for traffic, but also more broadly in the government's plan for sustainable transport, is extremely regrettable. As these amendments were essentially not dealt with by the Commission, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I propose that the second reading of this draft be interrupted and that these amendments be discussed again in substance in order to find solutions suitable for cyclists and all other road users. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U186	Henn Põllamaas, please! Would you like a line because your name was mentioned?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U187	The waitress named me, I'll make a short reply. I am deeply surprised at how Jevgeni Ossinovski found it much safer for cyclists to drive on the road in the middle of cars than on a bicycle and pavement built by a road or on a light traffic road. I think that's a completely perverse idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U188	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi is also entitled to reply because his name was mentioned. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U189	Thank you. I must say that the previous speaker insulted me as an amateur cyclist with this speech. Really! The person who knows how to actually practice a bicycle sport can't imagine that Tanel Kangert would be forced to ride between baby carriages and walkers. And no ordinary hobby is much slower, it's 10 km/h slower. It's the most dangerous idea you can think of for a cyclist to push him on a path with walkers and dogs. Yeah, on the highway, on the street, on the road you can survive. But there [between walkers] is no way to survive.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U190	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. There are 15 amendments to the draft and we will examine them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U191	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U192	We will vote on this amendment. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the first amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U193	19 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, 55 against and 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. A second amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs. The position of the commission is to take this fully into account. A third amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U194	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U195	Thank you. We will vote on this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, do you need a hall call? Nobody's asking for it. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the third amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U196	21 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 60 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. A fourth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U197	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U198	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the fourth amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U199	20 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 58 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs. The position of the commission is to take this fully into account. The sixth amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs. The position of the commission is to take this fully into account. The Seventh Amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U200	Thank you. I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U201	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the seventh amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U202	21 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, with 56 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account; the proposal is not to be voted in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act. The tenth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs. The position of the commission is to take this fully into account. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is to take this into account in part. The 12th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The 13th amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The 14th amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The 15th amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. We have examined all the amendments. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading of draft 191. The Social Democratic Party Group has proposed to suspend the draft law amending the Road Traffic Act at second reading 191 and we are going to vote on this amendment. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Social Democratic Party Group's proposal to interrupt the draft law amending traffic law initiated by the Government of the Republic at second reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U203	32 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal for interruption, 58 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading has therefore been completed and today's first item is being dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U204	Attention, ladies and gentlemen, let's move on. The second item is the first reading of the Bill 246 on the ratification of the Investment Protection Treaty between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, of the other part, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu to waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U205	Thank you. Honourable members of the High House! The Government of the Republic has submitted to the High Chamber a draft act ratifying the Agreement on Investment Protection between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, on the other, and is asking for its enforcement and approval of its accession to the International Agreement. With the entry into force of this agreement, the Agreement between Estonia and Vietnam on the facilitation and protection of investments, which entered into force on 11 February 2012, and its Protocol, will automatically end. This will certainly contribute to better protection of the economic interests of Europe as a whole, including Estonia, and to trade in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U206	Thank you. You have questions too. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U207	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I just didn't understand our Socialist demarch hall. Does this have anything to do with the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and is there perhaps new knowledge that, if they invest, they are on their way to capitalism and that is why they organised such an exemplary demarche from this hall that the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is on the wrong path?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U208	Thank you. No, it has nothing to do with the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. Today is Heljo Pikhofi's birthday and everyone has the opportunity to get a glass effervescent in the group of sots. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U209	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I would like to ask Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U210	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiated this draft on 21 September. The Committee on Foreign Affairs was appointed as the leading committee by decision of the Riigikogu Board. The Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the preparation of the draft for the first reading at its meeting on 13 October. During the discussion of the draft proposal, the Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Reinsalu gave an overview of the content and objectives of the draft. The Committee on Foreign Affairs unanimously took the following procedural decisions: The proposal is to put draft 246 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for first reading on Wednesday, 21 October. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U211	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 246. We're done with the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 4 November at 5.15 p.m. The second item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U212	Let's keep going. Today's third item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Aliens Act, the Higher Education Act and the Study Grants and Student Loan Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'd like to ask the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme, to serve as a waitress. In short, I will remind the members of the Riigikogu of the procedure for first reading. First of all, the initiator is the presentation. Then there will be a co-rapporteur, who today is Lauri Läänemets, Vice-President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Each member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask two questions from the place until one minute is the time to ask the question. I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that we are trying to fit our question into a minute. It is often the case that the introductory part of the question takes a minute and that the question starts after a minute. We are trying to change this practice in such a way that it is in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Of course, the free choice of members of the Riigikogu is whether they ask both questions to one rapporteur or both rapporteurs one question. Okay. I believe that I have adequately introduced the procedure for dealing with the item and that Mr Home Secretary can begin to present the draft. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U213	I'm sorry, I thought the last point would take a few minutes longer. Since people are all like, what goes in at one end has to come out of the other, I needed to go to the bathroom. I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U214	You don't have to apologize at all, Minister. This was a time that we needed to introduce the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U215	There you go! Okay, but let's get down to business. I'm gonna get a little bit here... I've got a whole bunch of things.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U216	Draft 241 is currently under discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U217	Yeah, 241, but since I had a whole bunch of other papers gathered here during the day, I had to do a little bit of work. But what is the bill? It is a draft designed to amend the Aliens Act and other related laws. Of course, any such change has its reasons and its purpose. The purpose of the draft is to organise the conditions of stay, study and employment of foreigners in Estonia. Of course, it also takes into account the need to protect the local labour market in Estonia and to prevent undesirable effects of learning and labour migration on the economy, public order and state security. What is the reason why we have to come to this? The reason is very simple. Estonia has become a country of destination as a result of the increase in quality of life. This means that although we naturally have a certain exchange of blood and people leaving Estonia are known to be of different categories, then at the same time Estonia is the destination country and we have people coming from both the European Union and third countries. Those who come from third countries to Estonia are very often less demanding in terms of both pay and working conditions than people moving within the European Union or Estonia's own citizens and permanent residents. Consequently, the number of applications for short-term employment has increased very rapidly since 2016. There has also been a very rapid increase in the number of cases of illegal employment, as well as in the scheme for compliance with working conditions and wage criteria. The number of applications for temporary residence permits for study purposes has also remained high in recent years. The use of mobility and family involvement has continued to increase especially for third-country nationals who are at risk of migration and security. The legal basis for learning mobility is often used to gain access to the Schengen area instead of education and potentially move to other Schengen countries or settle permanently here. That is why the objectives of the draft amendments are as follows: firstly, to hold back the growth of communities from risk countries; secondly, to prevent situations where learning mobility is actually aimed not at education, but at accessing the Schengen area and settling permanently in it; thirdly, to protect the local labour market and reduce unemployment among local residents; fourthly, to prevent misuse of the legislation on the employment of foreigners and to promote fair competition. What are the main changes? I will try to be brief, because I see that there are a lot of questions, and I am afraid that there will be even more and that everyone will make maximum use of their possibility to ask. I therefore also leave room to answer the questions so as not to repeat the same thing all the time. First of all, changes concerning family migration. From now on, family members will not be granted a visa under the same conditions as an alien studying in Estonia or working in the short term. The visa is a temporary basis for stay and a foreign national who has received a visa and his or her family members must leave Estonia at the end of his or her stay. Visas for family members under the same conditions as for foreigners are not justified, as family life can live in a foreign country of origin, stays here temporarily and therefore has other conditions and rules. It is not right for the state to encourage the move of family members who are temporarily staying to Estonia if the state does not have the capacity to provide services and provide health insurance, day-care centres and school places, as well as the possibility to permit the change in the basis of stay, because the granting of residence permits for employment is limited by the immigration limit. But there are exceptions. Exceptions are granted to single parents, academic staff, persons working for research and development purposes, workers transferred within the company and doctoral students. The requirements for a higher education institution inviting foreigners to study are specified. It's very important. Provision shall be made for the institution of higher education to have the appropriate institutional accreditation when granting a visa and residence permit to an alien. We have operated educational institutions that have been missing, and now one educational institution has also been closed. The Higher Education Act provides for the obligation for higher education institutions to claim reimbursement of study costs for foreigners studying in foreign languages. This is necessary so that our own people can continue to study for free. The validity of a temporary residence permit granted for study ends when an alien interrupts his or her studies or fails to complete his or her curriculum. I can assure you from my internship that failure to complete curricula or to interrupt studies is not uncommon, but at present it does not lead to the obligation to leave Estonia. The residence permit for an alien's family member, spouse or close relative will also end 30 days after the spouse's studies have stopped, just as a former student must leave Estonia within 30 days of leaving Estonia. Foreigners who have settled in Estonia for the purpose of studying and have completed their studies cannot immediately apply for a residence permit to settle permanently in Estonia. Permanently settling in Estonia must be preceded by a residence permit issued either for work or for business purposes, with the exception of foreigners who have completed doctoral studies. Aliens who have received a temporary residence permit cannot also apply for need-based education allowance. One of the conditions for granting a residence permit for studying is that an alien must have sufficient legal income to enable him and his family members to survive in Estonia in order to exclude a situation where the livelihood of an alien depends on the state's social security measures. Now some comments are also made on labour migration. A foreigner can only work for the short term on the basis of a long-stay visa, D-visa, come to Estonia and work for 30 days on the basis of another resident visa, or C-visa or visa waiver, but then you must apply for a long-stay visa. The aim of the change is to direct employers to give priority to the labour force of Estonian residents and to avoid a situation in which the employer is comfortable to take a visa-free foreigner to work in the context of the economic crisis, to plan work with conditions and wage criteria and thus to achieve an unfair competitive advantage. Exceptions are granted to work as a seasonal worker (this is due to the Directive), as a teacher, as an academic worker or as a researcher [at an appropriate educational institution] or in a research and development institution or to work as a youth worker. The time allowed to work as a seasonal worker shall be reduced temporarily until 30 April 2026, to six months. The amendment is most directly linked to the corona, the economic crisis and the current high rate of local unemployment. The wage criterion for seasonal workers is established, which means that the employer is obliged to pay the seasonal worker a fee at least equal to the average gross monthly wage of Estonia for the relevant seasonal activity published by Statistics Estonia. It is different in different areas. It is the lowest in food and drink services, or services, with an average salary of EUR 880 per month, and the highest in plant and livestock farming, hunting and service activities where it is EUR 1044 per month. Finally. A foreigner may be employed only on a full-time basis in the future, both for short-term work and for work on the basis of a residence permit. It is not justified to bring an alien to work in Estonia if the job is only part-time, especially considering that an alien must support himself and often his or her family in Estonia. The exception is for the following categories of work: working as a teacher, academic staff or a researcher in an educational institution or research and development institution that complies with the requirements laid down by Estonian legislation. That's all for my introduction.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U218	Thank you. Minister, there are also questions for you. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U219	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The general foundation of this cluster law, despite the joint effort of our universities to maintain and also every day create a level of international learning environment, provides a very unique and discriminatory signal. First of all, foreign students are not welcome here. Secondly, they should not work very hard here, although studies show that labour market participation is a much faster integration into society. Thirdly, we do not want an external student family here, or rather you do not want it, although a large part of the students participating in the Master's degree are examples of the so-called Lifelong Learning Programme and already at the age when the family was created, or they are very distinguished professionals. Fourthly, if the proportion of foreign students falls drastically after this legislative amendment, how do you think universities should restructure their current activities in such a short period of time? It remains unclear to me what the draft problem is being resolved and, in turn, what new problems this discriminatory nature poses with the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U220	Thank you. It doesn't cause any more problems, it's made up. I suggest you look at a document. You may ask that you receive such a nice document from the Ministry of the Interior as "12 myths about the stay, study and work of foreigners in Estonia," which contradicts most of all the claims that were contained in your numerous issues. Estonia does not reject foreign students. Estonia is dealing with regulating the learning of students from third countries here, which is something else entirely. Estonia is open to all those who come here from the European Union to learn. We are currently learning about 2 000 people from the countries of the European Union, most of all from Finland. I think 2,000 people are quite a lot. When we look at third countries, there are around 3,000 students (these figures naturally vary). The problem is with those students from third countries who, according to statistics, to a considerable extent (if memory does not deceive me, about 10% of them) interrupt their studies, but they are already legalised here, either going from here to a third country in the Schengen area or staying here. They have often brought here their family in the short time they have learned here. In many cases, the concept of family is quite different from ours, that is, brothers, sisters, their children, etc. We have developed quite large communities not yet represented, which have already become self-inflicted. This means that there is no longer a need for an excuse for learning or working, but these communities are, in principle, expanding under the name of "family union" with increasingly new and new members. Plus, these new communities have also created a number of companies here, which are often relatively fictitious, and they also bring their compatriots here on the pretext of bringing labour. We are working on tidying it up, there is nothing discriminatory about it, there is nothing xenophobic about it. The state must act as a state and, in this case, the Estonian state has still failed to do so. At the moment, we are trying to create a situation in which a country acts as a country, controlling migration processes. There is nothing discriminatory here. Such policies and laws have long been developed in all normal countries. In some of the old countries, try to shake yourself up as an illegal. Well, it's not gonna work out.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U221	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U222	Thank you, President of the sitting. Minister, thank you very much. Any change that is made is still aimed at making Estonia's life better, so that we are attractive in Estonia, so that we do not become a periphery, so that we are not pushed away in any way. Please tell me what the problem is that this bill is about to change. Has it been analysed that, if these changes are introduced, will this not cause even greater problems and concerns? In fact, what can this bring to Estonia, Estonia's reputation and attractiveness?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U223	You see, Estonia is a border country and we are committed to defending our borders. Under the Schengen Agreement, we have committed ourselves to checking all the people entering the Schengen area. The draft law deals with us improving this control over entering the Schengen area. We will do nothing to make Estonia a periphery or to close Estonia. Such speculations and claims are simply unfounded. We will specify the control mechanisms for entering the Schengen area.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U224	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U225	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Each bill has its own background and this procedure is preceded by your earlier statements on foreign labour, foreign students and universities. I'm embarrassed, but I'm quoting. In 2018, you made a statement that if you knock on them in the head, it would sound like hollowwood was described as a second-colored foreign student, whom you yourself taught. You have also called universities a migration pump, although internationalisation has been the success story of universities and the image design of the Estonian state. What reputation are we talking about today? Previously, the message sent to outside and foreign students is that they are not welcome in Estonia. As a minister to the Riigikogu today, could you apologize for these and other earlier statements and take them back?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U226	I have nothing to apologize for. As usual, all my sayings have been out of context. This hollow wood, it was a longer sentence. But the whole sentence isn't taken out. I said that if you knock on some of our students in the head who haven't properly completed their programs, of course I don't quote the saying right now from years ago, it sounds like knocking against trees, but if you knock against the head of those who come here without any qualifications, based on incomprehensible diplomas, it sounds like hollow wood. It's not racist, it's not xenophobic, it describes how they're pulling down the level of education at our universities. I've been working on it myself. If you have students in a group who don't understand how they've gotten here, if they don't understand anything, if their English skills are down to all kinds of records, then the question is whether I'm in kindergarten or I'm in a faculty chair. That's the context of the whole thing. If you can't understand it, it's just malicious. And some kind of closure and damage to Estonia's reputation, please stop talking about damage to Estonia's reputation. This is the elephant story, you know: the German thinks how much it will become, and the Russian wonders how much it will be and how much you will be, but the Estonian thinks he doesn't know what the elephant thinks of me. Look, don't think about what that elephant thinks about me. Think about it: we have a country, and the state must act like a country. Migration cannot be an uncontrolled process. Why do we have the Aliens Act? Why do we have the police? Why do we have border guards? Why do we have border control? But to prevent migration from being an uncontrolled process. Very simple.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U227	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U228	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Your speech may have sounded through a new definition of a family that defines single parent as a family. This was about how family members can be taken with them when it comes to single parents. But you have said in a very clear and loud voice that you are trying to keep jobs for Estonians by preventing foreigners from working here. The same action took place during the summer in strawberry farming and agriculture, when you defended it and all Estonians had to go to work there. The final result is that the strawberry growers have suffered irreparable damage because the harvest could not be collected. How can you believe your words in this board that it should guarantee the Estonians jobs and businesses will not be harmed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U229	But the bill is not a question of belief, the bill is a matter of adoption and its implementation and enforcement. This has nothing to do with faith.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U230	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U231	Thank you. Of course, we could argue for a long time about the content and objectives of this draft, but I understand that you are not very interested in what Mr Kivi asked of you. You had even tougher speeches at that meeting. I understand that families are different for you. Some families are the ones who learn, and others are the ones who live together somewhere, and for God's sake, don't let them get together. But I am asking which countries are, in your opinion, not the European Union, but the third countries from which people can come to study in Estonia, and which countries are those from which they cannot come. Maybe you'll give us an exhaustive list so we can find out which countries universities can target.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U232	Thank you. Very nice, yes, very nice. Towards the concentration camp, you will pave the way, the Reform Party will pave the way towards the concentration camp with your hate speech law, which you passed on yesterday or the day before yesterday. This is paving the way for concentration camps. I have nothing to do with concentration camps. The Reform Party paves the way for a silent era and a silent era for concentration camps. That was the answer to the incriminating part of your question, which was not a question but a comment. Now the question is what these countries are like. Estonia does not place its borders on the citizens of any country. If you have not understood this by reading this bill, then it is a shame. But it's never too late to start the thought process. Turn it on and read the bill again. Estonia will not lock its borders before the citizens of any country. Estonia will, however, take the conditions of arrival, employment and study of students and workers from outside the European Union under stronger and more precise control. That's the content of the bill. If it's hard to understand, I can't help.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U233	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U234	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Helme! The Eastern Partnership programme has been going on for years and, through it, Estonia has partially carried out its foreign policy objectives. One part of this programme is inviting students to Estonia from countries where it is important to get a view of the functioning of Western society. Among these countries are Ukraine, Georgia, Armenia, Azerbaijan and Belarus. Estonia has offered them this opportunity. In order for them to have such an opportunity, they have, of course, been able to use a scholarship, they have been paid a scholarship, they have not had to pay tuition fees. § 2 of this draft concludes this possibility. The payment of the EaP grants in this form is no longer possible under your proposal. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U235	I would say that any exchange programmes will continue, all Erasmus and other exchange student programmes will continue. This is absolutely not about exchange students and free learning for exchange students. This has nothing to do with this, this is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U236	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U237	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Helme! At the beginning of your speech, you said that Estonia has become a destination country for migration. I think with this draft we are taking a long step towards Estonia becoming the source of migration. The message that comes out of here is one: talent is not welcome; rather, it is a kind of repulsive attitude. Obviously, you have not met with universities, obviously you have not met with a student representation who has all seen that this draft is clearly discriminatory and does not help to solve any problem. When I looked at the objectives of the draft, which, while in the explanatory memorandum, are other than those that you read before, it is first stated that the aim is to correct the rules of employment, taking into account the economic and labour market developments. How does this bill contribute to a changed employment relationship and to attracting talent?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U238	We've probably read completely different drafts. This bill does not prevent the arrival of any talent in Estonia. How do you know that? Every talent can come to Estonia under certain conditions and these conditions are listed in this bill in a clear and unambiguous way: please come to Estonia to study properly, learn properly, do not fall out of university, ensure that you have the money to support yourself, whether that money comes from your relatives, whether that money comes from your own savings, or whether that money comes from a bank loan or that money comes from somewhere else, I don't know, sponsors, scholarships. Please, talent, come and learn! But it is not the case that students from all over the world come here and expect Estonia to pay us for our studies, we are talents, which means that in two months' time we will drop out of the university. We read different drafts. You're reading a bill, I don't know, it's probably born in the back of a Reform Party somewhere, and I'm reading the bill that we worked out.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U239	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U240	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Mr. Helme! Although you answered Hanno Pevkur's question, for the first time in your life, as if you had thought that you should not come from a country, you yourself mentioned in the introductory speech that the purpose of this draft was to put an eye on or to slow down people coming from risk countries. I want to ask you very specifically what these risk countries are. For example, is Sweden a country of risk, or is there another? But be very specific now, give us a list of the risk countries we need to protect ourselves from.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U241	These areas on the planet Earth, where terrorism, but not only terrorism, but also human smuggling, drug smuggling, illegal arms trafficking, are known to all of us. I'm not going on this slippery road, so I'm not going to start counting the individual states from this remote control, and then I'm going to get protest letters from some embassy or I don't know where yet. I don't count them. I also said in the Commission when I presented the draft that we have other bodies to do so, and I suggested that (as far as I am concerned, this recommendation has been even heard) meet representatives of some of our organisations who would explain their views, their experience, their knowledge of the countries at risk, their citizens and their communities in Estonia. Please, you can also do this by group. I am absolutely certain that our responsible officials will come and tell you in more detail without creating any social aziotage.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U242	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U243	Thank you. Mr. Helme! This is not the first time that you do not orient yourself in the drafts and the basic laws of your administration. If we are talking about which talent is not welcome in accordance with this bill, then for example an external student breastfeeding a child, if there is another parent, cannot come to Estonia because according to this bill, he cannot take his child with him. My question is about children's rights. In accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, all administrative decisions must give priority to the interests of the child. In a situation where another parent may exist and participate in raising a child, but staying with a child is not in the best interests of the child, in what way is this provision or the provisions that concern this subject in this draft compatible with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U244	They are exactly in line with this, as the Republic of Estonia has signed these conventions. In all cases, and this is very important, I will once again anticipate all kinds of incriminating questions. There is a procedure for applying for a visa in the Republic of Estonia, a procedure for applying for a residence permit, a procedure for applying for a work permit. All people who cannot come here as part of a mobility can apply for a visa, a residence permit and everything else in accordance with the other rules laid down in the laws of the Republic of Estonia. That is the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U245	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U246	Thank you. Nationally thinking Estonians have recently learned to be very warm about Ukrainians. It has been a very strong incentive here that Russia's official policies annex, occupy and demonise them. It's gone the other way with you. This is also what one of the leading channels in Europe has just asked you: why are you so awfully disturbed by the Ukrainians? Please tell me how it's happened to you like this. In general, members of the government should have taken the view that the Ukrainians are a suffering nation, that they should be integrated in Estonia, sent to Estonian schools and helped this nation during their difficult times. Describe how such a repulsive and hateful attitude has been born in your head.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U247	Well, you sure know how to see my soul and my brain. Hateful attitude, stop talking like that. How many million should we accept and integrate? How many million? Perhaps someone in this Chamber on the opposition side is saying: how many million immigrants, foreign workers, whatever name we give them, should Estonia accept, so that you are satisfied? How many million? Tell me the number, then I know, then I'll tell you if it's acceptable to me or not. If we're talking about 1000, that's one thing. If we're talking about 100,000, that's different. When we're talking about temporary labor, that's one thing. When we talk about a labour force that comes temporarily but stays permanently, that is the third thing. That's what this bill does. Although you stubbornly refuse to admit that this bill is working on it, and you talk about some kind of hatred, and I don't know... I wish I could take my emotions off in that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U248	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U249	Thank you. In the explanatory memorandum to this draft, I read that the draft has two main objectives. And then the broader goal is to help achieve national targets in a constantly changing environment, taking into account global and regional processes. What are the national objectives that you are pursuing with this draft in a changing environment?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U250	The national objective is laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the Constitution says what is the purpose of the Estonian state. The national objective is to ensure that Estonia remains a nation state as it is today, not becoming a target country for migration to the extent that the survival of the Estonian state may be damaged. That is the main objective.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U251	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U252	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Helme! In your introductory speech, you said that the need to submit a draft came from the fact that Estonia has reached such a high level of development and there is a high quality of life here. My question is whether this bill will eliminate the quality of life and the level of development of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U253	I do not see any logic in this matter at all. What are we going to liquidate? We're eliminating cheap labour from taking the work away from the locals. Yeah, that's what we're trying to eliminate. We are trying to ensure that it is not possible to exploit cheap labour to abuse competitive advantages. We want to establish compliance with the wage criterion. We want to establish that we know who is coming here, what purpose is coming here and how long it will be. If this is a very xenophobic and criminal objective, then we have very different concepts. As far as welfare is concerned, the more cheap labour we have, which often also works blackly, the worse our life will be.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U254	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U255	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. As this draft also amends the Law on Higher Education, I ask this question: were the heads of higher education institutions also involved in this round of coordination and what views did they express during the drafting of this law? Can you bring up one?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U256	There was no coordination circle as such. Wasn't for a very conscious reason. The reason was that a political agreement is needed to make these things happen. With infinite coordination, we would not get anywhere, because it is clear that different universities have completely different approaches. Different universities also have completely different international goals. We have a university that rips off the belly button to get to the top 100 universities in the world and is prepared to make all kinds of concessions. We have universities with more modest ambitions in this respect. This is not about universities. The question is, once again, that the state needs to know who is and who is working on its territory, for what reason they are here, whether they are here legally, whether they are doing legal work or doing criminal business. The state needs to know that. And in order for the state to know better, this bill is needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U257	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U258	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question, too, is driven by this same round of coordination. To my surprise, I did not find any comments from this round of coordination, as well as the views of those affected by this draft. Does this ignoring position concern only higher education institutions, or did you also ignore entrepreneurs, including start-ups and others who might be affected by this draft? I think it would be a completely incomprehensible and complete precedent if there was one draft, for which coordination as such is not deemed necessary. I have a request that, if there was coordination, for example, if it was the Chamber of Commerce or the Confederation of Employers or, for example, start-ups, we only read from Äripäev that Martin Villig, a highly respected entrepreneur, said that they found that several proposed changes to the law would unfairly harm all companies recruiting top specialists, then would you say, for example, did you ignore Martin Villig's position and is this a general new feature in the government or is it some kind of mistake?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U259	Thank you. These views have been published here and there and in a third place. We also took these views into account at all times when drafting the draft. But once again, if we had initiated some sort of literally water check on this bill, we wouldn't have gotten anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U260	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U261	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns values. We read all the time in the media that EKRE actually stands up for families and family is like a very important value, but you come before us with a bill that says that family life can live in the country of origin when a foreigner returns. Maybe it's not really family value for foreigners who come here. How do you explain this contradiction? And how do you explain what the right family is and which one isn't?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U262	Once again, family members can apply for stay in Estonia under other laws. That's one. Secondly, the students who come here are largely young and are not family people. Thirdly, they are here temporarily, they are here for a short time, they can be visited and they can visit their country. It's not like they're walled in a cell somewhere and three or no one can get out for years, and no one can get in there. It's not like that. It's another one of those euthanized approaches that now the family's been flushed down somewhere. No, it's not. Family members can visit Estonia, students can visit their homeland. Students stay here temporarily, and most of them are not family people. We see that bringing family members here is being abused and that it must be stopped, it must be brought under control. That's what this bill does.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U263	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U264	Thank you! As a father, you will probably understand that 270 days from 30 April 2022 is the time when the parent is separated from the child, or let's say the other way around, the child is separated from the parent. When we talk about a short-stay visa and bring back into this game the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, with which, by the way, 193 countries have joined the world, Estonia among them, and also the so-called risk countries that you did not list, while we have committed ourselves as a country to using these words in a positive, humane and fast way to ensure family reunification, how do we comply with this convention from the children's perspective, but also from the parents' perspective?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U265	We are not breaking this convention because these people are not here permanently, these people are here temporarily. Let's take another example. For example, an American soldier goes to Afghanistan, is on a mission for nine months. So should he take the family with him, live in the barracks with his children and his wife, or how to take it? Is this also a violation of human rights? Or we could take people on expeditions somewhere. We take sailors who go somewhere, drive from Tallinn to Manila, are away for months. Should they take their family with them? It's the kind of eulogy we're not going to get very far with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U266	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U267	Thank you very much. Good Minister, I have a question about the figures to get some clarity and perhaps to the public to say something different. It is customary for us to know, which is very much cultivated, that our immigration is very low, that we have a quota of 1314 people it was this year, and we cannot talk about great migration. At the same time, we know that under the Aliens Act we have 17 exceptions. We know that people come from the European Union, they come, they come, they go, we cannot control it, and it is unlimited. We know that this year, we had temporary work permits issued at 20,000 or 30,000. Growth is expansional. Here's the question, also numerical. Is it possible to get an overview of the number of immigrants from third countries to Estonia this year, the size of it last year and the total size of it? Like I said, temporary workers are 20,000. So how many of them are in total?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U268	Well, I do not have this current statistics for 2020 at the moment, because, firstly, the year has not ended, secondly, this year is exceptional and is exceptional in relation to corona. Corona, as you know, has collapsed both the tourism sector and the aviation sector, but has also put a very effective brake on all forms of migration, including labour migration. That's why I have the 2020 numbers... I can see if I have anything. I have something. I can tell you for the sake of statistics. Compared to 2016, when existing short-term work permits were 3751 on 1 January 2019, there were 18543 valid entries in the short-term employment register, and there were 32233 registrations of short-term work by the end of 2019. You can see that growth has been colossal. If someone says that but all these people are here for the short term and they're going away, that's the problem, that's not for the short term, that's not going away. They extend their stay, bring their families here. We have virtually no control over migration, and that is the problem. 32000 people are not a marginal number of people. [[A voice from the hall.]] Registered, but how much do we have unregistered, how many people have arrived in Estonia without a visa? (Voice of the floor. Manager: "Shh! ") There are also tens of thousands of them. We have a serious problem with controlling migration, and you resisted it. It doesn't make any sense. I understand you're in opposition, and you're gonna have to throw sticks in your mouth. But, dear friends, this is the destruction of your own country. Don't you see that? This is the destruction of your own country! [[A voice from the hall.]] Yeah, Jürgen Ligi knows best, of course, he's from another planet. But I'm on this planet and this country. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I want this country to be a country I got to know when I was a kid, and it's been going on so far. So here are the numbers. If you want, I can also get you numbers for the so-called exotic countries. For example, we have developed such fine communities as Cameroon, Nigeria, Bangladesh, Ghana, United Arab Emirates, Thailand, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Malaysia. These are communities that did not exist a few years ago, which have suddenly, like from underground, jumped out and grew very fast. I understand that Jevgeni Ossinovski is in a jesting mood, I don't know, maybe he's been breathing laughing gas behind his mask, but there's really nothing funny about it. So the numbers show: the growth is very high and very fast and something needs to be done about this growth. Otherwise, we're gonna bury it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U269	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U270	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mart Helme, I'm gonna help you set the focus a little bit on the other corner, and I'm gonna ask you another question. At the meeting with representatives of universities, everyone similarly argued that excessive regulation for vague purposes would not help any party. Any tightening of the rules is not good in this situation and sends a very strong, unnecessary signal, because this cluster law concerns a much wider picture than these few targeted points here, the whole economy and other aspects. Instead, state aid is needed in this place, for example, how to find the right candidates in attractive markets and find out how to get these candidates here, and what would be the best and most clear common strategy for this purpose. Please give some positive examples of what this positive plan would be.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U271	What must be the positive plan for this draft? This bill takes control of uncontrolled processes. This draft has no positive objectives in this sense. I'll get some numbers again. 12% of our students are currently of foreign origin. 12% - is this much or little for Estonia? Again: beauty is in the eye of the viewer. I think it's a lot. I think this percentage could be 5 or 6 and that would be totally okay. I do not think that Estonian universities must be closed, that there must not be any foreign students here, that there must not be any foreign languages, say, especially the English language curriculum. I don't think so. But I think the processes must be directing, verifiable. I will also give you an example of this. I do not dare to tell you this part of the time during which we have spent 3.5 million euros to advertise Estonian universities in the world. I dare not say whether this has been happening for one or more years. Aadu Black has come here, and maybe he can say the answer. But we've spent millions coming to study with foreign students. I ask whether it is reasonable to spend the millions that could be spent on promoting research, launching projects, implementing research results into the economy. I am not very convinced that this money spent on hunting foreign students has been spent very sensibly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U272	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U273	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister of the Interior! You answered my colleague Signe Kivi some time ago or expressed concern that you were often misunderstood, and then you talked about how you were dating, knocking on students' heads and appreciating their knowledge. That's what I got scared of. Just in case, I'm gonna ask no one to misunderstand you. As Minister of the Interior, please explain how this works in the Republic of Estonia. Is there really one person's right, or who has the right to go, to knock someone else's head against his head and to judge him? And who are you to say that you are dating, knocking people on the head and judging them?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U274	A provocative, stupid and inappropriate question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U275	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U276	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'll get a few facts. Last year, in the academic year 2018/2019, 85% of students from Estonia worked and 53% of foreign students worked. I present here the fact that foreign students working in Estonia paid taxes to the Estonian economy, the Estonian state, which is actually significant. I would like to give you examples: the income tax was 2.4 million and the social tax was 5.6 million. Can't say these people are coming and doing something bad to our country. I want to ask you this: do you think that we are taking a student from Estonia and a student coming from abroad are prohibited from working?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U277	The student must first of all study. That's clear. (Voice of the floor: "But how does he manage himself? " How does he manage? But I described how he manages himself: scholarship, support, sponsoring. A student doesn't have to work. The personal question is a student from Estonia. He's probably got family support here. He's got community support here. Students from Estonia have a completely different background system. If a student comes from a third world, he must have taken into account that in this foreign country he has a residence permit for study purposes, he has been granted a residence permit for study purposes and he comes here to study. No one's gonna stop him from working either, but he's gonna have to study here first, and if working causes him to drop out of college, he's gonna have to leave here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U278	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U279	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister! Estonia's major universities have worked for years to ensure that their competitiveness is high, and talent has been attracted to it. You said that 11% of Estonian students are foreign students and this is too high a percentage. For example, in Britain, where there are very many very good international universities, almost half of the students are international students. I find it really hard to believe that the Ministry of Education and Research at its heart supports this bill. I'm sure college isn't. But my question is, how do you know the Ministry of Education and Research will evaluate this bill? Judging from the press, I don't think they support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U280	The political agreement between coalition partners does not support your opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U281	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U282	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You tried to turn my first question into a question of faith, but I just gave you an example that you and the Minister for Rural Affairs are not fulfilling your goals and promises. No one went to work in the country, the crops stayed in the field, and the damage was done. As one of the leaders of this agenda, you should certainly feel moral responsibility for the fact that the state, supporting these companies also with investments, will suffer significant losses and this is linked to your clear policy. But if we have asked in the Committee on Rural Affairs about temporary agency workers, how you deal with it and how you get an overview of it, then we have not received any answers. You're dealing with a visible subject right now, but what is really invisible and causes much more damage, you don't want to deal with it. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U283	No, you've got it all wrong. In June, we approved two draft laws here, at least one of which dealt with temporary agency labour, temporary agency labour control, wage criteria and the definition of employer's obligations. So it's been dealt with. We haven't missed anything here. As far as the crop remained in the field, the crop remained in the field because of the weather, not because of the labor force. I understand you disagree with me, but I don't agree with you either.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U284	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U285	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The Council of Rectors has stressed the following amendments to the draft Law on Higher Education: First, foreign students are part of Estonia's national talent policy. Secondly, cooperation with countries and universities is supported by scholarships and the provision of free study places. Thirdly, universities have the incentive to keep the number of free study places low and to reduce these places even without amending the law, as allowed by the administrative contract. Fourthly, the priorities of the Estonian labour market are important for universities. And fifthly, the speed of change and the lack of inclusion are not good academic practice. Why didn't these views come to you? Why did you go on the road to amending the Law on Higher Education without consulting universities?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U286	Because it is very simple: all agreements, all memoranda, all other such documents must work within the framework of the laws of the Republic of Estonia. If laws reveal gaps that indicate that certain changes are needed to enable the state to better target and control what is happening on its territory, then all these agreements, memoranda and other matters must be subject to amendments to the law. In this case, that's what we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U287	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U288	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Mart Helme! I'm a little surprised at how squeaky you are here to answer us. I asked you risk countries, you didn't want to tell me who they were. As soon as some foreign journalist asks you something, he'll get a long-range answer, but there's nothing here. I'll try again. Question two. Immigration pumps are our colleges, I get it. But I'll make sure there's a list of all the colleges and how many foreign students there are. I don't know which of these colleges is the immigration pump right now. I see four students studying science, mathematics and statistics at Tallinn University. Horse thieves are also taught there, but they have not been numerically listed. But is there a criterion where it goes that there is an immigration pump? 10 or 100 or 1,000? Is there a pump dimension?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U289	Yeah, it's the pump dimension, the pump dimension is the numbers. The numbers say that we currently have about 3,000 foreign students. I'll see if I've got any statistics on interruptions here. I remember that about 10% of them will be interrupted and a large part of them will no longer leave Estonia. If we take things cumulatively, not only by giving us an estimate of the moment, but over the years it already makes up many, many thousands of people, which we also see in street pictures. That's the immigration pump we're talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U290	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U291	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Helme! I'm very concerned about your response to the fact that tens of thousands of illegal people are here...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U292	I didn't say that, I was talking about people in the short-term employment register.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U293	Please don't interrupt when I ask! You said there were tens of thousands of illegal people here. I guess the Minister of the Interior won't be able to do his job and lose control. But I'll come back to my first question. You weren't sure what bill I was looking at. I have studied Bill 241, and it is now its first reading. I hope you have it, too. I'm gonna get a chart out of here. You were talking about the huge families coming here and the huge number of people. Table 16 (I say it would be easier for you to look): In 2019, 231 members of the family had been invited, 1.5 people per inviteor on average. It's not exactly a colossal number, and I'm sure it's pretty far from the million. Education and higher education people have said that diversity is equal to competitiveness. Mr Helme, why are you fighting against the competitiveness of Estonian higher education?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U294	I won't fight it. Once again, the doors of our universities are all open to the citizens of the European Union, and there are no restrictions here; we have free movement of labour, services and goods. I think there are a lot of talent for a 500-million-dollar European Union. I think it should be enough for our universities. If you bring out here that, well, it's just some kind of 100 or don't know how much, then once again: all the numbers need to be put in perspective, all things take place in their right place in the long run. This year there will be 130 people, next year there will be 140 people, the next year will be 120 people. And that's how these people gather. These people will also retain the right to bring their family members here, get married, have children here next year and the year after. That's how these communities grow. After all, I have said from the beginning that we have developed self-proclaimed communities that live their lives without integration, which are not interested in Estonian language or culture. Well, go ask them if they know who Kalevipoeg or Lembitu is. Do they? I'm afraid I don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U295	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U296	Thank you. Mr. Helme! The perception of reality is not significantly influenced by the social context. I'm sure the world knows esoterics, esoteric groups, religious fanatics who have come to the conclusion that how is it possible that I'm from this planet, but everyone else seems to be from somewhere else. It's happening, indeed. It was just an explanation for how you might feel that you're from here, but everyone else is from elsewhere. My second question concerns the amendment to the regulation of your seasonal workers and its interaction with Article 23 of the Seasonal Workers Directive. Indeed, the directive requires equal treatment of seasonal workers compared to local workers. In what way do you see this pay criterion practically being applied to a specific company where a seasonal worker comes from a third country? In what way will the validity of both the directive and Estonian laws be ensured in this case in terms of salary?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U297	Very simple: in the way of monitoring compliance with the law, in the way of reporting. After all, everyone has to submit declarations to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board and it shows how much labour, how much temporary labour, what kind of salary they are paid and what kind of social contributions and other taxes are paid on it. Very simple. I don't know what that has to do with anything. We have very good business reporting, I see no question at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U298	Jürgen Ligi, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U299	Thank you. I asked you first where your unfriendlyness to the Ukrainians came from. You denied it and said it was my invention. But this has been the case in so many of your speeches. That's what the German leading channel Deutsche Welle asked you. This is not my fiction, it is his observation of your speeches. You responded to him, this is a typical xenophobic cliché, that the Ukrainians take the job away from the Estonians (though they are clearly doing the jobs that the Estonians do not want to do) and that they tend to go to Russian schools. This certainly is not an appropriate answer for a member of the government, because our policy is to direct foreign-languages to Estonian schools. Try again to answer this question from Deutsche Welle. What do you have against the Ukrainians, what is your problem with the Ukrainians in Estonia? And don't talk to me about millions like you told me before. These few thousand have created this image for you that you despise them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U300	Yeah. Well, let's see how much they want to come to work in Estonia when they're registered here. Let's see how many people want to hire if they have to pay the average wage of the sector in Estonia, as this bill requires. I think that's gonna change the situation. It is likely that if they do not flow to Estonia as a mass of black labour, my attitude will improve immediately. I have no xenophobic attitude towards Ukrainians. I really like the country of Ukraine. I have been there many times, the Ukrainians are enormously hospitable, better borscht than there is nowhere to be found in Ukraine, especially with white vodka when it is frosty. That's just great! I have nothing against Ukraine, but I am opposed to the fact that we do not have exhaustive control of this, they are paid black wages and they are creating a situation where we have turbulence in the labour market and locals cannot compete with them equally for jobs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U301	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U302	Thank you. Dear waitress, Mr. Minister of the Interior! You dare to say, dare to explain and admit, but do not insult Members. Maybe it's appropriate to apologize. But now to my question. Seasonal work with this draft is intended to be limited to 183 days and is mainly caused by COVID and unemployment in Estonia. Having been in contact with a number of entrepreneurs, I know that this is being highlighted as a major problem of getting an employee, they will be able to train him, but soon he will have to go. This worsens the situation of employers. Please explain why we want to persecute our employers and make their situation worse. The second question is that if we shorten this time, we will actually force more people to move. We still need a job, but the person can be less here, the controlled person with the virus control, who's healthy, and new people are coming back. Travel restrictions are also justified by the need to promote the spread of the virus. Why do we act the other way around?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U303	Well, you probably have a very poor idea of the virus at all. We have a much better idea in the government and in the Coronary Committee, which discusses the matter twice a week. We have achieved this now, I think, with regard to the so-called COVID-19, that Estonia is a complete pioneer here. We have already launched a series of sewage studies in spring, which has produced a very good result in the mapping of the disease. We have taken a very good tactic: the siege of disease outbreaks, not the closure of society like in the spring. It's all given a pretty good effect. So here we have made progress. But as far as the limitation of work is concerned, the reason is very simple: in order to prevent us from having a contingent who works here for a certain time, a short time goes beyond the limit and then comes and works exactly the same way. We do not want these people to become permanent here. We want them to be a temporary labour force that will not remain permanently in Estonia. Very simple.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U304	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U305	Thank you very much. Good minister! At the beginning of your report, you said very rightly that it is important for the state to control who comes here, who is here and who goes here. After all, this is not an issue of openness or closure, as it is being tried to show, but it is a normal functioning of the state when it controls it. The question is that, as we know, we have thousands and thousands of students from foreign backgrounds here, for whom we also know that statistically about 10% of them interrupt their studies. Does our country have control over what happens to this 10%? So what are they gonna do, go home, or are they gonna be here? Is there some kind of control or some kind of information?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U306	Unfortunately, on many occasions, the state loses contact with them, loses control of where they are, what they do. This is the situation we want to avoid.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U307	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U308	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Minister! You said that in this draft, it was a political decision not to send this draft to the coordination circle, not to involve those parties that are directly affected by it. I hope you know that you have been working as a minister for quite some time now, that there is such a thing as good practice of inclusion, which says in point 1: "Governmental authorities involve stakeholders and the public in shaping decisions concerning them, in order to ensure the best possible quality and legitimacy of decisions. " That's point number one. My question is: have you politically agreed that the good practice of inclusion, which has been in force for years, no longer applies?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U309	We have agreed that the coalition's parties, through their ministries and ministers, will take feedback and map out the problems that exist in this area. At the Ministry of the Interior, I can tell you, the support from the Police and Border Guard Board for this bill is very strong, because it gives them the opportunity to do their job significantly more effectively than before. We have also received feedback through the Ministry of Education and Research. Yeah, we know there's criticism. But we also know that universities are capable and willing to adapt. Employers have also provided feedback. We know that they have problems, but we also know that they are able to adapt to these problems and change their existing comfort zone. So I don't see a big problem here, like nobody knows what we did, and there's no feedback. There's been a feedback. But it has not been, let's say, in the form of an official coordination circle, but it has been direct contacts.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U310	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U311	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister! In your introduction, you said that the purpose of this draft is, among other things, to avoid undesirable effects of learning and labour migration on public policy. Public order under Law Enforcement Act is a state of society which ensures compliance with the law and the protection of legal rights and subjective rights of persons. I'm asking for clarification. What are the undesirable effects on public order that you mean exactly? What goals does this bill pursue?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U312	We've seen foreign workers do bear tricks from time to time. They've been sent out, they've been driving cars around, and they've been doing other things. It's also a public order. Now, there's more, and it's more critical. We may have such a naive notion that everyone lives very friendlyly on this planet Earth together. Unfortunately, that is not true. Large communities from countries with conflict between different communities will potentially bring these conflicts to our territory. We have a Nigerian community here, but we don't know if they're yorubas, howls, ibos or who. But some of them are there Muslims, some Christians. In the early 1970's, they waged a very bloody civil war of genocide. How can we be sure that by the growth of these communities, this hatred will not be brought to our territory, and this hatred will not be realized here? We can also give an example in greater detail. Ukraine and Ukraine-Russian relations. We do not know what kind of conflict can come in imported form to us in Estonia if these communities are not under our control and are growing indefinitely. These are two examples of the public, security and order.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U313	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U314	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Helme! Let me just give you an example. Currently, a young Chinese man with a master's degree from the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre will sing in the Estonian choir in spring. I don't know if you went knocking on his head, that he had a chance to run and get a choir to sing. But it's a statement. Now to the question. I understand that you have written this bill in your office and have not discussed it with anyone, but you have used direct contacts, just like Freeh's agreement. When I listen to your answers in this Chamber, it seems to me that you do not particularly want to discuss this draft with the Riigikogu. My question is whether we can expect such a draft from your office next or from your personal office, that we will also lose the Riigikogu. I don't care what to discuss with him or coordinate with him.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U315	I have nothing to say about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U316	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U317	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! I listened to your previous answers and introductions. I have an ear, and I agree that there should be no persons staying here illegally in Estonia. I'm sure it's under your command that people should deal with people like this. It is strange to me that the method used to find and remove these people who are illegally present here is to ban or make it extremely difficult for all people to come here. In order to get one, ten or a hundred will be punished. That sounds weird. Aren't you in the comfort zone?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U318	I don't understand what you're saying. Who's being punished? Who will be deprived of the right to come to Estonia? Who is deprived of the right to study in Estonian educational institutions? No one gets that right. Getting that right will be arranged. When a student completes his/her studies, interrupts his/her studies, falls out of the university, he/she is obliged to leave Estonia, it is elementary. It's completely elementary. No one is forbidden to come to Estonia, no one is forbidden to study in Estonia, but it must be done in accordance with our conditions. And that's it. Nobody gets pushed out.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U319	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U320	Thank you. It is still quite amazing to hear an attacking tone from your mouth to the Riigikogu during the debate on such a bill, when you say: "You want to tear down the Estonian state, but I will save it. "I think that your statements about the hatred of minorities, but now also against foreigners, are a clear threat to Estonia's security. If we think, even as an example, that the US Ambassador in Poland at the beginning of this month said that similar political speeches in our good neighbouring country, Poland, may lead to the United States also having to limit its future military presence in a country that hates minorities who hate foreigners, then there is a direct link to the security of the country. I think that these statements, also in the process of dealing with this draft, both here and in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, merely point to the fact that you obviously do not understand how dangerous you are playing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U321	I'm not playing any game. I do not represent the Republic of Poland. I think, not think, I know that the Republic of Estonia has suffered the greatest damage with its long-term policy from the Reform Party, it has caused people to leave here, relaxed the conditions of immigration, relaxed the conditions of learning mobility. All of this was done by you during your long period of power. Now we turn it all back and make Estonia a properly functioning, law-based country instead of a liberal conglomerate. If you don't like it, there's nothing to do, you don't. [[Voices in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U322	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U323	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The circle of people who are like despised is growing with each of the following questions and your answers: universities and university rectors have done the wrong thing, entrepreneurs are in the comfort zone. I no longer understand who is actually serving the Estonian state. In my opinion, this is an assessment of entrepreneurs when you said that Estonian entrepreneurs are in a comfort zone, an insult to them. Why do you use such words at the address of entrepreneurs? That's why I'm still asking. I see that this bill has a very strong economic impact, it has a very strong negative economic impact. I will still ask you very directly, although you have already replied a few times: did you really not consider it necessary to coordinate it or to ask for an opinion, for example, from the Chamber of Commerce, from the Confederation of Employers and, for example, from organisations representing start-ups? Didn't you really ask for their opinion on this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U324	I would say that this bill has a very positive economic impact. This economic impact is reflected in the fact that Estonia must become a science-based and high-tech economy from a low-cost labour importing country. If entrepreneurs do not want to invest in it and instead invest in cheap labour, there is a comfort zone, and from this comfort zone this bill must shake them out. I'm not insulting anyone. I haven't attacked anyone in person. I realize I'm being attacked personally all the time in this hall. Thanks for that. Of course I'm big and beautiful. But by the way, you know what, Japan was traditionally not today in Japan, because there is a very big difference between high-tech Japan and old Japan, the custom of taking Buddha's shape in front of the queue, putting a piece of paper in the mouth where you had written your wishes, and then spit on the statue of Budda. When the desire got stuck to it, the wish came true. I have this feeling that you spit on me, too, but they fall down all the time. It doesn't go well, there's nothing to do. Such a little lyrical digression. I could, of course, tell you why I'm in politics at all. Very simple. Do you know the difference between Hinjaana Buddhism and Mahjaana Buddhism? In the Breathing Buddhism, monks are engaged in personal redemption, reaching Nirvana, and in the Budism of Nirvana, the one who has gained his personal redemption vows that he will not leave the chain of rebirth until there is even one suffering creature in the world. He's reborn to work on making the world a better place. I'm not going out of politics either because I'm like a jaana in Buddhism. I am in politics because I see that Estonia needs to be led to the right path from which it has deviated as a result of previous governance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U325	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U326	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good minister! It is very nice to hear that there is at least one person in Estonia who does things right. But I'm coming to this bill. The clear line is how the current immigration situation, when coming here to work or study, is still extremely dangerous for the nation state, for security and, of course, for our future generations. Perhaps you can give us a number, for example, how many violations of the visa regime occurred in previous years and with what content? Can you tell us? I didn't find that in this bill's explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U327	Unfortunately, I don't have these numbers right now, but to a respected MP, we'd be happy to send statistics. There are many violations of the visa regime and those who violate the visa regime are caught both directly at the border and at the workplace. This shows once again how much problem we have with illegal work and illegal immigration. Last year, according to the Tax and Customs Board's calculations, we did not receive taxes of around EUR 16.5 million due to the use of illegal labour. Some of these numbers I'm taking from behind this ear right now, that's all I can remember, but I'm asking you to provide this statistics.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U328	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U329	Thank you. It seems to me that this bill is clearly out of anger in the wider sense. Let's look at the numbers that have been through this hall: two years ago, there were 7 to 8 million direct incomes from social and income tax received by the Estonian state due to the work of foreign students and from which the people of Estonia benefited. I believe it has reached about 10 million today, looking at the logical development. Listening to what you're saying, it sounds something like, yes, dear students from all over the world, you can come to Estonia, but you can't come to Estonia, but you can't work, you can't come to Estonia, but you can't be here with your family. If you look at this list, what kind of signal do you think it gives Estonia as a small country that wants to be open to the economy, but at the same time doesn't want to see anyone else here learn, work or live?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U330	Well, these are again such incriminating, contextual and, in fact, ripped out of content. But try to go to the United States to study in such a way that you do not go through all the juniper required for immigration. Try it! Let's see if we can make it. And then say that the United States is unfriendly to foreign workers and foreign students and does not want them to bully and demand that all forms be fulfilled and that certain conditions and laws be surrendered. Try it! Let's see what comes out. Nothing's gonna work. We do exactly what decent, self-respecting countries do. Under your leadership, Estonia was not a decent, self-respecting country.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U331	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U332	Thank you. For the first time, I hear that a self-respecting country must necessarily be narrow-minded, vicious and terrified...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U333	Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U334	...because of the 230 students' family members, millions will be integrated. When I asked you at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs what happened to them, as you said in a specific speech, of the tens of thousands of refugees who came here during the time of Estonia led by the Reform Party, you admitted that there were about 50 of them. So fear has big eyes, but I do not think it should be Estonia's leading narrative. But the message is more important than the details of this bill, of course. You give a clear signal that foreigners are not welcome in Estonia. My question is simple. Are companies that have created thousands of jobs and employ people from third countries welcome in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U335	First of all, I will respond to this accusation that we only have half a hundred refugees. Thank God we only have half a hundred refugees! But it is also one of the results of our party policy that there are so few here. You can drink poison to that. As far as these thousands of jobs are concerned, you are once again twisting the water out of where it is not possible to twist the water out. This bill doesn't stop anyone from coming to work. This bill wants employers to be law-abiding and to follow specific rules. This bill wants contractors to be law-abiding and to be guided by sound rules. It's incredibly hard for me to understand that you haven't understood. It is impossible for me to understand that you have read this bill and have not understood it. Please try to understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U336	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U337	Thank you, President of the sitting. Minister, I listen to you, and it looms to me that you are stuck in a very deep past, both in your words and in your mind, somewhere really, really far away. But I'm still asking about the comfort zone you're sitting in pretty hard and not bothering to find the people who've been staying here illegally and aren't leaving for some reason. Integration is also a question. Special programmes, Estonian-language schools and other things should be available to integrate people. According to my understanding, you have been seriously opposed to them. Why are you doing things through the keyhole?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U338	Firstly, you are currently dealing with the state budget of the Republic of Estonia for next year. It provides for a number of millions of integration; a number of millions are intended to prepare teachers, which have not been done for very long years on this scale, as is currently the case in this budget. So it's not true that we're not dealing with it. We're working on it, we're trying to integrate these people. But there's one very simple thing to understand. They say a drop of tar or douche can ruin the whole honey can. I do not really want to apply this comparison now on immigration, but the fact is that any environment has some kind of absorption capacity. The absorption capacity of the Estonian people is not infinite. We cannot afford completely uncontrolled and unlimited immigration. It should be clear to every person who thinks a little bit. No matter how useful it is for some entrepreneurs, we must try to find some balance here. In my opinion, this bill is trying to find this balance; in your opinion, it is not trying. You think it is xenophobic, but I think we are trying to find this balance with this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U339	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U340	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am a little embarrassed about my fellow Members who, here, say, do not address or want to discuss the substance of this draft, but are throwing out political slogans and phrases as well as disparaging sayings. But I still come to the content of the bill, which has been relatively little talked about here today. It is also the norm that an employer is obliged to pay a fee of at least 80% of the remuneration referred to in subsection 13 of this section to a seasonal worker. These are cases where the seasonal worker's position is a simple worker. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I asked you whether more stringent checks would be carried out so that it was not an envelope salary. Then you said yes to as much as possible. In my opinion, this should also lead to an increase in the salary of Estonian, or local, low-skilled workers, because there will be no more black pay. Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U341	This should, at least according to the draft idea, lead to local workers being employed instead of migrant workers for the same money. Why 80%? There was a debate on this and it was found that the unskilled worker should, however, receive somewhat less pay than, for example, an engineer or a foreman or a supervisor. That's why we left this toll in there so that the responsible person could be paid even more.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U342	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U343	Thank you, good Vice President of the Riigikogu! Good Minister of the Interior! I will specifically ask for this draft 241. A married couple living abroad, they have a child, both men and women become students in Estonia. They can come here as students. Where are they gonna leave their baby?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U344	Very simple: take it with them. That is, in principle, prescribed by law. They're taking it with them. They adapt here, file the relevant applications and applications at the Police and Border Guard Board, and of course they will receive a residence permit for this child here with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U345	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U346	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, I have listened to this debate here, and I am saying that I am disturbed by the description of foreign students. Is this conversation quite adequate, or is this description of the situation you are presenting to us? A few years ago, I had a pretty rare opportunity to study at the music academy for six years. There were many students from Asia at that time. Your description does not correspond to what I have personally experienced. I saw very talented students, and they didn't come here because we have a beautiful nature and a great country and great schools here, but because of their peaks, top talent, who are world-class faculty members. Nor did I notice that there were any conflicts and communities, nothing like that I could see. On the contrary, I experienced a respectful attitude toward our country and culture. Are you sure that the description you are giving us is adequate and true?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U347	I have not provided any descriptions, I have spoken of cases of abuse, which are sufficiently numerous. As far as the music academy is concerned, the music academy is somewhat different. The Music Academy has mainly dealt with the import of Chinese-born students who, as a general rule, do not stay here and who also have the level of discipline, the level of compliance is quite different from that of people from other parts of the world. So you have to look at the context differently in this sense. I'm not going to single out any country or any nationality, or they'll say again that I made some horrible hate speech, but it's quite clear that cultures, religiousism, the attitude to work, all these things are different. In the case of the Academy of Music, it is one and in the case of certain other institutions it is the other. I'm absolutely sure that if we take out the statistics from the music academy, we'll find breaks, departures, failures, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U348	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U349	Thank you. Dear waitress, Since you have used the term "state of risk" today and you have already been asked about this, I cannot fail to pay attention to it either. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also raised this issue. To be honest, it is a very dangerous road that you are going by when you very freely classify countries as risk countries in the world, especially when we are talking about countries outside the European Union. However, as I understand it, you have no reason to tell us what you qualify countries as risk countries. In doing so, you are, in fact, very clearly hating a very large part of the world in this context when you are talking about countries at risk. Or do you want to say, however, on the basis of which the Estonian Minister of the Interior identifies countries as risk countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U350	I repeat: I am not going to single out any countries. I have advised all committees and political groups of the Riigikogu, if they have any interest, to ask them to come and explain this matter by representatives of our respective bodies. Then you will hear what these risk countries are, you will hear what risks are potentially feared about them, what these communities are doing in Estonia, whether these communities are currently estimated to be dangerous or non-dangerous, and what perspectives are seen in certain developments. I am not going to scare anyone in this Chamber or give any kind of assessment to one, another or third country and its citizens.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U351	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U352	Thank you. Mr. Minister of the Interior! I'm sure this is a very diverse subject, but I did not understand it well when you said that the Reform Party has created some kind of liberal conglomerate over the years. Similarly, I tried to understand when you said that you were trying to balance the bill in this situation. What do you mean? In fact, the balance should come from the environment and the market situation. But you once said what could be the basis for this balance: creating the opportunity for locals to get low-paid jobs. The alternative is still to take away the opportunity and incentive from locals to learn and move on to jobs with a much higher salary. Am I to understand that this is the case that we will remain such a lagging country where locals work in low-paid jobs?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U353	On the contrary. The introduction of the pay criterion means that there is no point in employing any more people working for an envelope or some completely ridiculous salary from a third country. The average salary of a field means that if you have to pay it to an alien, it is also reasonable to pay it to the locals. So far, the local did not come to work because it was not acceptable for him to receive this salary, for the Ukrainian or for anyone in the third or fourth grade this salary in the envelope and for him to live in the shed was acceptable. At the moment, on the contrary, we are imposing higher demands on migrant workers and this gives the opportunity to go to work for this low-skilled contingent, which is now either going out of Estonia at all or declassifying. But this does not in itself mean that people should not have the incentive to go to work, learn, and develop themselves. There are many people who don't study, who don't graduate from a university that doesn't do lifelong learning. There are always and always will be. We can't shut them out of society either, so we'll turn them off, but we'll bring people from some third country to replace them for hunger pay, so, well, these are our Kükametsa-Kollas, they're the voters of the EKRE, let them be there then, but we'll conveniently bring in the migrant labour force here. On the contrary, we want our own low-skilled people, instead of migrant workers, to receive average wages in the areas where they are not going to work today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U354	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U355	Thank you. Good Minister, I'm quite frankly asking. Two people who are married are raising a child, they are foreigners, both can come to Estonia for studies. They have a child. Please tell me which point of this bill this child will be granted a residence permit. I want to know this point from this bill. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U356	This draft does not contain this point, but the laws of the Republic of Estonia allow you to apply for a residence permit, a permit to stay here on other grounds. This is it. No one is forbidden to come to Estonia, no one is forbidden to work in Estonia, no one is forbidden to study in Estonia. We're going to put this bill in order, we're not going to let it happen by itself. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U357	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U358	Thank you. One and a half years ago, Mart Helme said: "We also know very well that for years at the Music Academy, for example, there have been first - class students in the School of Children's Music from China who are literally struggling to squeal and dissipate the lecturers there so that they can do a little bit of good. " I am warmly pleased that, at least on this particular issue, it seems that your position has changed over time and with further facts. But my question is very simple, driven by one of your recent speeches. By paraphrasing it a little, I ask you this: how do you view foreigners in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U359	Yeah, well, that's the Orwell we're seeing here, mind crime. You didn't say, but you thought, "Fire!" You see, my friends, the music academy was full of squeaky and whirling foreign students, but it changed. It changed. This, by the way, also changed greatly as a result of this statement. After all, I have a lot of good acquaintances and family acquaintances there who said to me: "Thank God somebody said it, now maybe things will change. " And he did, and he did. As far as foreigners are concerned, it depends on an alien, as it depends on every person at all. Some people I like and some people I don't like. It's as simple as that. It's like that with all of us. Some people like Taavi Clothes, but others don't. See, one of them got married, but some of them didn't marry, did they? That's right. They say it's human chemistry.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U360	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U361	Mr. Minister of the Interior! My understanding is that any sectoral requirement, including the artificial increase in the average wage of this low-wage, less-skilled sectors, for foreigners or the introduction of this wage level will end badly. This ends with the average wage in the sector rising so high that it cannot be paid by locals and foreigners very much no longer. I am asking you if you have made economic models in your ministry, how much in the future there may be a shortage of labour in less skilled sectors. People just don't come or they can't go to work there because they're too high on demand.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U362	Yeah, we've done this analysis. The analysis shows that people do not get jobs in many sectors because they do not go because they are faced with competitors from third countries that are paid less or paid black and who accept working and living conditions that are not accepted by local people. Yeah, we've done this analysis. We have received feedback from the Police and Border Guard Board on the outcome of these inspections and inspections that they have identified. We know very well: there is a need to raise the average wage to an average wage that is not unreasonablely high, and in this case there is hope of filling these jobs with local people, because competitors who agree with working conditions and wages which, according to local people, are below all records will disappear.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U363	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U364	Good manager! Good waitress! I didn't mean to ask, but we're being watched by a lot of other people, and one person, a musician, called me. He heard Mr Sõerdi talk about his studies and said that the Chinese, of course, were talented and many. Well, there aren't too many of them when you look at the first ten countries where these people come from. But his concern was that they, even foreigners from third countries, these talented ones, take away from our musicians, as well as talented ones, job opportunities in these few theatres, etc. Is there any medicine?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U365	Look, no one's iron and iron gets tired. If the faculty has to do so, say, helping low-level students to do so, it tires. It's really exhausting. I've dealt with it myself if, after all, you didn't understand exactly what you were saying, because the language skills were practically nonexistent. It is very exhausting and the result is more than modest. While you're dealing with a student with proper preparation and motivation, he's not motivated to get into the Schengen area, but he's really motivated to gain knowledge and move on with this knowledge, it's a completely different thing. These are completely different things. It's amazing how they want us to let our universities down. That's what you want!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U366	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U367	My question concerns § 1731. If it has been so far that a residence permit granted for study can be cancelled if the required degree of study is not completed or interrupted, then the law is now amended so that the residence permit can be revoked if an alien has failed to comply substantially with his or her obligations under this or other law. So what are these laws? If it was very clear earlier that if he failed to comply with his learning obligations, who will now decide, in conclusion, what are the important laws that he might fail to comply with? And what is the significance of non-compliance?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U368	Yeah. This is the place of discretion and this discretion is exercised by the PBGB. The PBGB is based on the Aliens Act and information about a specific student or employee. That's it. It's a place of discretion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U369	Does Mr Ossinovski have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U370	Yeah, I have a procedural question. Mr President, the Minister of the Interior arrived today in his answers so far that he gave hints that he might be a bodhisatva. Consequently, what advice can the Board give to members of the Riigikogu, should we turn to him in future as His Holiness? It's culturally a bit of a stranger to us. The Minister of the Interior gave us some insight into these cultural peculiarities. But has the board discussed such questions that if someone has certain titles because of certain religious or cultural peculiarities, how should he be approached?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U371	The Bureau has not yet discussed such a matter. But of course, if the members of the Riigikogu so wish, the board will put it on the agenda and discuss it. Until then, I will not take any position on this. Siim Pohlak, question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U372	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Here a questioner spoke earlier, as if preventing the emergence of foreign communities and controlling immigration were something from the dark medieval or long ago. I am once quoting to my esteemed colleagues the description of what is happening in a European country in 2020, from yesterday's newspaper article, this paragraph: "At the same time, gangs have become so powerful that in many parts of the city where migrants are in most parts of the city, the movement languages lasting from 18 o'clock to the morning, which are obediently filled by the frightened inhabitants. According to the Swedish TV channel SVT, it is the districts of Järva, Rinkeby, Tensta and Husby located in the western part of the city (Stockholm, S. P.). In the past, such languages have also been established in Gothenburg, where gangs erected control posts to search all people moving around. " I am asking whether the old European countries have reached such a position with the support of a similar non-liberal immigration policy, represented today in this Chamber by the politicians of the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U373	If we take a historical perspective just here was the accusation that I live somewhere in the past, and indeed, I like the 19th century a little more than the beginning of the 21st century, conservative as I am, then after World War II there were practically no Islamic communities in Western European countries, practically no. Today we know that in different countries these communities already reach some half ten percent and more. Sociology, as far as I am concerned, says that integration of communities of foreign origin is becoming increasingly difficult when their percentage of the population exceeds 5%. We in Estonia know very well that integration is very difficult when the other community is very numerous, with its strong cultural background, with its strong identity. This is what has also happened in some Western European countries, where, indeed, the growth of communities from the colonial past or of otherwise migratory communities has exceeded a certain critical mass. They're starting to assert themselves. And always imposed on the account of someone, in this case on the account of the indigenous population.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U374	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I would like to ask for the second rapporteur to be Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Lauri Läänemets.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U375	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. I have to start by saying that, although there are no reasons, I have this feeling that I would like to apologize to you, Kalle Grünthal too. I'm sorry, just in case. What happened here may not have been what was supposed to be. But I'm trying to fix it, in the sense that I'm talking about what's in the law, and I'm not making it up myself. If this was not discussed in the committee or I do not know anything about it, I will tell you that I do not know or that was not discussed in the committee, so that you can get a realistic picture of this bill and then you can ask what it says later. It was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on Tuesday 13 October. The discussion lasted 2 hours and 13 minutes, for quite a long time. I can say in advance that we did not have time to discuss all the questions that have been heard in this Chamber today. But let's get started. I apologize in advance for making a relatively close review, not a superficial one, because I think it's necessary. Mr Grünthal began speaking in the committee. First of all, he was very pleased that the government had begun to liquidate the grey zone. He also asked about seasonal workers that if they were constantly checked, it would perhaps pave the way for paying their people normal wages in the sector. The answer came from ministerial officials that registration of short-term employment has increased 30 times, but the Police and Border Guard Board has not gained just as much resources for this. In short, this problem could actually be solved through, for example, the state budget. Kaja Kallas drew attention to family life, and his question was whether family life is only promoted by certain people, but it is not promoted by foreigners. We received the answer that working under a visa is temporary migration, which assumes that people will return to their country of origin, and therefore they will not be allowed to take their family members with them. In the case of studies, it is assumed that the alien will return and use the education received in his/her country of nationality. This reply immediately raised questions about how the indicators and objectives of the Estonian strategy for the internationalisation of higher education set out that 30% of foreign students graduating from master's and doctoral studies must work in Estonia after graduation. By the way, Estonia's goal is based on the strategy in force, rather than the fact that foreign students would come here and not all would leave here after graduation, i.e. they would still be working here. In principle, no concrete response was received to this strategy. Sorry, we did. The answer to the question was that this strategy will be in place until the end of this year, a new strategy will be put in place and the principles will be renegotiated in the preparation of the new strategy. The Commission realised that the principles of internationalisation of Estonian higher education could change. But it was said that an exception could certainly be made for people studying in Estonia on the basis of foreign agreements and for those specialties where foreign labour is needed. It was the Ministry of Education and Research's vision of the matter. In short, the Commission learned that we actually need exceptions and we also have quite a number of sectors where foreign workers are needed. That was the government's position at the table. The question then arose that this was an urgent matter and therefore no full coordination round had been made. In addition, there is no coordination with stakeholders or organisations. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs had received a large number of proposals and comments from stakeholders' associations. There are actually quite a lot of compelling arguments about why and how the draft could directly damage the Estonian economy. The question was what was so urgent about this draft that it was not possible to carry out the coordination round, as it should be. There was, of course, no water check in the Commission, but Mr Minister's answer was that his aim to resolve this situation, which has not been dealt with in previous decades, is urgent. I think we all know that Estonia's laws and how we should actually listen to and involve people and involve stakeholders do not come together in any way. We will also arrive at these things later, as a result of which very many Estonian workers will remain in a worse situation than foreign workers after this bill has been approved. That's what happens when you don't go along and hurry. There was already a debate in this Chamber on refugees. We stopped a little bit about how many refugees there are in Estonia, whether there are 10,000 or less, or what these numbers are. Indeed, as Taavi Rõivas said before in this Chamber, the minister replied that 50 people in Estonia are in the order of refugee status. Actually, to worry, I understand, there's no reason. Now the same thing that has already been heard and referred to in this Chamber. Marko Mihkelson pointed out that he had not heard the term 'risk countries' on migration issues when it comes to third countries. He pointed out earlier that risk countries were, for example, India, Ukraine, Belarus and so on. His question was where to read about this category and on the basis of which these categories would arise. The Minister's answer was that they would arise on the basis of practice. In his vision, these are primarily Islamic countries. People from Islamic countries have committed acts of terrorism, social unrest, crime in Western European countries. Another risk category is that you can see how conflicts in these countries can spread to Estonian territory through an increase in immigrant communities. We can all wonder whether Ukraine is an Islamic state and whether these conflicts, the attack of a foreign state or any other way through these workers can reach Estonia's territory. Marko Mihkelson, then Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, certainly proposed to refer this draft to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for an opinion, because in this context it is very likely to undermine the international reputation of the Republic of Estonia. There was still a question of where to read about this classification of how the countries of the world are judged in terms of their risk levels. Is it really if there is no classification in this country, a sense of gut, or the desire of one party to pursue its policy? We did not finally get an answer to that in the Commission. The question was about universities, about making foreign language learning pay. Where is the reverse desire of universities to teach free of charge, and whether an increase in the proportion of paid higher education, which is the aim of the state, could not be done for foreign students? We have received the answer that internationalisation has other objectives. In short, apart from making money, internationalisation has other goals. For example, some specialties in universities are those where only Estonians do not meet study groups, such as the specialty of plastic, wood and metal industries at Tallinn University of Technology. If only Estonians were to study there, this specialty should be shut down. Similarly, a master's degree in philosophy was introduced at the University of Tartu, where unfortunately there are no more students in Estonian. Of course, it was also mentioned that there are also problems in funding universities. Perhaps we all know that the state budget is currently being dealt with, that, in order to increase funding for higher education, as the state once agreed with universities, money has not yet been found. This is probably reflected in all the things that are being blamed on universities here. It was still a question of analysing the impact of the IT sector on why it has not been done. This analysis is very superficial, concise in this draft. We all see this when we take into account that all kinds of IT sector and start-ups associations have approached us and made observations that there are very many problems and that this can very much touch them. Why hasn't all of this been taken into account in the analysis? In this regard, we have received the answer that this is the place of political decisions and agreements and that IT specialists will not come here in such quantity that it should be regulated in some way and looked at in a separate impact analysis. It was also mentioned that the main problem is the seasonal workers, builders and milkers coming from Ukraine. So, with regard to the IT sector, this debate continued. Andrei Korobeinik said that a person currently working in the IT sector can come to Estonia with a visa and then apply for a residence permit. The IT sector is out of quota. Therefore, people working in the IT sector will probably not have problems if they can take the family with them immediately. But with the amendments to this draft, this opportunity will disappear, which means that the family can come to Estonia in an estimated six months. The IT sector still accounts for about 10% of Estonia's GDP. In addition, the Minister told us how the government has shaped its views, that a year and a half ago there were 20 unfilled jobs at the ICT Centre of the Ministry of the Interior, and there are no outstanding jobs there today. This means that the need for IT workers is actually decreasing, as efficiency increases. It was really interesting to find out in the Commission that the government is conducting analysis of the labour needs of the Estonian IT sector on SMIT. Another thing he pointed out was that teleworking and distance learning can also be done from other countries. We went on with questions and the question was why Estonia could not be the country where people working in the IT sector can live. After all, this is not a risk group; many of them receive, for example, EUR 7 000 per month. The answer continued to be that the draft is not central to the IT sector, and in the IT sector, for example, some IT businessmen who are going to engage in some kind of cybercrime in the shadow of a company in the register may also work. That's why most IT people can't be treated sensibly, we found out. We went on with the question of Taavi Rõivas, who said that there are no anonymous risk countries from which people are coming to Estonia on a massive basis. It has become clear that the main problems are with Ukrainians who are already working in Estonia. He gave very many examples of Lääne-Virumaa, where entrepreneurs have said that without this additional workforce it is difficult to make the same amount of turnover and to develop at the same rate. There was also an example of a stock exchange with a value of USD 49 billion and 200 people working in Estonia. It is a stock exchange company based in Estonia. These 200 people receive a higher salary than members of the Riigikogu and the tax revenue came to the Estonian state budget more than 5 million euros last year. How, then, does the government acknowledge the consequences of the changes being made? In response, we learned that this draft does not prevent foreign labour from being recruited outside Estonia and that it is a bad thing if there are no companies in Lääne-Virumaa with no Ukrainian employees. The Minister's reminder: cheap labour is not a prerequisite for a smart economy. In this very Chamber, just recently, there was the question of how this draft will affect the IT sector, as regards this amendment to the Aliens Act, how the basis for the revocation of the residence permit will be removed. If previously it was revoked in cases where an alien had failed to comply with the required level of possession of the residence permit for study in the curriculum or where the study had been interrupted, then the residence permit can now be revoked if the alien has failed to significantly comply with his or her obligation under this or other law. The question was how do we know all this or who will appreciate it? The answer was that the Police and Border Guard Board would assess whether it was important. We went on with the questions. What does failure to comply with other legal obligations mean? Could this be, for example, late payments? In reply, the Commission became aware that this was also the case. It also assesses whether an alien poses a threat to public order or security. The grounds for refusal are laid down in the Aliens Act. In short, the Commission learned that the law does not lay down what all these other reasons might be. Other reasons may also be one very small one and due to an accident or some other matter. From there, the debate went on to say that it is still proportional to a quite strong gesture. Should it not be clear, in breach of the law, which risks increase in order to ensure that the revocation of the residence permit is also proportionate? It was said that, if there are really any concerns, it could all be challenged in court because it is an administrative decision. The Commission's debate went back to higher education. The question was that the explanatory memorandum states that Estonian higher education is competitive in Asia and Africa. How is that? We were told that this [amendment] could lead to less interested in these countries in the future and higher education institutions having to work harder to find students from other countries. This may affect the financial side of higher education institutions. Of course, the Commission did not receive a substantive answer. After this committee meeting, I myself have spoken to the people of the Department of Higher Education of the Ministry of Education and Research. They say that Estonian higher education is not only competitive in Asia; they confirm that it is also competitive in Europe. So don't underestimate it. Then we talked a little bit about foreign relations. The question was, however, that the explanatory memorandum did not assess the impact on external relations. What impact could these changes have on external relations? They said that this law had no effect on external relations, which is why it has not been appreciated. The member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Marko Mihkelson, who we had there, mentioned, however, that what was said earlier on the subject of the term of risk countries is clearly flat and has a very bad impact on the Estonian foreign communication. In particular, we should look at all of this in the humane text, look at the background of people who are in potential danger of endangering Estonia's security, and prevent countries from being called risk countries. At the end of the meeting, the Commission also decided to invite a representative of the Defence Police Department to one of these secure rooms. We are definitely planning to listen to what communities are likely to occur in Estonia, whether they are still emerging and how great this danger is. Because it has always been very long spoken about, but every time we want precise answers, it is said that it is a state secret. Well, then we'll find out more. As there were many questions, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided to ask the Committee on Culture, Rural, Economic and Foreign Affairs for an opinion. As always in the committee at the end of the debate, the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposed that the draft be closed at first reading. There was a vote in favour, four against and zero abstentions. Decisions in the Commission shall be taken by a majority of votes in favour, i.e. the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not take a decision on this matter, and the draft shall be submitted to plenary without a proposal from the Commission. It is also important to note that the Commission has a proposal to set a deadline of 20 November 2020 at 4:00, i.e. the deadline is one month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U376	There are questions. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U377	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleague Lauri! In today's Järva Official Journal, you have an article, the content of which is briefly as follows: the draft submitted by the government prefers foreign workers to the people of Estonia, securing the average wage of the sector for foreign workers, while leaving domestic workers unsure about their income. You propose a solution so that the sectoral wage agreement for seasonal work will also help to increase the income of local seasonal workers. Basically, I don't get it. You are now sending out a signal to the public that we somehow want to exclude local workers and prefer foreign ones. This was certainly not the case in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It was also explained why. It is also illogical to link the content of this article to the Employment Contracts Act, which was neither planned nor discussed at all. Of course, by now, this article has disappeared from that Internet site, but the question is: do you really want to send out a message to the public with untrue data?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U378	Thank you, Kalle! I didn't think anyone was gonna ask about this. But very nice, I can talk about my personal views under the Commission's point. Since you asked, I think it's polite to answer. Your question and my opinion are not specifically related to the Commission's debate. What I proposed there, and what I wrote, is a position that I personally own. I did not dissect the Commission's debate there. But now, when it comes to what we discussed in the Commission, and from this very point, it really is about seasonal workers, foreign seasonal workers, and according to this draft, they must be given an average annual sectoral salary. You can't pay less than that. When we think about what the average wage is, the average wage is the average. That means someone always gets above average and someone gets below average. If we impose a law where an alien may not be paid below average, how does the average develop? This means that people in Estonia can be paid below average. Well, I think that it would be very fair to all Estonian seasonal workers in horticulture and agriculture, that if we put in place a'and I think it is a very good idea to have an average wage for the sector, then it should be set for everyone in principle. Very sensible solutions are, there are fewer in Estonia, but when we look at other countries, there is a great deal of agreement between employers and employees. Yeah, they agree on a minimum, not an average. It is a sectoral agreement and it does not matter whether a foreigner comes or an Estonian, he gets at least that much salary. This eliminates the problem that people from abroad are paid too little, that the Estonian labour force is somehow being rejected, preferring a foreigner. This will ensure that the Estonian employee will also receive a fair salary. All that stuff. In this sense, this solution could easily be this way. But in this case, according to this bill, the situation really is that an Estonian person can get below average, but an alien cannot.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U379	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U380	Thank you for the floor. Would you be so good as to correct what Kalvi Tõud asked about the fact that if both parents were to receive a study permit in Estonia, this bill does not give them the right to take the child with them? Perhaps the bill clearly states that only a single parent can bring a child. What, then, does this bill actually provide for opportunities for parents to take their child with them? Or is it the legislator's will to let the child be alone somewhere else when the parents study here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U381	Thank you. I really have to fix the Minister, and so that everything is correct and no one can say that this is my fiction, I will read to you what is written in this bill. This concerns paragraphs 2 and 3 of § 621 and, more specifically, paragraph 3. It states: "If a foreigner's short-term employment in Estonia is registered and has a legal basis for temporary stay in Estonia, a minor's child may be granted a short-term or long-term visa if the alien is a parent raising the minor's child alone. " If, by chance, he is not a parent raising a child alone, it really can't be given. Basically, if Mom and Dad come to Estonia to study and get a residence permit here, they must not take their child with them according to this bill. For example, when a mother comes to Estonia to study, a child stays in the home country with his father, something happens to his father, for example, father, I don't know, for example, schizophrenia attacks occur, he becomes dangerous to the child, it is not possible to take the child with him in this situation either. It's plainly written, and no matter how you look, there's no more way to bring a child. I can't put it that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U382	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U383	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Did you also discuss in the Commission how similar situations, just as this last one was here, have been organised, for example, in England, Germany, America, so that we could follow suit? How's that? It's very modern to talk about honeycombs. Does this possibility extend to, say, the whole honeycomb family?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U384	Yes, thank you! Unfortunately, we did not discuss the experiences of other countries, and obviously because there are no such restrictions in most Western countries, there is no possibility of copying any experience. The Western countries are still similar to today's Estonia in this sense. But if we pass this law, we'd rather be exceptions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U385	The third question cannot be asked. Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. We can open negotiations. The desire to negotiate has also been revealed. Taavi Rõivas, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U386	More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U387	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U388	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! I warn you, I'll start with a quote: "The number of Negroes has exploded in Tallinn. If you knock them in the head, it's hollow wood. " Those words were presented to us two years ago by Mart Helme, who was now presenting the bill, speaking at a speech meeting about foreign students. Just a year ago, last September, Helme added: "Those who come here are not so much Ukrainians, as the Russians of Eastern Ukraine or Russian Ukrainians or just homo Soviets. " A few months earlier, in June, however, Helme had said: " But not in order to train the fat horse thieves of Tallinn University, which became a completely nonexistent scientific institution, clearly a propaganda institution. " Those are just words, pay no attention, and it is recommended. The government has agreed on different values and actual politics is said to be something else entirely. But it's not. The draft before us today is another materialised proof that this is exactly the policy of EKRE and, as long as EKRE is in government, this is the face and act of Estonia as a whole. It is impossible to understand why the rest of the government is signing this draft, which has been drafted as a draft decision without a prescribed coordination circle, in a respectless manner for ministers and officials in the framework of the urgency procedure. Does the Fatherland, on whose initiative we wore Georgian-flagged shirts in this very hall 12 years ago and whose members have also stood up for Ukrainian rights as an independent state, really agree that if there is a Ukrainian, show the door? Does the Centre Party, whose political focus has been an integral part of integration for decades, really approve of the hostile attitude towards all who are not one hundred percent ethnic Estonians? How do we talk about family-centred Estonia and the Minister of the Interior just said that foreigners working or studying in Estonia can live their family life in their home country, abroad? Unfortunately, the content of the draft does not lag behind the words of Helme. The family member of an alien working in Estonia, including the child, becomes considerably more difficult, if not impossible. When several million Ukrainians need to be integrated, the Minister of the Interior, who has just defended the bill, asked from this remote control, probably well aware that there are a few thousand students from third countries and some tens of thousands of temporary workers. Misleading and conceiving orders of magnitude is hardly a coincidence. This has happened before. A few years ago, Mart Helme spoke about tens of thousands of refugees arriving in Estonia or arriving immediately. When I asked the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to elaborate on the official figures, he was forced to admit from the mouth that yes, the actual number is rather 50. No, not 50,000, 50 people. The family members of students who applied for a residence permit in Estonia were 230 last year, once again not 230,000, but 230 family members, including children. But fear, of course, has big eyes. At the same time, the fear that has taken the dimensions of paranoia should not be the basis for the policy making of one dignified country. As far as I am aware, the history of Estonian parliamentarianism, and certainly not the recent history, is not remembered by a minister who would have publicly said that the drafts that make a significant difference in social life do not need coordination, only will and a narrow circle agreement are enough. But this is the position that we heard today, contrary to Estonia's earlier development. Universities, employers, the start-up community, technology companies, farmers and a number of other important target groups have been excluded from the procedure of this draft, although they are the ones most affected. Falling income, falling turnover, loss of jobs and reduced investment are keywords that recur in the calls made by representative organisations. In some cases, these conversions are intriguing tones. However, this bill also affects the well-being of every human being, because by driving some people out of Estonia, we will inevitably drive away part of the volume of the economy and future growth. The rejection of foreign students admitted to Estonian universities is, of course, even more bizarre. If we are repulsive to very intelligent people whose Estonian society, Estonian universities, has recognised as eligible students, then this is nothing more than pure stupidity. We should be open and actually attract smart people to teach at Estonian universities and to study at Estonian universities and, of course, to work at Estonian companies, not to do everything to make them feel uncomfortable and excluded here in Estonia. By the way, let it be said that the labour taxes of foreign students working in Estonia alone are in the order of 10 million euros per year and a third of them work in the IT and technology sector, where the hands and brains are very, very needed. Many fast-growing companies in Estonia are very international and openness to talent is essential for their success. These companies do not have to be here in Estonia. It is our job to lure these companies here, not to drive them away. In these companies, the people of Estonia are paid a decent salary. There will be a great deal of labour tax on these companies to the Estonian Treasury. Ladies and gentlemen, I will finish exactly five years ago with the words used in this very chair. An open and tolerant society certainly creates preconditions for researchers and students from other countries and cultural environments to come to Estonia, stay here and pursue a career here. I repeat, for the sake of clarity, that intolerance, intolerance and hatred against people of different backgrounds hinder the development of Estonian science, economy and society as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, I propose that the draft be rejected at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U389	Jaak Valge, please, on behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U390	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U391	Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U392	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable technical staff! First of all, as legislators and representatives of the people, we still have to look at the issues we can resolve in a complex way. This demagoguery does not go on on any issues, especially migration processes. For migration processes, a systemic approach is particularly important. If we formulate our foreign policy, it should be to shape a loyal citizenship and maintain the balance of migration at a level that does not jeopardise the preservation of Estonian nationality and culture. I am not speaking here as a historian, but when we look at migration policy, we still do not get past the migration processes during the occupation that, as we know, shaped a society with an exceptionally high population of foreign origin. The migratory flows then fluctuated, but in the 1980's, 30,000 people came to us from outside in the middle of the year and left 25,000. Maybe the migration balance was 5,000 plus. Unfortunately, we have to say that, apart from the migration of Estonian and other citizens of the European Union, which is more or less balanced, about 5 000 more people came to Estonia in 2019 than they left, although this migration turnover was lower: about 18000 came in and more than 13000 went out. The balance of migration is of the same magnitude. Now, as a historian, I dare to assume that it was precisely because of the mass immigration of our time that our efforts to freedom became so urgent. As a politician, I dare say that this attitude has not changed. My political courage is also driven by a survey, according to which nearly 80% of the Estonian population thinks that a limited number of people, very few people or not, could come from elsewhere to live in Estonia. The issue is not that we consider immigrants to be somehow worse than we are, but still in the implementation of the Estonian Constitution. According to the Constitution, our country must ensure the preservation of Estonian nationality, language and culture throughout the ages. If we are unable to integrate immigrants into Estonia, this is bad not only for the indigenous population but also for the population of foreign origin, both for people who speak Estonian and for people who speak other languages. That is the problem that will be solved. I'm not talking about foreign labour. I believe that I do not need to convince you that I can talk about this for a long time and respond to the statements made by the previous speaker, but I am only talking about foreign students in the absence of time. I would be pleased if there was a general understanding that the proportion of foreign students does not in itself measure the quality of studies or the quality of universities. At the University of Tartu, 10% of students study abroad or a little more and the University of Tartu shares 251. on the university rankings. For example, at the University of Helsinki, however, 5% of students study abroad and this place is 97. The largest part of our foreign students is not made up of IT students, who are highlighted very much by these IT students in the round of 10%, but instead of students in business and administration, who are well over a third. Humanities and arts are the second most popular. According to the OSKA's fresh business and administration report, given the future's labour needs, it is sufficient for business, administration or economics to select about 10% of students. Thus, training Estonian students alone in these disciplines can actually exceed Estonia's needs. It would also be very difficult to believe that although many specialists trained in English in humanitarian fields find professional work in Estonia. In conclusion, studies such as "The success of graduates of higher education and vocational education in the labour market" show that 21% of foreign students who graduated from 2005 to 2016 have left work in Estonia, and 26% more than the graduates in 2016. It takes account of the main place in work. On the basis of another methodology, if all work episodes are taken into account, including the so-called "work bites," the result will be larger, about half. Now I'm using the Jaak Aaviksoo interview. He notes that the motivation for many foreign students to come to Estonia is easy to move to the European Union: "Send to a better life, many are also planned from the beginning as a family enterprise, and if Estonia has a favourable opportunity, then cold winter will also suffer and other European countries will suffer a lower level of economics in order to continue to look beyond the acquisition of the diploma. " Thus, a large proportion of foreign students in Estonia receive free education in English at the expense of the Estonian taxpayer, while also englishling our higher education studies and then leaving Estonia. Hopefully, this bill will direct foreign students to learn more in Estonian and will prevent the situation that they are coming to Estonia precisely because of what Aaviksoo notes. However, the funding model of universities should in itself work in such a way as to direct universities to train the people that Estonian society needs. If the financing model does not do so, it needs to be changed. The whole immigration policy must be one that supports Estonia's development. If this is not the case, it must be changed. This draft has begun with these amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U393	Lauri Western Forest, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U394	Ladies and gentlemen, These amendments to the law are anti-worker, especially against the Estonian people. They are hostile, especially to this family, which we are accustomed to regard as traditional: mother, father, children, married family. These amendments to the law are hostile to Estonia's success story, a hand brake on the development of our digital state, and a drag on IT development. These changes hurt our universities, education, the foundation of Estonian statehood, the guarantor of a prosperous, democratic and just society. This is due to the fact that the legislative changes we are discussing here are not a well-thought-out government plan, but a political decision made in summer in the strawberry field to solve the problem that the government itself created. Let's start with the working person in Estonia. The draft submitted by the government favours foreign workers to the people of Estonia, securing the average wage of the sector for foreign workers, while leaving domestic workers unsure of their income. The Social Democrats cannot agree with such an initiative in any way. Average means someone always gets less than average. Why must it be our own people who are about to be paid less? The solution that would ensure a fair income for the people of Estonia in seasonal work and avoid paying unreasonably low wages to foreigners is the wage agreement between employees and employers. This would help to raise the salaries of our own people in the horticultural and agricultural sectors. That would be a fair change for everyone, above all for our own people. I do not understand how it is possible to despise foreigners in such a way that they will harm their own people. Not only have Estonia fallen in the OECD digital rankings, we would completely brake Estonian IT-eduloo with these amendments to the law. If the rhetoric is not considered to be a problem with the presence of foreign IT workers with a higher income than the salary of a member of the Riigikogu, an exception for foreigners working in the IT sector or start-ups would be sufficient. Instead, their families will be broken down, they will be forced to work full-time alongside small children and to work full-time alongside their studies, and other restrictions will be imposed, which will simply make Estonia an unpleasant and anti-family state. In their address to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the rectors of the universities point out that the government has a newly prepared "Estonia 2035" strategy aimed at creating a talent-friendly environment; on the other hand, we prohibit universities from making students work hard to get a tuition discount; we make it as difficult for universities to participate in international research projects, part of which is a free study place. Not only is the state budget currently under way not planning to give higher education the money that is missing and then it wonders why universities create free study places for foreign students. Social Democrats cannot support a bill that treats Estonian workers unequally, brakes the success story of the Estonian digital state, is anti-family and reduces the chances of our universities to succeed. Ladies and gentlemen, the Social Democratic Party Group proposes to reject the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U395	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. As the Commission rapporteur said in his presentation, the Commission did not propose. This should be the basis for the completion of the first reading if no other proposal is made. But we have two proposals here. One is from the Reform Party Group and the other is from the Social Democratic Party Group: reject the draft Act 241 SE, the Foreigners Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Higher Education Act and the Amendment to the Study Grants and Student Loan Act at first reading. Let's get everybody in the hall. Attention, honourable colleagues. I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Social Democratic Party to reject the draft law amending the Aliens Act, the Higher Education Act and the Study Grants and Student Loan Act 241 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U396	43 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this proposal, 52 against. The proposal was not supported, the draft remains open. The deadline for tabling amendments is 20 November at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U397	Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to today's agenda. The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Feedingstuffs initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Rural Affairs, Arvo Aller, speaker's office, please. All members of the Riigikogu may ask up to two oral questions, the length of which is one minute. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U398	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Allow me to present the draft amendment to the feed law drawn up by the Ministry of Rural Affairs. The purpose of this draft law is to bring the feed law into line with the directly applicable EU regulation establishing a list of uses for specific feed. Until now, both the use of the specific feed and the use required to achieve it were regulated by a directive, which has now been replaced by a directly applicable regulation. That Regulation does not contain provisions requiring their transposition into the national law of the Member States. Specific feed shall be fed to animals with a view to meeting the specific nutritional requirements of animals whose digestion, absorption or metabolism processes are or may be temporarily or irreversibly impaired. That Union Regulation lays down the precise use of specific feedingstuffs, the essential nutritional characteristics, the recommended period of use and the species or category of animals for which the specific feed is intended. There is no substantive difference between the draft law and the provisions of the current feed law. All the amendments proposed by the draft law are technical and do not entail new obligations for feed business operators or supervisors. The entry into force of the Act is scheduled for 25 December 2020, which is due to Article 5 of the European Union Special Feed Regulation 2020/354. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U399	There are questions. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U400	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. I'm going to ask you a very simple question. Can you name one of the specials? Not everyone has that much to do with animal husbandry. It would loom us to see what kind of bait is meant.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U401	By name, I may find myself in a bit of trouble, but the special feed is for example intended to reduce the risk of the formation of urate stones for dogs, it is definitely in there as active substances. They are then intended to improve the recovery of horses after competition, for mammals special feeds are the time of heat, and for the reproductive process, mammals also have special feeds.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U402	Thank you. It seems, Minister, that there are no further questions for you. Next, I would like to ask Merry Aart, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U403	Honourable speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law 225 was discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs on 12 October 2020. The members of the Commission were Merry Aart, Heiki Hepner, Kaido Hoöölson, Erkki Keldo, Siret Kotka, Urmas Kruuse, Ivari Padar, Andrus Seed and, of course, Tarmo Tamm. In the Commission, the Minister gave an overview of the draft law amending the Law on Feedingstuffs initiated by the Government of the Republic. He pointed out that the aim of the draft was to bring the feed law into line with Regulation 2020/354 and spoke about the main changes to be made to the draft. The amendment of the Feed Law Act is due to enter into force on 25 December 2020. The members of the Commission did not have any questions about the draft; further proceedings were discussed. It was agreed that the Commission would send the draft to first reading and that the deadline for submitting amendments was 10 working days in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. The Commission unanimously decided to propose a draft to be put on the agenda for 225 plenary sessions by 21 October and to propose that the first reading be closed. That's all I got. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U404	Thank you, Honorable Co-Rapporteur. No questions for you. The lead committee has proposed to close the first reading of the draft 225 and the first reading has been completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 4 November at 5.15 p.m. The draft is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U405	We will go to the next item, the first reading of the draft Law amending the Law on the Protection of Animals and Bankruptcy initiated by the Government of the Republic. Once again, I ask the Minister for Rural Affairs, Arvo Aller, to speak here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U406	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce the draft law amending the Law on Animal Protection and the Law on Bankruptcy drawn up by the Ministry of Rural Affairs. The draft has been designed to address the problems encountered in practice in protecting the life and health of animals in situations where the keeper does not comply adequately with the housing requirements. In such a situation, the keeper must take over the obligations relating to the proper keeping of the animal and not the right to property. By the law in force, the obligation to keep animals taken away from the owner of the animal is imposed as a replacement on the local government unit. Due to the lack of forecasting of precise costs, local authorities have not been able to plan the budget for this, although, if necessary, activities requiring these costs must be started immediately. This has put the local government units in a position where it is necessary to find money from other tasks or to choose which tasks to carry out in order to carry out a public task. The draft introduces the obligation to take over the animal from 2021 to the Agriculture and Food Board. Pooling transposition responsibilities in a single authority with a clear financing model and a substantial simplification of the procedure will help to better achieve animal protection objectives. The draft also amends the Bankruptcy Act. The amendment is due to the need to ensure the protection of animal health and life even if the keeper has been declared bankrupt and the procedure initiated. If the debtor's assets include an animal, the insolvency administrator has been obliged to cooperate with the Agricultural and Food Administration since 2021 to ensure that the animal is properly kept. The amendment applies to all kept animals, both farmed animals and other animals. However, the amendment does not concern stray animals. The draft plan for the capture and keeping of these animals, the identification of their owner and the organisation of the killing of stray animals shall not change. This amendment is planned to enter into force from 1 January 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U407	Good Minister, there are questions for you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U408	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, This law was developed many years ago. Can you tell me why this law has been developing for so long? Another important question, which we also addressed in the Commission, was it possible for you to think about it? It was linked to the fact that if, for example, the State were to take over the obligation to keep animals from the undertaking in relation to the fact that the company was saying that it was not financially able to do so and the company would have to go bankrupt, whether and how the State would still be able to recover this expenditure fairly, as the bankruptcy thief would be able to distribute money on the basis of other principles.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U409	Thank you for your question. Yes, a concern arose in 2016 on the basis of a specific case when the local authority had to take over a farm in a livestock holding and this administrative procedure was proportionate to the local authority. Why has this bill stood? I may be indebted to the exact reasons, but this law has been dealt with in essence for four years. In the meantime, the Estonian Presidency was in the European Union, which slowed things down. It has been actively prepared and has now reached the Chamber of the Riigikogu. I am pleased that, at the end of the day, there is also a solution at the local government level that the municipality should not take over animals. As far as the financial scheme is concerned, this financial scheme provides an opportunity for the state to obtain revenue when there are animals of high breeding value at auction. While the interests of the State go in the general order of [satisfaction], the price of the anticipated purchase feed is determined by the estimated use of it by the State for the maintenance of these animals. According to this, the state can plan these things in its budget if it needs to. But in the current cases, these costs have been... Well, there have been. There haven't been any big companies here. In the case of pet animals, 25 to 27 animals per year have been withdrawn, and costs have been recovered in the course of subsequent processing. I hope that this maintenance obligation will not normally have to be taken over by the state. But in bankruptcy proceedings, it depends on how many times the state is in order, usually it is in third or second place, on the basis of general compensation, the state will get its money back from there, perhaps in a certain proportion. But in the case of animals of high breeding value, this is based on auction and auction revenues.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U410	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U411	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good waitress! The terms have their charm. You brought in the term "breathing animal." It's like it's within the jurisdiction of a local government. At the same time, we still have pets, farm animals, etc. I would like to clarify, for the sake of clarity, that if there is a stray horse, whether it is a local authority's competence or how it is clearly classified. Additional question to this question: When this stray animal has been captured and sheltered, whose responsibility is this? Then he's not straying anymore, then he's kind of orphaned. Or how exactly is that interpretation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U412	When a pet wanders, the municipality needs to find out whose it belongs to. If the municipality becomes aware of the owner and the owner is in difficulty and unable to keep the animal in accordance with animal welfare requirements, then the Agriculture and Food Board comes into play, which assumes the responsibility for keeping animals and covers the costs for the animal to be good.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U413	No further questions. Thank you. Next, I would like to ask Siret Kotka, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U414	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This draft law was dealt with by the Committee on Rural Affairs on 12 October 2020. Tarmo Tamm, Merry Aart, Heiki Hepner, Kaido Höökelson, Erkki Keldo, Siret Kotka, Urmas Kruuse, Ivari Padar and Andrus Seed took part in the meeting. Minister Arvo Aller gave an overview of the draft law amending the Law on the Protection of Animals and the Law on Bankruptcy initiated by the Government of the Republic. He pointed out that the purpose of the draft was to resolve the problems encountered in the implementation of the law, as the obligation to keep an animal from the irresponsible owner has been imposed on the local authority under the current law. According to the amendment to the draft act, the Food and Veterinary Office has the power to take over the obligations relating to the proper keeping of the animal in the event of a breach of the essential requirements of the Law on the Protection of Animals. The Commission addressed this draft law and decided to consensually send it to the first reading, which will take place today, and to conclude the first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U415	Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U416	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In this sense, it is certainly very important that the local authorities do not seem to have this competence, particularly as regards the transposition of the obligation to keep livestock and farm animals, and also as regards the granting of this competence to the VTA. But does it seem fair to you if the state takes over this responsibility through the VTA to ensure that these animals are healthy, alive and also economically protected, but, in the case of possible bankruptcy, the state will be put in the last order, which may mean that in order to preserve this property, the state will be spending quite a lot of money, but ultimately it may not be able to recover that money? Do you see a problem with that? Or what could be the solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U417	Thank you for your question. Yes, the Food and Veterinary Office shall keep animals until they are disposed of or executed. The VTA has the right to recover the costs of keeping them from the keeper. Now there are two options. If we look at it under bankruptcy law, the receiver can handle it on his own, and there is no real need for the state. But if VTA is really necessary, then there are also possibilities that VTA, when it disposes of animals, will have higher revenues than the costs and therefore no additional obligations for the State. There is, of course, another scenario that the questioner asked about. Yes, if the costs are higher than the revenues, there could be a situation where the State would have to bear additional costs. Is that fair or not? We did not address this issue directly in the Commission, but I think that the fact that local authorities are being deprived of this role and given to the Food and Veterinary Office is, in itself, very right, because the VTA certainly has much more than one local authority competence in animal husbandry. It is always possible for Urmas Kruus to make even better proposals as amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-21_U418	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 226. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 4 November at 5.15 p.m. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The sitting is adjourned.
