ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U1	Good morning, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday of the 9th working week. As always, there is an opportunity to submit inquiries and drafts. No inquiries, no drafts. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U2	57 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, there are no 44.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U3	We can start today's agenda. There is one point on today's agenda: the crucial national question 'Estonia's Doom', initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, will the truth finally rise to the surface? ' debate. Rapporteurs are Ain-Alar Juhanson, who was the president of the government's committee of inquiry in 2005-2009, and the third rapporteur is Kalle Grünthal, a member of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. I will now introduce the procedure for dealing with this issue. According to § 153 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, the Board of the Riigikogu, on the proposal of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, determined the importance of the national question 'Estonia's death', does the truth finally rise to the surface? ' discuss next time. Ain-Alar Juhanson's report on the wreck of the passenger ferry Estonia is up to 15 minutes, questions and answers up to 30 minutes. The second presentation, the presentation by Margus Kurm, Chairman of the Government Investigation Commission, is up to 30 minutes, questions and answers up to 30 minutes. The presentation by Kalle Grünthal, a member of the Conservative People's Party Group, is up to 15 minutes, questions and answers are up to 30 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask up to two questions to any rapporteur. After the presentations and questions have been answered, negotiations will be opened. Members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups may speak. At the request of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I propose to the Riigikogu that representatives of the political groups speak first. The Riigikogu will not take a decision to close the discussion. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has also immediately proposed extending the time of the sitting until the item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock, but this will be put to the vote by the President when this time comes closer. We can start the agenda. I'm asking for the first presentation of Ain-Alar Juhanson, who survived the wreck of the passenger ferry to Estonia. Please, Mr. Juhanson! The report shall be held for a maximum of 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U4	Hello, everyone! First of all, it is a great honor to share your experience here in front of you, which happened 26 years and a little bit more ago. At the time, I was 17 years old and, of course, the world view at that time was quite different from what has become today. We were on our way to Germany with our training partners and friends. We were the last car parked aboard Estonia and, of course, in great euphoria, because another international sports competition, discovering the world and all. As an intermediate remark, since the time is short, I will sum up my experience in a relatively concentrated way. Over the years, when I talk about these things, I have experienced that it might take hours to pass on the full picture. Now back to that experience. When we arrived on the ship, we decided that four of the five members of the company would enter the ship, and our "authority driver," Jaan Pehk, decided that he would stay in the car to watch the wheels and spend the night. He felt so much better. That's where we left him, despite our cursings and flattery, so it would make sense to still come into the ship. When we went inside the ship, as always as poor athletes, we decided that the cheapest thing was to take a double cabin on four. We got it under the car deck in the cabin, and then we went to bed, the four of us in a double cabin: two people on the floor, two in bed. We had fallen asleep, we didn't look at the clock, of course we didn't realize that we should look at it specifically. But in the stormy sea, where the ship was constantly fluctuating, it was naturally difficult to fall asleep. But we'd all fallen asleep until one minute we woke up at a big slap. I opened the cabin and looked in the hallway. I saw water running through the walls of the hallway. I was under the car blanket. This is one fact, one important nuance, which would require very clear reflection and revelation, because I was not the only one who saw under the car deck that water came from the walls. I'm not familiar with the technical construction of the ship, I'm not a specialist to say it, but on the basis of my best knowledge, if water reaches the car deck, it shouldn't get past that. But let the detectives do their job. From there on, since I was the first to come out of the cabin, it seemed to me, seeing all this, that the ship was about to get really hard to say how much, but in a discernible heel. I went back to the cabin, told my fellows what I felt, what I saw. Since the situation was confusing, we had woke up in our sleep and we didn't know what was actually going to happen, we decided that we were going up to reception or the main deck to find out what really happened. To start this journey, of course, I decided at least to put on my jeans, and I brought my blouse. The comrades also put on basic clothes and started our journey up the stairs. During this journey, when we got out of the cabin again, we saw the volume of water in the corridor significantly higher than in the first experience, maybe a few minutes before that. So this process was relatively rapid. And we saw people around us differently: who sat on the ground without knowing what to do, who ran around and who tried to move up like us. By the time we reached five to six decks up to reception, the ship was already so high that, essentially, it was not possible to walk on the floor without additional support. And if you can imagine, when reception arrived, in order to do anything about it at all, we saw that there were considerably more people there than we could expect, with very different manners: who was panicked, who couldn't do anything about it, who acted exactly as he could. I think that that moment right there in the big reception hall or in the largest hall of the ship was that moment, and those experiences were what, I think, no person should carry with them. It was a sight that no human should see. But we can't change history. A 17-year-old young man sees young people die in front of him, dying, that's probably something that will be remembered for the rest of his life, but we'll learn to live and deal with it. By the time we got to reception, it was clear that there was something very wrong with the ship and we had to get out of the ship because the ship was spinning and spinning, and at one point what was north was going to be the top part and vice versa. We realized that the only way to get out of the ship is to get out of the railing or into the field deck using handrails by the wall. A very important order had arisen for their use. Since the handrail was only on one side of the stairs, it must have worked hard to get out. And it was very difficult physically, because the crene was constantly increasing. When we had arrived on the ship until our turn, there were only two of our four members, since Kristjan Raiend and Ülle Bear had lost contact with us when they arrived at reception. Kristjan announced that he was going and looking for life jackets, and Ülle went with him. We didn't see those two dates again. We got out of the ship, it was physically difficult. Anti, older than me and, of course, physically stronger, helped so many more who followed us out of that side door, which actually at one point seemed to have turned into a dome because the ship had been spinning so much. While we were on the deck of the ship, we were looking for life jackets, and they were available. We were visited by an Estonian-speaking gentleman in an officer's uniform who asked if we were okay. He saw if we were wearing vests and moved on. Our question to him was whether it was possible to lower the lifeboat, if we could help. He said it couldn't be done with a heel like this. From there, Antiga and I moved to the side of the ship. There were still people out there trying to figure out a way to survive. We also saw from a distance the lights of other ships, which naturally injected optimism that we were not alone. Even at the moment the ship was so high that we were able to walk on the side of the ship, there was no belief that this ship would sink because we did not believe that such a thing was possible today. However, after some time, which was not very long, Antiga and I discussed that when we jumped from the side of the ship into the water, we put ourselves in danger because the waves were large and we saw what happened to the companions who did so. We decided we were headed for one end of the ship. So we didn't know it was a ship's nose. We reached the ship's nose and saw a wall with a metal grid. It was a ship's ramp that was closed. This is a fact that is not reflected in the final report. I've told three detectives, I don't know why, but it doesn't reflect. The final sport says something else, who knows for what reason. Antiga and I decided to find a way closer to the water along this grid so that the jump wouldn't be too high. One minute we jumped, we got in the water. We lost our life jackets in the process, but both of us came to the water and found our way away from the ship. The desire to withdraw from the ship was precisely because not to be near the ship when it was actually going down, which seemed very clear at that point. From there, we found a life raft. We were on a life raft for six hours, and we were rescued by helicopter in the morning hours. There were six people in the raft, and everyone in the raft survived that night. To sum up this short journey in the few 15 minutes I've been given, I can only say that very few survivors are willing to share their experience. I've made this promise that it's the least I can do for my friends and victims. And that's why I'm here today. I, one of the survivors, can only speak for myself. I see that my testimony is not included in the official final report. And maybe it's not... It's my own tragedy or my own problem. But for 26 years, I've had to talk every month of September to discuss media publications at various seminars about why this happened. I do not have an answer, because the new facts that have come to light today are something that shows that we have not fully clarified what happened that night. And here I have a request for all of you. Estonia's disaster is an important event that concerns our country as a whole, the dignity and existence of our country. When we address this issue, it may be possible to do so in such a way that differences between us do not come between us and we find common sense and understanding that the final truth will eventually come to light. Because this is what the survivors, those who have suffered, those close to them, who have been waiting for 26 years, deserved today. And there's a lot of them. We're talking about a grave truce that can't be ruined. But what about the peace of the people who live on today? This is very important, I think, and I think they should be dealt with together. Thank you very much and I am pleased that the current government of Estonia has set itself the goal of initiating a technical investigation. I have also been involved in meetings with the Secretary of State every month, where there are other victims and so-called related relatives, organisations. And when I am there, of course, I see attempts to resolve the situation, but we cannot overcome or reverse it, that this issue is politically linked to the Treaty of Tomb Peace. And as much as I have learned or understood about these meetings, in order to be honest, clearly and unambiguously clear to Estonia as the flag state, our fate mates, Finland and Sweden, must also agree. I think this is a difficult situation where there can really be pressure and desire and will, and I hope that we will not be stuck here in political arguments and differences between countries. This theme... I may have been touched very closely, but I can see that it affects a lot of people. And I'm convinced that if we could conduct an in-depth investigation, it would give peace. Even if he confirms the knowledge he has, he would give peace to many very, very many. And that's what I think hasn't been done yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U5	Thank you very much. Members of the Riigikogu have questions for you. Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U6	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Ain! I've known you for decades, and I've never bothered to ask you that. Thanks for sharing your story! But my question is this: who is most opposed to investigating this ship right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U7	Thank you for your question. I think that maybe the Secretary of State is best able to answer that question because he is appointed by the Estonian state to carry it out. As far as I understand it, the main obstacle is the agreement with the relevant Finnish and Swedish organisations or with the organisations designated by the state. The problem clearly stated at the last meeting is that it is only after two months that the Finnish Government has finally taken the trouble and found the organisation that will be communicating with us. These things are very slow. For me, it is also a question of purely my opinion that if we also have the least suspicion that there may be some sort of national side... How am I supposed to be politically correct now? If there are doubts that a country may have been hiding something, it is very difficult to find a common language to open up this investigation and do it once and for all. I think it might be one of the obstacle stones to carry it out thoroughly. I understand the political problems. Nobody wants to fight anyone, and it doesn't make any sense, but I suspect there might be such obstacles.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U8	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U9	Thank you for the floor. And thank you, Ain-Alar, for finding courage and coming here because there are few who speak. That's my question. Please tell me if there has been any pressure on you, especially in the early years, that you should not talk. Is there a desire to take a vow of silence? And what do you even know about this area? We know nobody really wants to talk. I'll also ask you what you have to know about Captain Confess. On TV, we've all seen that he was saved. Do you have any more knowledge?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U10	Thank you for your question. First of all, I've answered three detectives who have been communicating with me during this time. One of them is sitting in this room too, and I think you can talk about it in your report. I have never been under any pressure to talk about it or to talk about others. It's my own free will and my own decision and my moral duty to talk about it. That's why I'm here. If you comment on different conspiracy theories or, specifically, the same Captain Confess theory, I haven't seen that picture. I understand, I've felt it in these 26 years, that these theories are very many and very different. And they can only arise and only if there is no clear and unambiguous outcome of the study that everyone agrees with. If we look at the various disasters and other events that have occurred in history, then it is Kennedy's murder or something else, we can see that conspiracy theories arise when there is no clear and unambiguous report or explanation of what happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U11	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U12	Honourable Deputy Speaker! Lovely performer! Thank you for your courage to tell us these old memories. As a writer, I was obsessed with a question. What happened to the two companions who shared a cabin with you?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U13	Thank you for your question. Jaan Pehk remained on the car deck for five members of the company on the trip. He was not found. Ülle Karu and Kristjan Raiend were found dead, and Anti Arak and I were two who survived.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U14	Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U15	Thank you! I didn't get into this accident in any way, but I've heard and seen and discussed what happened. Did you say the ramp was up? I mean, like, out of place? Or was it the visor that opened the ship from there and the water broke in? That's one question. Now, 26 years later, the version came back that allegedly military material was carried on board the ship. It was discussed earlier, but I don't think they found anything. But on board the ship, it was claimed that a hole was found four metres high and one and a half metres wide, and a version of it arose that some submarine, probably a Swedish submarine, had sailed into it. When you woke up at night, were there any kicks, shakes, sounds suggesting the ship was driven in? And when you got to the ship's nose, was the ramp out there? Or a visor? Where did the water come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U16	Thank you for your question. When we got to the ship's nose, there was no visor. At first, we thought it was the back of the ship, but later we realized that we saw it, I don't know what it's called, the bulb of the ship, or the first egg that breaks the wave. Then we used the same grid behind the ramp that strengthens the ramp to climb down and jump into the water. The second part of this question was whether we heard any kind of collision. If we are at a stormy sea, perhaps many of you have lived on the Baltic Sea [the stormy sea], then the ship makes different sounds when it is in great wave. At the same time, there are sounds that differ very clearly. We heard those sounds just after we woke up. And these sounds were rather large metal crackles, such rumblings, not explosion-like, but rather like collision-like or produced by the same visor. I don't know what caused the hole that came out on that TV show. But it is clear that this particular episode, and the fact that such a hole exists, proves that we have not been thorough and examined everything that happened that night. And that is why I think we all deserve a very clear new and thorough technical investigation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U17	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U18	Thank you. First of all, thank you very much for coming and talking about this tragic night and remembering it. What you said was that the International Commission of Inquiry did not take into account the very important details of your certificate and they never entered the final report of the Commission. We know this isn't the only case. There have probably been dozens of such stories in the case of survivors. My question would be: have you or the other survivors ever been given any explanation as to why your testimony was not taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U19	Thank you for your question. Indeed, for at least 20 years, my testimony was found online as a photocopy, accessible to everyone, now it's gone. However, I have also not had the opportunity to ask the specific committee of inquiry this question because there is no direct contact. I can simply state the fact that the specific episodes I'm talking about in that testimony are not reflected in the investigation report. I don't think it's directly my job or my duty to follow it up because I've given my statement. I believe that other people must make assessments of the regularity of the work carried out by the Committee of Inquiry. But, yes, unfortunately, my testimony on this part is not reflected.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U20	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U21	Thank you very much, manager. Good waitress! Thank you, for your part, for coming here. But here's the question. You and many others who have been through this tragic event, either yourself or through your loved ones, how do you feel about it, should we now bring this matter up again? And if it really needed relatively expensive activities and, for example, a ship would need to be raised, how would you feel about this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U22	Thank you for your question. I think it is only my opinion that, with modern technical means, it is possible very thoroughly and discreetly to clarify the story of the grave and the people who have died there, to do all the necessary things. I do not see the need today for the ship to be lifted from its position and to be made clear with it. He's not that deep. Today's tools, both diver robots and all others, allow for a very specific and clear picture, as proved by the TV series section. In this respect, my assessment and vision are such that we should not raise the ship, but simply examine it thoroughly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U23	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U24	Good manager! Good saver! You mentioned here in a delicate way when there was talk of halting the investigation and why it is not moving or not moving where it should be, that some of the countries concerned are not interested. I ask: did you mean the Kingdom of Sweden?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U25	Thank you for your question. I think there may still be some of these countries, but in this particular case I meant yes that it could be the Kingdom of Sweden, which is not interested in investigating this matter to the same extent as perhaps the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U26	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U27	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I'm really sorry that you have to go through this night over and over again, but I appreciate you doing this. When you answer the previous questions, you have already said very much what you think should be done next. I would ask you to gather together what is what you think should follow under ideal conditions: Will you examine who should examine how to study? What is it that you would like us not to have to start this discussion every few decades and form a new Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U28	Thank you for your question. Again, my own opinion, but I think that the whole investigation must be transparent, clear and thorough. In addition to technical investigations, which the Government of the Republic has also spoken about, we have actually found that some of the survivors have only now, 26 years later, been prepared to tell their story. And like I said, I was seventeen years old at the time, one of the youngest survivors. I'm just afraid that at some point we won't have anyone to talk to to to get that information. It may also be possible to store and gather all this together and make it clear. And that is why I ask that, if that is possible, in the interests of clarity and peace of mind, it is reasonable to do once and for all.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U29	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U30	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Appreciation for coming here and talking! Your report gave me an interesting explanation. Not only do you admit the ramp was stuck, you used it to climb down, as I understand. In addition, other facts have emerged, such as that the ship has not yet known holes. Of course, I am of the opinion that all of this requires further investigation. But here's my question. During these long years, it is a long time to meet and discuss these same topics with other people who have escaped from Estonia. Do you mostly agree on the subject of the ramp and the whole investigation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U31	Thank you for your question. Maybe the next waitress can fix me. Maybe the detective who's been in contact with all the survivors can answer that. But as far as I know that night, two people used that ramp to jump into the water: me and Anti Arak. That's as far as I know. We have said this in our testimony, and we have said that many times, what has happened to it. I'm having a hard time adding something reasonable to it. This is our experience we've been through. That's how we saw it. Generally, they didn't want to talk about what happened in public, they didn't want to talk about it very much. It's something that, if I can describe it correctly, scratches open a lot of wounds. Despite the fact that I have been doing this for 26 years, repeatedly and repeatedly every year in September, it is not the easiest thing to do when we are here today. And I think that's why the people who got out of there haven't created any organization with each other aren't grouped together. They're all in so much pain, and they want to move on. They have accepted it and learned to live with it, and no one wants to experience it over and over again. I think that's why there hasn't been and hasn't been a lot of communication with each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U32	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Ain, you've been thanked many times for coming to this hall. I want to thank you for only four days after the shipwreck, you agreed to give me an interview on videotape. This was, in my opinion, a tremendously manly step on your part. But what I remember from this recording is, is it right, or is my memory not fooled? That you woke up on a really heavy ruckus. You almost fell out of bed, and then you heard another ruckus. I understand you said it wasn't explosives, but what do you think... Well, tell me a little more about this situation!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U34	Thank you for your question. Yeah, I've probably given countless of these interviews and the information has reached a lot of places and is accessible to everyone. We slept so that I was on the floor with Anti Arak, and Ülle Bear and Kristjan Raiend were in bed. I woke up on a really big slap and went down the hallway, and there was at least one more of them. At least in my experience, there were at least two of them. It's really hard for me to tell you now how much time there was between the two cracks that took place at what interval. I think maybe it was drawn out of the interviews and testimony of the survivors that actually happened there. But indeed, in my opinion, it was. I'm not an expert, I haven't heard an explosion sound. I just know what it could be like, and it seemed to me that it wasn't just explosions, but some kind of metal collisions, whether it was the visor's or something else. Maybe we can explain that in our investigation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U35	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U36	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Thank you for this presentation. But the question is about this show that I assume you've seen, which recently also ran as Channel 2. My question is about this show. Do you consider this series to be objective, and did this series add to your memories and to the puzzle you put together any pieces that you've been wondering about and which you hadn't been able to explain so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U37	Thank you for your question. Indeed, I have seen the series marked, and I have actually given long interviews to the show producer for its production. For me, the biggest surprise and discovery was the opening in the last episode, for which no one had made any comments before for one reason or another or for a third reason. Of course, it is my assessment, once again, but this series dealt with this opening and the whole situation, not in a very broad way, but in a concentrated way to this opening and theories associated with it. But I liked that the show also dealt with the behaviour patterns of the Swedish Government, which, as we look at Estonia here, are not so clearly visible and can't understand. I don't know if it's right or wrong, but at least the comments and the picture that was painted on this show will certainly arouse doubts or create confusion about the actions of a particular government in that situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U38	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U39	Honourable Vice President! Good waitress! You mentioned you were the last to board the ship. There are some reports where the truck driver, who arrived late on the ship, has said that after him there was still an empty space on the ship. But the other testimony, like yours, says that you were the last one and there was nothing left. Could you describe the ship again? Did you get there late, and then what was the situation at the docks? Many memories say that there were military personnel on the move and that there was a situation that was different from the usual one when the final one was on the move.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U40	Thank you for your question. First of all, I didn't have any previous experience getting on a Swedish ship by car, and I can't comment on whether it happened differently than usual. But we were too late to board the ship. Our supporter, Urmas Randma, who had lent us a Mercedes bus for transport, negotiated with a customs officer so that we could continue our journey, even though we did not have the authority to do so. This process took time, and when we got on the ship, we were the last one, or then Margus Kurm might be able to repair the penultimate car. In order for us to fit in, we had to repark once. So there was no room left after us, and the clock was definitely past the time of departure when we got there. No military vehicles or any strange behavior or unusual images I couldn't see at least at that point.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U41	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U42	Thank you, dear waitress. You said that some people are only now ready to describe what they have been through, that the survivors do not communicate regularly with each other and that what happened that night does not usually talk about. I'm asking if you got any help or support 26 years ago, just psychological help or support. And what would it be like to have the help you think the country could have provided so that people could cope better with their traumatic experiences, to move on and somehow to think this through, so that it doesn't bother them for life?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U43	Thank you for your question. At the time the event took place, it was 1994. The Estonian state was, of course, much younger and perhaps not as capable as it is at the moment. I have to admit, I didn't have a problem with my injuries when I got out. Antiga and I were both scratchless and unstuffed. After two years of the accident, however, I was basically an alcoholic. I tried to play sports, I was a candidate for the Sydney Olympics, but I still couldn't handle their problems on my own. I was offered psychological help, and just after the accident, there was a meeting in Paide. I don't remember who that person was talking to me about. At this point, I certainly have no reproach for the Estonian state, at least not specifically in this episode. I think everyone has to deal with their grief and concerns on their own. It is certainly possible to support it, but it is very important that this journey is passed and that peace is found within itself. I think I've found it for today. Well, yeah, I probably won't leave until it's very clearly and concretely proven what happened that night. This is something that simply does not allow a specific subject to be said goodbye in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U44	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U45	Thank you, President-in-Office. Thank you, dear waitress. This day makes me very emotional, especially because I should have been on this ship myself. With the creative collective, we went to sea the next day in the same way by ship. The storm was the same, and we basically emotionally tried to go through the situation you've been going through. That's why I'm saying it's a really great miracle that you're here today. You've answered a lot of questions, given your testimony about what happened that night. And I have this question: do you have any questions that were not asked of you, but what would you have liked to answer? I am asking this because perhaps a new Commission will be put together to question people again and try to find out the truth more than it has done so far. What are some of the questions that this Commission should ask? What should be given more attention so that it can really help us to move towards the truth beyond what has been achieved so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U46	Thank you for your question. I think that the most important reason why people have not spoken is the fear that if they say something perhaps wrong or if they say something, they will be ridiculed, as has been the case with many. Or fear for your health and everything else. I believe that the best way to conduct a new investigation would be to conduct an investigation that is as transparent, public, clear and unambiguous as possible, accessible to all. If we do another closed investigation, where a group discusses people, finds compromises and solutions, then in the light of what we've been through and what we've been through, I don't see that it's credible and it's working. In this form, I do not think it makes sense to do so. It should be public, open, and I am very sorry, but also as apolitical as possible. And once again, as I said before: I very much hope that this is an issue where everyday differences can be discarded, that we can make something very important clear together.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U47	One last question. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U48	Thank you. Since time is running out, I will ask you very briefly. Do you think this rather unprecedented grave truce that was proclaimed could be an obstacle to the ship's investigation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U49	Thank you for your question. I think this issue is addressed to lawyers, but my personal biggest concern about this investigation or investigation is that we cannot complete the technical investigation as an Estonian state or at our request. We cannot do this because we are bound by this Treaty of Tomb Peace or politically linked to Finland and Sweden. I just have the impression. Whether this is possible in any way, maybe the Secretary of State, maybe the lawyers who know the laws and can interpret them and see them. It's just my assessment of what I can do from the information I have.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U50	Thank you very much, dear waitress. The time allowed for the presentation and answers to the questions is up. We will hear the next presentation by Margus Kurm, Chairman of the Government Investigation Commission in 2005-2009. Here's the chair, please! Presentation up to 30 minutes and questions-answers also up to 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U51	Mr President, Members of the Riigikogu and all the other listeners! I am very pleased to have the opportunity to talk about this important issue here today. And even more, I am pleased to hear and answer your questions. There is so much information about the disaster in Estonia that it is simply not possible to tell everything at the same time. In the grand plan, there are three views of the ferry's disaster in Estonia. One is loyal to the official version. According to this, the final report published by the Joint International Commission in 1997 on the cause of the shipwreck provides a final and exhaustive truth. The second view is diplomatically skeptical. According to this, the work of the Committee of Inquiry was incomplete and therefore the cause of the shipwreck is still unclear, i.e. no version can be definitively confirmed or refuted. There's a third view next to these two. According to this, Estonia did not drown as stated in the official final report, while the real cause of the disaster is known, but it has been hidden for 26 years and will continue to be hidden. I share the last view. I really think that Estonia drowned because of something that the Swedish government has decided to hide on the pretext of protecting national security. What happened, I don't know, but it has to be connected to the Swedish defence forces and/or special services. Only with the influence of the defence forces and the special services, including the power of politicians, can I say, explain the Swedish Government's actions in the 26 years following the disaster. In my opinion, this activity has been irrational and insensitive. It is impossible to believe that, after the disaster, the Swedish State did not use its technical capabilities to investigate the causes of the disaster. 852 people are on the sea bed, most of them Swedes, but the Swedish government does nothing, divers and robots remain on the shore and submarines remain in port. Can you believe it? I can't. I therefore believe that the research ships were actually expelled as soon as possible. What divers and robots did at the bottom of the sea and saw, they just don't talk about it. It is also impossible to understand everything that has been done under the pretext of ensuring a grave truce under the leadership of the Swedish Government. As early as the end of 1994, the Swedish Government adopted a decision to cover the wreckage with concrete. Despite the strong opposition of those who died, this unprecedented decision was taken in the history of the maritime sector. Thousands of tons of sand, gravel, and rubble were poured around the wreckage, preventing access to the north of the ship. In addition, a Treaty of Cemetery was launched, which was signed in February 1995 with Estonia and Finland. Even before the International Commission of Inquiry had completed its work, the investigation of the wreckage was made legally and physically impossible. This is not normal research. It is also impossible to understand the misunderstandings that sent the only known diving operation carried out in December 1994 by private companies. I don't have time to read all the events that sent me this operation today, but I'm still talking about some of them. The first relates to films made on the seabed during the operation, of which two original copies were at the beginning. According to the contract, one original contractor and the other one remained with the Swedish Maritime Administration. The workman destroyed his original shortly after the completion of the work. However, the fate of the original left to the customer is unknown, either lost or secreted. Imagine: 852 people's fatal catastrophe is being investigated, but the most important evidence, a film made in a wreck, will be lost, will be lost before the members of the committee of inquiry can see it! And it wasn't the only evidence that went missing. According to the official version, the shipwreck was caused by the wreckage of the bow visor's locks and the visor crashed into the sea. The biggest and strongest of the visor locks was the bottom lock, which was also called the Atlantic lock. It worked like a big latch, where the seal was pushed through the hull and the ear of the lock attached to the visor by means of a hydro-behaviour. During the diver studies, the seal was welded open and brought to the surface for further examination. There was no closer investigation because Börje Stenstrom, the only member of the joint commission involved in the diving operation, threw the bolt back into the sea, destroying one of the most important evidence. The next important misunderstanding relates to the dispute as to whether the northern hull was looked at and filmed in the first place. This dispute has now emerged with regard to the hole found by Norwegian documentaries in the centre of the ship. Why not take this 1994 film and see if there's a rock or not near that hole? However, it is not possible to do so, as the film reflecting the observation of the hull consists mainly of breaks. We'll find the next entry in the log on the central survey of the ship. At 19.53, the robot descends at the mud's edge in the middle of the ship. One minute later, the depth is fixed at 88 meters. Another minute later, the recording will be canceled. The recording will continue at 20:22 p.m., 27 minutes later. In short, in the middle of the ship, where the filmmakers found a hole, the robot delivered 27 minutes. What he saw or did there, we don't know because it wasn't recorded. To conclude, I will mention what happened to the representative of the Estonian Government, who participated in the operation with Aarne Valgma. When divers were instructed, he was not allowed to enter the room. The policeman stood at the door and sent the Estonian back to his cabin. Unbelievable! The death of a ship flying the flag of Estonia will be investigated, but if plans are made, the Estonian will be left at the door. It's like there's nothing to say. Important evidence is left unrecorded or simply destroyed, while original films made on the seabed disappear without trace and the flag State representative is excluded from making plans. If errors had been one or two, or if a daily accident had been investigated, one might believe that these errors were due to folly or negligence. However, since this was the worst modern maritime accident in the Baltic Sea, it seems that the purpose of the diver surveys in December 1994 was not to identify the truth but, on the contrary, to make it impossible to detect the truth. In the same spirit, there have also been subsequent investigations by the Swedish Government. For example, the one concerning the carriage of military equipment aboard Estonia one week and two before the shipwreck, which was disclosed by former customs official Lennart Henriksson. This investigation was conducted by a man, Judge Johan Hirschfeldt. He met with the heads of the public authorities concerned, but not with the whistle-blower customs officer, nor with the specific intelligence officer who carried out the operation. Neither did Johan Hirschfeld thoroughly examine the work of the International Commission of Inquiry or the criminal investigation in Sweden. Neither did Johan Hirschfeldt contact the company allegedly owned the car used to transport military equipment. After the investigation was concluded, Judge Hirschfeldt destroyed all the materials collected. If the former customs officer Lennart Henriksson's story was at least verified, then the other whistleblower has simply been ignored. In 2000, a Swedish citizen, Håkan Bergmark, informed journalists that he had participated in a diving operation in the Swedish Defence Forces' dive group at the Estonia wreck a few days after the accident. His mission was to explore and film the bow section of the ship, where he discovered a hole on the right side of the ship with a large explosion sign. The hole was of elongated shape, estimated to be about four metres high and reached both below and above the waterline. Håkan Bergmark not only spoke in August, but described the entire operation thoroughly. Among other things, he mentioned the name of the officer in charge of the operation. Perhaps using the terminology of the case, Håkan Bergmark created every opportunity to verify his claims. Yet it has never been done. No investigation has been initiated to investigate its claims. Inquiries sent by journalists have been answered by the Swedish Defence Forces that they are not obliged to investigate or comment. 15 years ago, I also tried to meet the officer in charge of the operation, but I was not allowed to do so. It wouldn't have much meaning before everything if the official version of the shipwreck were convincing. But this version is not convincing. The visor version, as recorded in the final report, is no longer the subject of discussion. For the last 20 years, there has been an as-the-style discussion of its various modifications. Some experts consider this to be more, some to be less likely, some to be completely excluded. If there's any consensus at all, there's nothing clear to the end. Even all investigations initiated and financed by governments have ended with the conclusion that the visor version is the most likely, but not the only one possible. I will then try to explain very briefly what the problem of the so-called visor version is. According to the Joint Commission's final report, the cause of the shipwreck was that the bow visor's locks broke, the visor fell into the sea and opened the bow ramp wide open. There was a large amount of water in an open-wing car deck, the ship sank to the right, and 35 minutes later it died. This could not have been the case, has been made up of several experts. When a passenger ship falls into a large heel, the windows and exterior doors of cabins, cafes and other passenger spaces remain under water. Because of the waves and water pressure, the windows and doors break, the water gets into the superstructure, and in a few minutes, the ship goes around. As the transition is rapid, the air is trapped in the watertight bottom of the ship and does not allow the ship to sink. Fast around and slowly to the north, so all cruise ships that have lost stability have behaved before and after Estonia. Some examples. A ship named Herald of Free Enterprise left the port of Zeebrugge with an open visor. They just forgot to close the visor. When the ship was speeding, the water got into the car deck, and the ship went around in 90 seconds. Although it was near the shore, 188 people died. Just because in 90 seconds it wasn't possible to react, save yourself from the ship. A similar accident occurred in 2015 on the Yangtse River by passenger ship Eastern Star. The wind pushed the ship to the heels, and in less than a minute this ship turned up its bottom. From the river, where the shores were a stone throw away, seven of the 454 people made it to shore. The Senegalese vessel Joola, which brought 1863 people to the sea floor, went around in five minutes and drowned only 16 hours later. Estonia did exactly the opposite. Estonia remained upright for about half an hour, and once it went around, it sank to the bottom. A little bit more specific. If the ramp had opened completely, it would have required 2,000 tons of water to reach the car deck in two or three minutes, and in the next two or three minutes the ship would have gone completely around. If this had happened, no one would have gotten off this ship. But he did. About 300 people arrived on the outside, 137 of whom were rescued. In short. In theoretical terms, there are two major issues to which the final report of the Joint Committee does not answer and to which no one else has found a convincing answer. It is unknown why Estonia didn't go around quickly and how the water got under the car deck to sink the ship. All alternative theories kind of revolve around the hole at the bottom of the ship. And indeed, if we assume that there is a hole in the northern hull, the above-mentioned problems will fall away. The water that entered August would inevitably have gathered together on one side and put the ship to the heels. Only the growth of the heel would in this case have been slower and evener. And, of course, in the case of "hole theory," the question is, how did water get into the spaces underneath the car deck? However, the version of the ship's drowning time frame, according to which at the same time the sea water had access to both the car deck and the spaces under it, is a good match. To sum it up. As long as it has not been proven that Estonia's hull is intact, it is not theoretically possible to rule out the versions that require a hole in the north of the ship. It is as difficult as the official version has to cope with theoretical objections, to make it match the statements of those who escape from the ship. First of all, the ramp. As has been said, according to the official version, the water was released from the ship's fully open bow ramp. However, no survivors at any time have seen that the ramp was loose. However, there are five witnesses who claim otherwise. A mechanic in the machine control room has said that shortly after one o'clock, he felt two strong blows, and after a few moments the ship sank into the heels. He stood up and looked at the monitor where he saw the water pressing in from the side of the ramp. Then came the room from the motorist and soon also the system engineer. Motorist remembers he was in the workshop, when the ship was in the heels, then went to the engine control room and looked at the monitor. He too saw, but the ramp was in the front, and the rims were pressed with water. The system engineer was on deck zero in the sewage room when he heard three successive thrusts. When the ship sank into the heels, he went into the control room of the machine, looked at the monitor and saw what others saw: the ramp was in place and water came in from its edges. When the motorist and the system engineer left the room, the screen was 20 to 30 degrees. When the mechanic left, the screen was definitely over 30 degrees. So within 20 minutes, the crene grew from zero to 30 degrees. But the ramp was in a closed position the whole time. Everyone who's tried to prove the visor version has been tangled with these testimony. Tried one way or the other, but in the end, a simple decision has been made: the sailors who have escaped lie. And that's it! There is no way to reconcile these three statements with the visor version. Therefore, those who believe in the official version will inevitably believe that the escaped Estonian sailors are lying. And these aren't the only statements that interfere with the theory. The previous speaker explained how he and his companion climbed down the ramp when the ship was already on its side, or at least 90 degrees high. As you have already heard, these statements have also been overlooked as if they did not exist. The joint committee's statement on the opening of the ramp is based, on the one hand, on a theoretical debate that, since the end of the visor was over the ramp, it simply had to pull the ramp when it fell, and, on the other hand, on the fact that the ramp's fixings and hinges were damaged. Both arguments are relevant, but not irrefutable. The tip of the visor really went over the end of the ramp, but they were not attached to each other. It is quite possible that, figuratively speaking, the wave lifted the visor over the ramp. Neither can the existence of ramp injuries be denied, except that different experts have explained their formation differently. Moreover, the existence of injuries does not automatically conclude that they occurred in the early stages of the accident. The same thing with the visor: that the visor is out of the way doesn't mean it got out of the way right at the beginning of the accident. It's possible the visor bent out of the way while the ship was at its heels. In fact, that is very likely. Each structure can withstand better when it is used as intended and is more vulnerable to abnormal use. The visor is built to drive straight, pointy against the wave. Locks and souls will then be hit more or less by the same force. When the ship is sidelined, the waves hit one side of the visor, which means that the fixings on one side are subject to much greater pressure. There are experts whose studies show that ramp and visor injuries indicate precisely that the visor was separated while the ship was in high heels, i.e. that the release of the visor didn't cause the heel, but vice versa, the screen caused the visor to break down and the visor to separate. To sum it up. The assessments made by the Joint Committee on visor and ramp injuries have been challenged by other experts. I am not saying that these other experts are smarter than those accompanied by the Joint International Commission. The problem is that different experts often disagree. As a former prosecutor, I know that well. Even with the simplest damage to health, there may be a situation where two 'national experts' reach different positions. That is why what the Witnesses, in this case, are talking about, is important. It is therefore important to check alternative versions as well. The next very important fact, in which the Joint International Commission has been very free to go about the statements of the survivors, concerns the start of this accident. According to the Joint Commission's final report, the visor was released at 1.15 p.m. and the witnesses' statements have been summed up in such a way that during the previous ten minutes passengers noticed unusual sounds. If you read these protocols, you'll have a different image. Let me give you a few examples. These are the quotations from the protocols. 'I was in my cabin on deck one when I realized the storm was very strong. I fell from bed on the floor. At the same time, I heard a big bang that was so hard, I flew into the wall of the cabin. I can't tell you where that bang came from. It's like a ship crashed into something. The ship just started swinging really hard. ' Next: 'Shortly before the ship began to sink on one side, I felt a strong impulse that sounded like a bang. ' Next: 'About 30 seconds to one minute apart, two small metallic blows sounded, and after about 40 to 50 seconds, there was a very strong blow, which was also metallic. I felt like the ship was being pushed in sideways, like a hammer hit against the hull. ' 'I woke up in my cabin at about 1 a.m. on deck four, as if the ship had crashed into something or crashed into a pack. When I woke up, the ship was so high that I fell from the top bunk to the floor. ' 'I was in my cabin when I felt that the ship was sinking into a deep wave. I asked my husband what time it was, and I received the answer that one (or, Swedish time, 12 o'clock). A moment later something snapped, everything went down in the cabin, and the ship went down on one side. The engines were silent. ' 'I slept when I woke up to hear a strange voice that I couldn't describe. The ship was at its heels. It felt like it was on the ground. 'Jne, et cetera. Thus, people are not talking about unusual sounds that sounded in ten minutes, but about up to three successive strong impulses, a blow, a bang that was perceived at one o'clock and after which the ship sank into a discerning heel. The Joint Commission has thus distorted both the perception of the description of people and the time of perception. The absolute majority of the survivors who gave the time setting speak of one o'clock. The Commission decided, however, that the visor was set off with a bang and the ship sank to heel at 1.15 p.m. This may seem a minor distortion and may ask why such a distortion. The reason is simple: it was necessary to shorten the time for the ship to remain upright. The joint committee also realised that when the ramp opened at one o'clock, it could not be at 1.26 to be at 20°30 degrees, as recorded in the second mate's lyrics in the Mayday announcement. As I said earlier, 2,000 tons of water would be needed to create a 40-degree heel in a few minutes. To sum it up. The official version is largely aligned with the theory of calculations and calculations, which have little to do with what the survivors remember. The final report is a beautifully written account, which, when read, seems plausible, but whose evidence base is weak. This is also the reason why very many people, including me, cannot agree with the conclusions of the Joint Committee's final report. That's it for now. Thank you for listening, and I am happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U52	Thank you very much, dear waitress. The members of the Riigikogu do indeed have a number of questions. Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, It was appalling listening to what you said. But my question concerns the testimony given by both Ain-Alar Juhanson and four others. Have these statements been destroyed or are they in files that are hidden? What about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U54	No, these statements have not been destroyed. They are available, inter alia, in a criminal file which gathers the material collected during the criminal proceedings initiated in respect of the event. They've never been hidden, classified, they've always been known. They've just been ignored.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U55	Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I had a chance to see Captain Piht and the dancer twin sisters come out of the minivan and enter the house twice on the news. They were added to the list but later deleted. The same clip was seen by Captain Confessor and friend of his crew, who were about to accept a new ship in Germany. Later, this clip was removed from the news. How real do you think it is that Captain Piht pulled himself off the list and disappeared voluntarily with his colleagues, I insist, voluntarily, and also had the clip removed from the news?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U57	That Captain Confess had a chance to remove some news clip, I find it very unlikely. Otherwise, I find it difficult to answer that question. I can just say that in the 15 years I've been dealing with this subject, I've met dozens of people who claim to have seen such a clip.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U58	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U59	Good manager! Good waitress! As a former lead prosecutor, you are quite familiar with the power structures and special services. If it is true that at the time the Russian and Swedish defence forces and special services were carrying out some sort of armaments on Estonia, I wonder whether these real reasons are hidden in Russia's or Sweden's secret archives and, as long as they do not open, not all of our efforts will lead to further investigation anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U60	I really don't agree that further investigations couldn't lead anywhere. If we could really go to that wreck of the ship, remove the piled sand and gravel around the wreck, film the wreck, fix all the damage there, thoroughly examine them, model how they might have occurred, model different formation mechanisms, then we could come to some conclusion. For example, to conclude that this ship has crashed into something, and that something may have been a submarine. Once we have come to this knowledge, we can ask questions to the Swedish side. But such knowledge, as it spreads, can also motivate some people who know more than others to disclose their knowledge, perhaps a new whistleblower might appear to help us further in this story. Even if the truth is in seven locked archives, an increasing knowledge can lead to further progress. Also very well-classified and cleverly committed crimes are sometimes discovered.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U61	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U62	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In your report, the charges against the Swedish state were quite serious and the subject of the explosion went through, although at least one Finnish maritime accident expert has claimed that this new hole is actually the result of an external blow. But that's it. I'd rather focus on the subject of the ramp. Can you claim that all those people you've questioned from the ship have said that the ramp was in a closed position? And another thing: the last waitress, Ain-Alar Juhanson, claimed that he used the ramp to get off the ship. Can you rule out the version that the visor pulled the ramp open, the water got in, but before people got out and saw the ramp, the ramp shut itself off with the water coming in, or something? That he was open at first and then closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U63	I'll start answering from the back, if you'll excuse me. The version that the ramp came loose and then closed again cannot be excluded. Among other things, Estonia has been subject to one of the most in-depth scientific investigations undertaken by a consortium of different scientific institutions, called the SSPA consortium, on behalf of the Swedish Government. These scientists also suggested, among other things, that the visor fell out of the way, opened the ramp, quite a lot of water went in, and then the ramp closed again with the effects of the waves. This option has been proposed. True, these scientists themselves gave up this version for two reasons. Firstly, for the reason that the so-called violently unraveled structure cannot close again by itself. More specifically, there were handrails at the edge of the ramp, and there were safety cables, very thick wire ropes. When the ramp was pulled open, and then it was pushed up again by the waves on the ship in the heel, these handrails and cables had to be between them, which would have prevented the ramp from closing. That's one reason. And the other reason. If the ramp really came loose, a lot of water threw in, the ramp closed again, then the question arises, under the influence of which the screen continued to grow. If the water was in the ship, a certain amount of water was causing the heels, that should have been the situation. What, then, was it that caused the heel to grow? In short, the answer is that it is not excluded, but it is not considered very likely. However, if, for example, we add a known hole on the right side of the ship to this version, then we will reach a much more possible version. Perhaps, the ramp came loose, the water threw in, the ramp closed, the water had come so much that it pushed the ship to the heels, the hole that Discovery's filmmakers discovered was underwater, and the water began to penetrate. It is estimated that if the hole we know today is at a depth of one metre, there will be 2.7 tonnes per second, which will cause the crayon to grow and the ship will sink later. So, this version, which starts the way you propose, plus the effect of this hole, becomes more realistic. That's one. Now, the first part of the question. As far as all the witnesses are concerned, I have not questioned all the witnesses myself. I was only questioning those whose testimony left something in the air. Ain-Alar Juhanson, for example. For me, it was a big surprise that such a statement had been rejected. But I have indeed read all the testimony, and no one has spoken that he had seen an open ramp. There can't be too many of these people, because the ramp was only visible from the car deck. And you could see it on the car deck by someone who happened to be there, or the camera. There can't be too many of these people. Just in connection with them, with the testimony of these three men in the engine room, it's important that they respond to the ship sinking into the heels. After that, they looked into the camera. They were in the engine room watching that camera for 10 to 20 minutes. And all this time, the crayon grew, but the ramp was still stuck.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U64	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U65	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable performer! As your former state prosecutor and I as a former criminal investigator, we know what the purpose of the investigation is. After all, the purpose of the investigation is to identify all the facts and, on this basis, to identify the causes of the event or the causes of the event. This conclusion and that decision, since it is based on all the facts established in advance, should be the sole and final position. Now I have the question: how do you explain that the final report on the destruction of Estonia we are talking about as an official version?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U66	I think that this is being spoken of as an official version, or at least I am speaking for the reason that it is the only report prepared by the Commission with a mandate. This untimely joint international commission was set up to clarify the causes of the shipwreck. This committee recorded its findings in that report and subsequently no such committee, whose task would be to explain the causes of the shipwreck, has been set up. Therefore, in my opinion, no other report can be called formal. I hope I answered your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U67	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U68	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In its report, the International Commission of Inquiry mainly dealt with individual technical details relating to the visor and stopped them very thoroughly, while many human aspects related to the accident were overlooked. Now we are talking about a technical investigation. If we look at this topic, at these patterns and things that have been hidden or blurred, they include, for example, Captain Confess and the stories of the other missing persons or the cargo on the vehicle deck or the people on the navigating bridge, then my question is: can this study be conducted exhaustively without taking into account the whole picture and all aspects?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U69	I think every investigation will determine the task of this investigation. If the task of investigating is to determine the condition of the wreckage or hull of the ship, there is no need to carry out this task much more than to send a robot or diver down, or by other techniques to observe it, and subsequently analyse, model these injuries, etc. When such a study task is set up, it does not require an analysis of all subjects. If you mean that we can get much closer to the truth without trying to find answers to all the questions we have, I think that is actually possible. And, frankly, I myself would be a little scared if a Commission was now set up and given a comprehensive investigative task. Then this committee can get stuck. I will not at all rule out such an approach to move forward step by step, naturally in view of the big picture, but to start with these underwater studies and to move forward according to these results. But what I really don't like at all is the term 'technical research'. What do you mean? Technically or not technically, it is important, as I said, to clean the wreckage of the sand, gravel and rubble and film it as a whole, to take the necessary samples, etc., so to speak, to carry out a proper evidence check, using the terminology of criminal investigations. I don't know if I answered your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U70	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U71	Good President! Honourable waitress! I would like to thank you for your presentation today and for the way you have covered this topic in the Estonian media. My question again concerns the bow visor. I guess we've seen a lot of photos of this visor and these injuries. For years, I've been haunted by the fact that when I look at the injuries on the visor, they seem somehow to have been caused by a sharp object. Was it modeled on whether the injuries we see were actually caused by the so-called pear belt or the egg? If you look at it, it's more like it's a sharp object damage. Has it been modeled?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U72	I admit, I'm also obsessed with these injuries. As far as I am concerned, these injuries have not been modelled, i.e. they have not attempted to match this pear or pulp, whatever the name of the round thing in the front of the ship. And it's also one simple thing to start with, here neither the Treaty of Cemetery nor anything else interferes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U73	Now the Anti-Semimets.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U74	Good waitress! In your report, you repeatedly highlighted very suspicious circumstances in preventing the investigation, especially on the Swedish side, including the distortion of testimony, distorted treatment, etc. There are many examples. After all, these are elements of crime when the investigation is actually stopped, and there should be quite a lot of them in these cases. You could study things like that. But the question is, during the period of the Swedish leadership of your committee of inquiry, how was your actions treated on the Swedish side? Was it suspicious or supportive, or were there obstacles?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U75	This certainly was not supportive. In fact, I did not receive any answers to any of the questions with which I went to Sweden. The pattern was quite similar: at first it was promised and then it was said that it could not. Yeah, that's the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U76	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Margus Kurm! You were the head of this shipwreck investigation commission more than ten years ago, and today you expressed a very specific number of questions about this investigation and about the causes of the shipwreck that have occurred earlier in the media and in the public. My question is this: does this final document or report of the shipwreck investigation contain your differences of opinion at the time, or even one of the differences that you had in your heart? And if you don't mind, tell me again what it takes to make sure that everyone whose friends or relatives died there can have a calm heart and the truth will finally come to light.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U78	First of all, I have to explain that in 1997, when the International Commission of Inquiry signed its report, I studied at the university and knew almost nothing about this story. This commission, which I led, was formed in 2005 and its first task was to clarify whether the Estonian authorities or the Estonian authorities were involved in the transport of military equipment which had come to light in Sweden. These were the circumstances of Lennart Henriksson, a whistle-blower customs officer. That was the first assignment. Later, the government extended the mandate several times, and we were given the task of examining whether there were any issues to which this untimely study report, signed in 1997, did not provide clear answers. In a sense, this committee, led by me, dealt with the evaluation of the conclusions expressed in the final report of the previous committee of inquiry and the issues raised by'side by side' or'side by side'. We tried to check whether the claims made about Estonia's disaster had any ground for truth and whether the criticism of the final report of the Committee of Inquiry was justified or not. That was the job we did. Now the second question: what should we do now? As I have said here many times today, and in the last two months I have repeatedly said in the media: I believe that this wreck of the ship should start with a review. It should be cleaned from sand, gravel, rubble and filmed as far as possible as possible. After that, this material can be analyzed. If this is done, then, as in the case of a normal study, the possible hypotheses that may have happened must be erected and then systematically checked for these hypotheses. What is important is that we do not immediately associate ourselves with one particular version, but that these hypotheses are erected several times and that we try to evaluate everyone. It is possible, even quite likely, that during the examination of these hypotheses, there is also a need to re-examine the survivors or to address other adjoining issues. Perhaps in short, at last, this wreck should be reviewed and filmed as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U79	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U80	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question concerns this grave treaty. How does this agreement extend to these countries, or how does it affect, for example, a research ship flying the flag of those countries which has not acceded to it? I mean, possible new underwater research. And the accompanying question: what are the legal possibilities of the Republic of Estonia to exit this agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U81	It's a very big subject. And as you've probably heard, as many as there are lawyers, so many opinions. It is the easiest way to answer this first question. This agreement will have no effect on the ships of States not party to this agreement. If, for example, a ship from Germany or another country which has not acceded to this agreement wishes to stop above the wreck and send divers down, this cannot be prevented. It is possible, as this Norwegian case of filmmakers shows, that if there is a Swedish citizen on this ship, the Swedish State can still punish its own citizen. But he can't stop the rest of the crew from working or the operation of this ship. As far as the punitive nature of diving on the wreck in Estonia is concerned, I am of the opinion that only a dive that desecrates this grave, such as stealing something from it, can be punished. If diving is carried out for investigation purposes or for some environmental protection purpose, then it cannot be punished in Estonia. What are Estonia's chances of withdrawing from this agreement? International law provides for a variety of options here. One way is, of course, always to agree with others. The second option is to conclude that new circumstances have emerged that were not known at the time of the conclusion of the contract and to withdraw from it. There are a few more of these possibilities. However, the specific question is that, where there are also different opinions, whether this agreement binds states at all or whether it is intended only to prevent 'private' activity. There are also those specialists in international law who think that this agreement does not restrict the activities of the countries themselves. Perhaps if Estonia wishes to carry out these diving operations, it will have the opportunity to do so. But I fully understand that, of course, there is also an external dimension here, and legal certainty is certainly not unique.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U82	Thank you very much, dear waitress. The time allowed for the presentation and answers to the questions is up. Once again, thank you very much. We will be listening to the third presentation by Kalle Grünthal, a member of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Here you go! Presentation up to 15 minutes and questions-answers up to 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U83	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good listeners and watchers in this hall and via television! Today, the important national question 'Estonia's death' is going to take place in this Chamber, will the truth finally rise to the surface? ' debate. I am convinced that the reopening of the sinking of the passenger ferry Estonia is undoubtedly one of the most important national issues discussed in this Chamber. Estonia drowned in the north of the Baltic Sea on the night of September 28, 1994, on a planned trip from Tallinn to Stockholm. Of the 989 people on board the ship, 137 survived, and 852 remained in the wet grave. All 95 casualties from the sea were identified, but 757 people are still missing. After Estonia drowned on 28 September 1994, a joint accident investigation committee was set up in accordance with the agreement between Estonia, Finland and Sweden and the decision of the prime ministers of these countries on 29 September 1994. The Commission had three members from each country. As the ship was flying the flag of Estonia, an Estonian representative was appointed chairman of the committee. In addition, experts from each country participated in the work of the Commission. In December 1997, the Commission presented a final report. I quote from the final report: 'The Commission has carefully examined all available information directly related to the accident and rescue. This information includes documents and evidence concerning the ship and its service history, witness testimony, weather and sea conditions analysis, scuba diving results, and studies of the visor raised from the sea floor. In addition to the above, for the sake of full understanding, the Commission has launched a series of theoretical and experimental studies on the ship's behaviour in waves and loads, structural strength and stability in the discharge of water. The Commission has also considered it necessary to examine the design and performance of the ship and to gather information on previous injuries to visors, as well as an analysis of legal and administrative circumstances. The final report shall cover all factors and circumstances which may have affected the course of the accident and its consequences. In its report, the Commission presents facts, analyses and assessments, conclusions drawn from the work carried out, as well as recommendations to prevent such accidents in the future. The main aim of the accident investigation was to identify the circumstances and causes of the accident in order to increase safety at sea and prevent new accidents. The Commission's task is not to assign responsibility or to accuse anyone, except to the extent that it has proved necessary to achieve the main objectives of the Commission's work. ' The report is ready. But why are there more questions than answers? What to think about the conclusions of the final report on the accident that has taken place in the form of joint work by these three countries, as a number of issues related to the accident remain unanswered. For example, the sudden withdrawal of the death penalty and the decision to cover the ship with concrete for the purpose of protecting the grave truce, the mysterious disappearance of Captain Avo Pehti on the list of survivors and seven crew members, the inter-country secret military equipment carried on board a passenger ship, the strange deaths of ship and customs workers after the shipwreck, the concealment and destruction of evidence reflecting the death of Estonia (I am referring to the wreckage of underwater original films). What can be concluded from the fact that it was not the task of the Committee of Inquiry to identify the causes of the accident and the person responsible, i.e. to clarify all the circumstances of the accident? 852 people have died, but the Committee of Inquiry did not want to know who may have caused hundreds of people to die from the greatest catastrophe in the peace period, whose actions or omissions caused the accident. One thing is obvious. The joint Estonian-Finnish-Swedish investigation committee established in connection with the death of the ferry Estonia has disgraced the principle of independent, dignified and fair investigation. Let me be clear: in relation to the conclusions of this committee of inquiry, the door must be shut with a bang and the new investigation must restore the dignity of the Estonian state. These 852 people left in the wet grave are not a statistical number. People's lives have been interrupted, mourned by their loved ones and loved ones. It must be a duty of honor for our country to find out the facts and the truth that has taken place. I have previously made serious criticism of the work of the Committee of Inquiry, and I will continue here at a narrower level, on the basis of a 212-page final report available to the public and, for my part, by adding two examples of manipulation of evidence and conclusions. First, the visor. I quote the official conclusion: 'Before the ESTONIAn disaster, numerous bow-writing accidents occurred several times earlier and simultaneously with ESTONIA on a ship built for Finnish/Swedish traffic. These included DIANA II, a sister ship of ESTONIA, but this experience did not lead to systematic inspections of ships and requirements for strengthening visor anchorages on other ships. No systematic information was collected or disseminated on the wreckage accidents in shipping circles. Thus, as a rule, the captains had very little knowledge of the potential threat associated with bow bowers. ' That is not true, because Estonia had a common occurrence of a bow-visor accident. Numerous Witnesses have provided information that there was even an agreement with the ship's command that if the visor were to unfold spontaneously as a result of wave blows, then it would not even be necessary to inform the management, the watchman must start pumps, close the Atlantic lock and, after the water is out, stop the pumps. I quote the official conclusion once again: 'According to the information collected as a result of extensive investigations, no other repairs have been carried out with visor and ramp locking devices or at all in the area during the entire period of the ship's registration. " However, Estonia suffered ice injuries in 1982, 1985 and 1987. 'They were also accompanied by bow visor injuries. The first sign was trivial [---]. The latter was the most extensive of them and the belt, which was originally above the reinforced plate belt, was replaced by a new belt. [---] No injuries or repairs have been recorded for Visir zippers, locking devices and bottoms. ' And another quote from the report: 'After the accident, it was found that a trainee who temporarily worked in the boarding crew had noticed cracks in the weld between the sides of the visor's hinge and the hinges. The cracks appeared in the lower deck side of the angle seams. There was one crack about 100 mm long in the ears of the right-handed soul and the other a shorter crack. One left-wing hinge had a crack about 60 mm long in the ear. There were no cracks in the closed visor. ' Again a false claim and a contradiction in the evidence: the visor's locking device contained injuries that were known to many crew members, the ship's management, as well as the fleet's technical maintenance base, who had even prepared an order for welding visor structures. For some reason, this vital fact is not mentioned in the report. Even less, a causal link has been sought between the release of the damaged ship on the line and the disaster. Wouldn't it be worth looking here for a response to Captain Confess' mysterious disappearance, because the captain has the ultimate and ultimate responsibility for the safe conduct of ship operations? And doesn't the tragic threads reach the Estonian Maritime Administration from here? The fact that the testimony of the officially questioned witness regarding the vital damage to the ship's structure is classified in the final report is beyond comprehension. As a result, all scientific experiments and the strength calculations of visor structures relating to the impact load on visor and its resistance to waves have also been made with insufficient baseline data, as the fact that metal was cracked in the visor's design has not been taken into account. Another example: wreck injuries or holes in the hull of the ship. According to official theory, the ship was sunk as a result of the wrecking of the bow bow bow, but for many, the question remains of the ship's rapid sinking. Some experts believe that without a hole, the ship would have sunk down for a much longer time and rather remained on the surface for hours. However, the presence of a hole in the hull of the ship is not reflected in the final report. And only after last September was the Swedish director Henrik Evertsson's film crew boarded the ship, the public became aware that there was a hole of considerable size on the right side of Estonia. That's not all. In particular, Estonian experts, who saw some of the so-called black material of diving, claim that at one point another additional injury appeared, along the welded seam the plate of the ship was longitudinally torn apart. The length of the rupture was estimated to be a few metres and a width of several ten centimetres. On the basis of the above, it is reasonable to believe that denying the existence of a hole in the final report was a conscious and deliberate decision. I dare call it a criminal activity. That there was a hole in the hull of the ship was actually observed a day after the disaster. The German newspaper Expressen was told about this by the navy demining diver Bergmark, who returned from diving. The data was published this afternoon in an early edition of the centre of Stockholm Expressen, but the newspaper was quickly removed from the counters and the diving data in the later edition was no longer available. The source of information is, by the way, written to me by a former member of the Swedish Parliament. More hole found in the hull. No possible version of this mechanism should be discarded: no collision with the submarine, no other versions, nor the assumption among the maritime figures that a hole in Estonia could have occurred during the mooring at the quay, when the ship, with its large mass, collapsed on the runners with strong wind and waves and then went to sea with a hole in the hull. What can we conclude? We already have a bad experience of the work of the Committee of Inquiry, the conclusions of which in the final report do not coincide with the vital and logical facts. That is why I would like to emphasise once again: we must act forcefully to identify the real causes of the accident and all the circumstances and to identify the circle of persons whose acts or omissions have led to the disaster with the highest number of casualties in the peace period. Someone has to take responsibility! Under no circumstances must we give in to the pressures of the various political forces and interest groups who are trying to prevent us from doing so. And here the Estonian Conservative People's Party announces that it is trying to do its utmost to ensure that the investigation is independent, transparent and reliable and open to the public as much as is procedurally possible. This is our country's court of honor because the souls of 852 victims who died demand it. No matter how harsh the truth is, the truth must rise to the surface. I'm done.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U84	Thank you very much, Honorable waitress. You have questions too. Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U85	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! We base ourselves on a number of circumstances, such as the fact that according to Estonian law, the deceased's death certificate can be obtained by the closest relative who decides where to bury the deceased; the fact that the ship is located in the Estonian territorial area, in Estonian waters; and the fact that our law allows us to bury the deceased after 20 years of burial in the cemetery, and this is not a violation of the grave truce. In view of all three factors: does Estonia not, however, have the right to continue the investigation and to take decisions on its own? What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U86	Thank you, good questioner! To be honest, I am not quite sure that Estonia's wreck lies in Estonian waters. Maybe this is where our opinions differ. As far as the dead who have remained on the ship are concerned, in my opinion, the decision made at the level of the Estonian Government that these victims must be left on the ship is not in accordance with Estonian law. No Estonian law gives the government the right to do so. A loved one who died is family and tribe, and they decide what happens to the remains of the deceased. As regards the reopening of the investigation, this is my assessment. The current final report of Estonia's doom is rattled from every end, just like a Soviet-time tractor after 30 years. All the bolts fall off, and in fact, there's only a few moments to wait for him to stop once and for all. We can't work on this tractor anymore. The same is true of the opening of this new investigation. All the obvious evidence suggests that the Committee of Inquiry has not carried out its work as envisaged by a logical approach to any investigation. The truth has been tried to hide and Estonians, on the Estonian side, have been excluded from various activities. The whole truth about which materials are available is not revealed. I believe that it is our moral duty to start the investigation again, and I am not able to give any reason at the moment as to which laws or rights could prohibit it. Yes, the Riigikogu has taken a decision on the existence of a grave treaty, but the same Riigikogu has the right to denounce the treaty. Misleading people must be stopped and the truth must rise to the surface.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U87	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U88	Thank you very much. Good waitress! I would have liked to ask this question from Margus Kurm, but since I know that you have been dealing with these issues in depth for a very long time, and you have also talked to Margus Kurm thoroughly, I think I can ask you that too. And maybe I'll get an answer. Indeed, already in 2005-2006. In 1996 information spread in the Estonian media that we are not receiving a full response to the events because there are a number of classified documents in the hands of the U.S. intelligence agency, Finland and Sweden. These classified materials concern this event in Estonia. That is what Margus Kurm has said in the media. Do you know if these classified documents have been released now? Have they found out what they're doing?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U89	I can tell you that archived material about the investigation is being stored in a police house in Kungsholmen (this is Stockholm district). Since the investigation was conducted in Estonia, the chairman of the [research committee] was from Estonia and it was a passenger ship registered in Estonia, it is an absolutely strange phenomenon. The archives should actually be located in Estonia, under the authority of the Estonian authorities. And here's another interesting conclusion. If we assume that there was an agreement that the archives must be taken care of by Sweden, then the question is why the Stockholm police. It would have been more natural if Landsarkivet or Riksarkivet had been archived. But the question is that you have a very correct remark about the fact that all material bears a security seal on the basis of a single Swedish decision and with reference to the Personal Data Protection Act. In fact, what I want to say is that the real rule of secrecy has not been mentioned here. Here is another question: how could the Swedish police take responsibility for carrying out an investigation into errors in foreign maritime traffic in international waters, which do not really concern Swedish citizens? The question is justified and justified. We must be able to continue studying this archive; it must also reach Estonia. I would like to make another comment on which I received [information] from the remaining member of the Swedish Parliament. Carl Bildt made early appearances of charges against a shipbuilding company. He claimed that the company had built a misdesigned ship. He also threatened possible claims for damages. This eventually led to the launch of an investigation into the shipwreck of the shipbuilding company, led by Werner Hummel from Hamburg. The investigation soon resulted in the discovery of a military cargo loaded just before departure. But what's going on is pretty interesting. When the shipbuilding company threatened to publish the Hummel report as a whole, negotiations began between Sweden and the shipbuilding company. Sweden withdrew all claims for damages and also withdrew complaints about an undervalued ship. So the entire shipwreck investigation was somewhere in the air. There was no clear causal link. In my opinion, the point now is that since the ship was registered in the Estonian register and was flying the flag of Estonia, all the material should be located not in Sweden, but here on Estonia's surface. This should be a very important factor in the initiation of an objective investigation and the Commission of Inquiry should request this material.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U90	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U91	Honourable Vice President! Good waitress Kalle! I am amazed not so much by the final report, but most of all by the fact that a detective threw that bolt into the sea, the evidence was destroyed. You said that an independent, transparent investigative body should be established. Do you have any visions, could it be parliamentary, government, expert, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U92	Thank you, good questioner! I'm completely shocked by what Margus Kurm was saying here. We learned that, even though this information had spread before, that the bolt of the Atlantic zipper was thrown overboard into the sea. But it is not the only evidence that has been attempted to be carried aside. The official final report, which was on the web, contained a very important piece of evidence provided by the Central Police Bureau of Investigation, if I remember correctly, in Finland. It's here now. I have a translation from the excellent translation bureau of our house, which states and is fixed, how one of the sailors who worked for Estonia's maintenance team at the time, now the captain of the ship, before painting the visor, discovered that there were cracks in the visor's attachment mechanisms. That's what I'm talking about. He also told the maintenance team who suggested that we tell the Chief. In fact, almost all members of the ship's crew knew about these cracks. Why did I give you this example? For the reason that I have no longer been able to find this English - speaking witness. Either it's been removed from all this material or it's my poor search skills. Question: how should we proceed? I think it could still be a committee of inquiry set up by Parliament, working actively with all the stakeholders working on this route. And as Ain-Alar Juhanson said, we need to gather more evidence, as far as possible, because 26 years and over is already over. Those people who know something about it are getting less and less left. We must use every possible evidence base that we can obtain, straighten our backs and demand answers on the Swedish side as well, which, unfortunately, have been ignored so far on the basis of Margus Kurm's report. The investigation must be open as far as possible and accessible to the public, so that questions can no longer arise where the conclusions do not provide answers, but raise even more questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U93	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U94	Thank you. Good waitress! I am very well aware of the Treaty of February 1995, its contents, its third article on not raising the ship, the agreement signed by Jüri Luik during the reign of Tarand. I also know about the annex to this agreement that was made a year later. However, neither the contract nor the annex to the contract are concerned with the concreteisation of the ship or the covering of the vessel with gravel. How would you comment on the decision to cover [wreck] with gravel and concrete? Do not the answers to a great many questions come from the background of this decision and the decision-makers?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U95	It is very difficult for me to comment on what will result from these decisions. But I watched and watched carefully a film made by a film by a film group led by Henrik Evertsson. And in its first part, there was an extremely interesting point. Oh, my God, I've forgotten, Ingvar Carlsson, I think... Okay, let's say the Prime Minister was asked that you promised to bring the victims out of there, and now your decision is the opposite, that the ship must be covered with concrete. And you know what the Prime Minister said? He replied this way: yes, I am ashamed to admit it, I promised it, but then I was informed of the circumstances and reasons why I needed to change the decision to cover the ship with concrete. At this point, I would like to ask the Swedish side what were the reasons that became known to the Prime Minister and which he did not know before. Consequently, information about the need to cover with concrete moved only through very narrow channels. I don't know how to comment anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U96	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U97	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! We got a very good background from the waitresses. But did you also consider inviting the person to appear here to whom the government has delegated the leadership of this process, Secretary of State Taimar Peterkop, so that we can find out what the real situation in Estonia is now in this investigation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U98	Thank you for your question. I think that this question is justified. However, we have found that the debate on the current crucial national issue needs to focus on the previous shortcomings that have been made in the study of Estonia's demise. I assume the Secretary of State doesn't have as much information as the three speakers today. And the answer to your question can certainly also be given on the basis of public pressure on this subject. I had a fourth performer planned today, Carl Eric Laantee, but since he works as the consul general in St. Petersburg, he just couldn't come in for a short time. I think that, after today, there is a certain pressure on the Secretary of State, who must take decisions that satisfy those who wish to reopen this investigation. By the way, when I was told today that what you are doing with the human being there was about Ain-Alar Juhanson, he was the one and also many former sailors, current ship captains and other maritime figures, who are currently highlighting the facts that I reported here in my report. Their aim and desire is for the investigation to be concluded objectively. It's just the truth, no matter how hard it is to give these people peace of mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U99	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Marika Tuus-Laul, on behalf of the Centre Party Group or on behalf of yourself? On behalf of the Centre Party Group. Yes, please, five plus three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U100	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good guests! Colleagues! It's been 26 years since the disaster in Estonia. In that time, one generation has grown up. For these young people, this shipwreck has been only one dark knowledge before them, but for many of us whose loved ones, family members or even several family members remained on the seabed, it is a burningly painful subject on the lips to this day: why has our own country not done anything for years, so that we can know the real causes of the shipwreck? For years, we have been told how the autumn storm broke the Estonia bow bow and how it, in turn, tore open the ramp of the car deck, through which the water got to the central deck, and the ship went north in half an hour. Half an hour! The Joint Accident Investment Commission of Sweden, Estonia and Finland, which investigated the disaster, spent quite several years in research, but ignored the most basic argument as to why this ferry drowned so quickly. The ship was ten stories high, 150 metres long and weighed 16,000 tons. How can the seven decks be filled with water so quickly when waterproof barriers lie within the interior of the ship, with the complexity of the labyrinth, as marine experts write? The ship had excellent buoyancy, according to specialists, it should have floated northwards in the water for hours or even days. Unless there was a hole in the hull. We know that a full-blown air mattress, for example, doesn't sink in any way if we want to drown it. Drew Wilson, who wrote the book about Estonia's doom, has brought out of history 12 passenger ships that drowned in less than an hour. All of them caused the drowning of a large hole that was caused by a collision, an explosion, or torpedoes. The only example of a ship sinking so quickly without a hole is the motor ship Estonia. For example, Wilhelm Gustloff went north in 1945 within 50 minutes of being hit by torpedoes from three submarines. There were holes bigger than the house in the hull. There are a lot of questions. For years, we have been lied that diving on a ship is impossible, although in December, but also a few days after the disaster, divers went down four days in a row and filmed there for about 64 hours. They also went to the bridge, but they didn't ask divers to investigate the bodies that were in it. There were three bodies, either Captain Arvo Andresson's, we don't know. It should have been crucial, but it was not studied. The chairman of the commission, Andi's Master, stated that, therefore, it had already been visited and studied, but all of it was concealed. This was also one of the reasons why Andi's Master resigned in his time. Or where was Captain Piht? I was working at the "Actual Camera" at the time and that day, and I remember seeing the original list of survivors. Captain Confess was definitely there. I also remember our family friend Ervin Roden, who was a bartender on the ship, I remember sisters in Veide and so on. It was a long list. They've seen a lot of people! We know very well that he also provided life jackets for passengers on deck, and later he was seen in a hospital in Finland. I remember very accurately a picture of where there was a Piht, a blanket around it, but later that same film didn't have this place. And if you want to see the Saved and Escaped Confessor now, then kick in YouTube's two materials are there, 'M/S Estonia Captain Piht' or 'Estonia's disaster just what really happened? '. You can clearly see his face, he's even shoving himself out of that medical car to be seen. She saw him being filmed. Even now there are materials in the archives of Estonian Television about the ship's loss, which has probably not been shown, Enn Eesmaa reminded me just yesterday. Why are we still hiding that a passenger ship was transported west of Russia with military equipment, electronic equipment and more? The Postman recently stated that the Russians warned several times that such transport should be stopped immediately so that Russian military equipment and secrets would not leak to the west. But it wasn't done, and it was ignored by three countries at once. The question really arises as to whether the government did not know about this at all at that time. Impossible! I remember that on that very tragic day, TASS, the news agency, came to the 'Actual Camera', official announcement that Russia offered Estonia assistance in exploring Estonia and raising the ship. The auxiliary ships were ready at the port of Paldiski. That was the message. It also stated that it was the delivery of Russian arms to the US, which was carried out regularly through Swedish ports. Of course, this decision was not taken by Estonia at the time. We've been talking about how they wanted to cover the ship with gravel and so on. There are many questions, and their families have been waiting for decades. These questions must be answered clearly. The government has already taken the first steps to this end. The Centre Party Group believes that raising the ship will give us a great deal of new information. Technological capacity has improved over these years, and we should do everything we can to get these exhaustive answers. Only 73 years later did the detectives arrive on board the Titanic. But Estonia is about five times lower than the Titanic. Let us not forget, too, that if we prove that a passenger ship was carrying military equipment, then it could be a massacre. Crimes against humanity never expire. Of course, we will not be able to save either the ferry or the dead, but we could still save Estonia's reputation as the flag state of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U101	Thank you. Yoko Alender, please! On behalf of the Reform Party Group?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U102	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The people you're watching us on some screen! It is not very easy to stand here in front of you on this subject. For a long time, I too chose the path to not touch on Estonia as a politician in my role. Because the words of a politician have, or should at least have, a very big background, a responsibility. Every word we say is an act. Now, after the new circumstances that affect Estonia's death, very many promises have been made. Important members of the government have said there will be another investigation. Mart Helme, former Minister of the Interior, even went so far as to say that all those dead had to be removed from the sea floor. There's nothing to do, I'm here today in two roles. I'm describing the feeling that possessed me by listening to the words of Mart Helme. Of course, emotion is the first reaction, as if something came back from the sea floor. But emotions are not always the most correct guides, or at least not too strong emotions. And if you keep thinking about who's gonna have to do this job to get those bones out of there, maybe it's worth thinking about these people too. So, from the promises that have been made. I think that everyone who made these promises deserves to know how much expectations and hopes it creates in people who had closer contact with Estonia. In my opinion, this feeling was well described by Ain-Alar Juhanson when they saw the lights from other ships on that ship. It's worth counting on. Alar Laneman, the current Minister of the Interior, has also said that the full truth can only come to light if a full investigation is carried out. Now, for your part, some of the questions that have been actually done so far. The Committee of Inquiry has not been set up because it has not been able to find a leader for the Committee of Inquiry. Taimar Peterkop, Secretary of State, is currently fulfilling this position, but in reality no commission has been set up. That's why we can't ask anyone today. It is as if the government has delegated this matter. However, we will discuss this issue here. In fact, I also felt a little hurt when Ain-Alar Juhanson had to answer questions from members of the Riigikogu here. I'm not sure we as ambassadors should put people in that position. And I'm also not sure that we're here as experts to analyze exactly what happened, like on YouTube videos. Ain-Alar Juhanson also said to let the investigators do their own work. And in view of the independent commission that has been mentioned... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U103	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U104	When it comes to independent investigations, it certainly cannot be a committee of any kind. That's not possible. People have two very strong emotions: one is fear and the other is trust. Psychologists say these two emotions rule each other out. If there's fear, there can't be trust, if there's trust, then there can't be fear. Is what we have done here today, how these new facts, these alleged facts, have it created more trust or fear? I very much hope that this independent investigation will really come. Before all these classified documents [will become public], whatever they handle, and before all the survivors have been heard so that they feel that they have been able to tell their story and that it has been taken seriously, before this peace, I think, really does not come. One more thing has to be said: it was interesting what Ain-Alar Juhanson said that survivors do not want to talk to each other either. It's like it's Estonian. Maybe we should talk. I hope that once again, experts will be allowed to work and we will try to contribute to this. And I think that both the people of Estonia and all other people, from whatever country they are from, they deserve to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-26_U105	Thank you. It seems that there is no further wish for negotiations, so the negotiations are closed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank today's rapporteurs Ain-Alar Juhanson, Margus Kurm and Kalle Grünthal. I thank all the members of the Riigikogu who took an active part in the debate. I very much hope that this debate today has brought us one step closer to finding out the causes of the destruction of Estonia and the truth. Thank you. Today's trial is over.
