ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U1	Good morning, honourable colleagues. We will start the 13th working week Thursday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, there is the possibility of passing on drafts and enquiries. There's no wish. Then we'll begin the presence check. 47 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present, 54 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U2	We can start working on the agenda. On the agenda we have one point today, this is the debate on the crucial state issue 'Life after the crisis', initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, forward as a whole society. Rapporteurs are three rapporteurs from outside the Riigikogu, they are a member of the Supervisory Board of the Praxis think tank Ardo Hansson, Deputy Secretary General of the Ministry of Social Affairs Sten Andreas Ehrlich and MEP Marina Kaljurand, and the members of the Riigikogu are presented by Indrek Saar, Chairman of the Social Democratic Party Group. First of all, I will explain how we are going to deal with this issue today. According to § 153 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Conditions, the Board of the Riigikogu, on a proposal from the Social Democratic Party Group, decided the next time to discuss the important state issue 'Life after the crisis as a whole society'. For three waitresses outside the Riigikogu, Ardo Hansson, Sten Andreas Ehrlich and Marina Kaljurand have up to 20 minutes for the presentation and each member of the Riigikogu can then submit up to two questions to each of the rapporteurs. The total number of questions and answers to any report shall not exceed 20 minutes. Indrek Saare's report is up to 15 minutes and may take up to 15 minutes for questions and answers. After the presentations and questions have been answered, negotiations will be opened. Representatives of committees and political groups, as well as other members of the Riigikogu, may speak. At the request of the Social Democratic Party Group, I propose to the Riigikogu that the representatives of the political groups first take the floor. The Riigikogu will not take a decision to close the discussion. And I also have on this table a proposal from the Group of the Social Democratic Party to extend the session until the agenda item is exhausted, but no longer than two o'clock. That will be put to the vote when the time has come. So once again: each member of the Riigikogu can ask up to two questions, but it cannot last longer than 20 minutes per rapporteur. Let's go! First of all, I would like to ask Ardo Hansson, member of the Supervisory Board and economics expert at the Praxis speech chair. Please, the chair is yours!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U3	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I really appreciate the opportunity to perform here. I would therefore like to thank the Socialist Group for having invited me and for giving you this discussion at all. There's little time, and there's a lot of issues, so let's get to work. I'd like to talk about four things. Firstly, what happened then and how it is different from the previous major crises. Secondly, the role of fiscal policy in this slightly different situation. Some things are similar, some things are different. Third, what happens next. We can talk about different scenarios, I could talk about three possible scenarios. Two things I don't think are very likely to do, but I could think about a little bit. And fourthly, I would like to talk about the baseline scenario and what it says can be done in the future. First of all, what's happened? I think the easiest thing to understand is to use the image that the economy was put in an artificial coma to save the organism from even worse. It's a very unusual move, actually, but I realize that in medicine they do things like this. It was, I think, justified. It was intentional, but there are certain consequences. Unusual situation! Economic losses were not caused so much by the spread of the virus directly, but indirectly by all these measures. The quarantine requirement essentially meant that a large part of the economic activity was temporarily frozen. If we look at IMF forecasts for the development of European economies, we can see that the economic slowdown in Estonia may be greater than, for example, the slowing down of the Italian or French or Spanish economies. We are now around 6th place in Europe. The only countries with even greater decelerations are Greece, Slovenia, Croatia, Latvia and Lithuania. In fact, this shock comes from the fact that we ourselves are closing the economy and this closure is very similar in many countries. But, broadly speaking, everyone suffers economically more or less equally. How, then, does this differ from the previous major crisis? I think there are four dimensions to the game. Firstly, the crisis has not grown out of the economy, but is health-related. It was not the case that the economy was fundamentally unbalanced or wrong. In fact, he was not distorted at all, but then came up with some external factor and influenced the economy. This is a very different situation. Secondly, it should be noted that the so-called supply factors play a major role. Those who have studied economics at university know that there are two important factors: demand and supply. One thing is the economic ability to produce something, how many hands we have, how many machines, how productive these machines and workers are. This has an impact on the state of the economy. And the other thing is the ability to buy, the demand. In a normal crisis, as we had 12 years ago, there is a dominant demand side. Before they were all optimistic, earned a lot of money, money flowed in, wages and prices rose and demand was high. And then all of a sudden it disappeared, people became pessimistic, didn't want to take any more. But the supply side was pretty good in the economy, nothing changed there. These hands or machines didn't disappear anywhere; the production potential remained more or less the same. In this situation, it is basically possible to provide a classical stimulus: everyone would like to work, want to consume, just need to offer a little more temporary support. The situation is now different as these supply-related factors have been added. A large part of the economic activity was simply frozen as an example of this artificial coma. And I think that when parents are at home with their children, it significantly reduces production capacity in those companies where these parents were working or working. The problems are with production inputs in some branches: perhaps a piece came from China and it did not come again or will not come soon. So the bidding factor has come into play and this is a slightly different situation. Third dimension: very steep decline. 12 years ago, bad news dripped over months and maybe even blocks. It was a somewhat flat downward trend. But now the bang was almost momentary. If, for example, we look at the unemployment figures in the United States, we can see that they jumped up: all those who lost their jobs lost their jobs in almost the same week. The fourth factor is that Estonia is now able to borrow money for the first time. I think that there was no such possibility in 1992, nor in 2008 was there really such an opportunity if someone had offered a loan to Estonia at that point, perhaps with a 10% interest rate. Then there was a situation where the money was just gone and somehow needed to be collected from here and from where it came from. The possibility that stimulation could have been considered, in fact, did not exist. The only way would have been to go to the IMF and tell them to give us a program like the Latvians did. Maybe it would have provided some relief, but there was no money in general, there had to be a cut in expenses. It bothers me when people say that 12 years ago, big mistakes were made when they started cutting. I think that any person who would have been Minister of Finance at that time, either instead of Padari or Ligi, would probably have had to make similar decisions. No big mistakes were made. But in the end, I think it is quite a unique situation now, because we deliberately close a large part of the economy. And that brings us to the role of fiscal policy. Let me remind you of the logic of our current fiscal policy: we are spending in bad times and perhaps we are putting aside in good times. It is such a countercyclical approach, we are talking about structural balance, nominal balance. I think you're all familiar with it. Sometimes it seems to me that some believe in only half of this formula. Now, when the rule says that more can be spent, it is quoted that we have such a nice budget law that allows more to be spent. Whether or not this rule was followed in good times is another issue. But in general it is, I think, a very sensible framework that says that at this time, you might rather spend a little more, go to deficit, etc. So there's logic in that sense. I think that if there were no factors relevant to these offers, we could almost apply this to autopilots. The GDP gap would be in a small deficit, we would add some money, press gas and stimulate the economy. I think that right now we need to adjust this framework a little bit, add some nuances, at least in three dimensions. Firstly, there is no hope of reaching near pre-crisis levels. If the pre-crisis level was 100 and we suddenly fell to 75, then maybe by stimulation we can get somewhere close to 80. But we'll never get 100 more. So there's no point in pursuing a kind of delinquency with which we're putting huge money into the game. We just can't get it. We can't eat so much more food to replace all the things that go away when travel opportunities disappear. I think fiscal policy has a role to play, but not an endless role. Secondly, many people do not need additional income and do not benefit much. More than half have, I think, wages are either more or less the same or have even risen in recent months. And the fact that you can't eat out, you can't go to the theater, you can't travel. Although, for example, we give 100 euros more to the members of the Riigikogu, I believe that people sitting in this Chamber have never saved as much as they have in the last two months. It is simply not physically possible to replace everything that must not be done now. At the same time, there are other people in society who have always been poor and who have now lost their jobs. They could really use that kind of money, it would be very important. So today there is inequality: some need relatively little money, others need more money. Perhaps this justifies a focused approach, more or less the case so far. Third, you should not shoot off your hip, you should not sow money, based on the logic that the more money into the economy, the better. We do not know how long this crisis may last. Right now we may think we have enough ammo, but if everything turns out to be more complicated, every cent is necessary. I'm sure you could think about efficiency, and so on. So, what's next? I think that when it comes to possible scenarios, you could think in two dimensions. One dimension is whether this new normality, where we're going in a few years, is going to be similar to what we're getting used to, or it's going to be very different. Whether the world is changing radically or not changing, it's one dimension. The second dimension is whether we move there quickly or slowly. So you could figure out that there's two times two, four different scenarios. Now I'm talking about three qualitative scenarios. Two of them are quite unlikely, but they would still be discussed. The first is the rapid recovery of old normality. Economists call it the V-shaped economic crisis. A rapid decline followed by a rapid and almost complete recovery. This should assume that this virus will somehow miraculously disappear itself, some kind of vaccine will quickly come along, that the health crisis will suddenly resolve, and then we will be in a situation where the economy will return to normal. Then it is a risk that, if the economy itself recovers, but we have in the meantime come up with very comprehensive and large support packages, then perhaps afterwards it turns out that there is too much incentive applied. And then governments or central banks have to start rewinding this incentive pretty quickly. But it's a rather optimistic scenario, maybe not so much to count on. Another possibility is that the new normality will be very different from the old one. And it depends on whether we move there quickly or slowly. When we know that the new world is different, people no longer travel, our economic structure has to change dramatically, we call it an L-shaped recession, such a permanence shock. And then we should start adjusting. Then there is no point in supporting shipping companies and airlines, because we need to start moving towards other areas. This somewhat resembles the beginning of the 1990s when the economy needed total restructuring. If we had started to support these old branches of the Soviet economy and keep them alive at that time, it would have been very bad. However, we went on to support people when they lose jobs, but we are encouraging economic restructuring. But it assumes that we are moving permanencely towards a very different economy. I don't think it's very likely, but that's something I could think about. Then the third and, in my opinion, the most likely development, I would call it the base scenario. So it's more of a slow move back to the old normality. I think that is what we expect by default if we support existing companies, if we try to preserve them, say, keep them alive, keep jobs, etc. We see value in the current structure, we believe that the situation is temporary and we should somehow keep alive what we can keep alive. In that case, sometimes you don't have to stimulate that much overall. I think that the measures to be taken need to keep up with the times. It's not a phase where everything is stable. Now, as long as we're in this artificial coma phase where we're told that we don't want you to go to a restaurant, we don't want you to show up at a job, we don't want you to go on a trip, we obviously have to stick to these focused measures. It doesn't make sense to start giving money to every person or more generally. It may even seem as weird when you say I don't want you driving a car, but I want to encourage car driving. It's causing some confusion in the signals. At the other end, the opposite is true. When the health crisis is resolved, of course we want to stimulate tourism, we want to stimulate all kinds of activities on a broad scale. And then, in my opinion, fiscal policy can move on to a much more general approach, where we use traditional tax policy, etc. I do not think it would be best to reduce labour taxes, for example, I do not know. This is actually broad-based support, but right now we need support for those who are in particular distress. I think there will be some intermediate period in the future where the message will inevitably become a little blurry: we will not actually tell people to stay home anymore, but we do not really want them to travel everywhere, either. What, then, would be the right economic policy solution in this middle part of the road? I think it's a little complicated to say that. At the moment, we just need to say whether our message to people is: stay home, rather do not go to work, or go to work. And accordingly, this policy must be adjusted. How's it going? I think there are some other issues. I believe that we are moving from risk minimisation to risk management and acceptance of a certain level of risk. It's always that when there's some big shock, the initial reaction is that we turn off all the taps, we'll be very careful. This is a perfectly reasonable and justified approach. We'd rather be careful, we'd rather be overreacting than do too little. Once we've gotten our feet down and gained some confidence, when we already know a little bit about this virus, it's possible to start knowingly taking risks. And sometimes these risks will come true. I very much appreciate the announcement yesterday that there will be a movement between the Baltic States again. I think it's very important. Very important! And if we now see that sometimes someone comes from Latvia and delivers this virus, then if it doesn't become systematic, then we have to accept it, that sometimes incidents occur. Don't start turning off the taps for the first setback. I think we do this in everyday life. After all, the Health Insurance Fund does not support every last procedure that could save some people's lives. We say these are the treatment cases that we are willing to pay for, unfortunately cannot be paid for. We always have to make such choices. Or if we set speed limits on the roads, we know that science says that the faster you drive, the more traffic accidents there are. If we prioritise it and say that the only goal is to reduce road accidents or deaths, we would, of course, set a speed limit of 30 km/h on the whole road from Tallinn to Tartu. That, of course, would not make sense. So we're always looking for an equilibrium point in the subconscious, and I think we're going in that direction. As far as cuts are concerned, I think it is necessary to distinguish between general cuts and specific cuts. Of course, if we are at a stage where the fiscal policy framework says that the economy is at a standstill and the government could stimulate, of course, this support means spending. Support comes, for example, at the cost of reducing tax receipts, etc. But that does not mean that we have to accept the budget as it was put in place at the end of last year. The situation has changed. Some investments are canceled. I imagine, for example, that the investment in renovation of the city hall will be cancelled anyway. But maybe if we think that conference tourism is the kind of thing that's gonna suffer for a long time, then maybe it was really good that we didn't even get on that road at all. Anyway, priorities change. I think that, if necessary, officials often do not go on missions, nor do you travel as much as you would otherwise have travelled. The Riigikogu budget could at least be cut to move towards realisticness. And I think there is also an element of solidarity at stake here. Even if this money could stimulate the economy, it would be a demonstration of the country's empathy for those citizens who are actually suffering, that we are all together in this crisis and that everyone bears this burden a little bit, actually good. So I think specific cuts should go free. One issue is the bankruptcy system. Obviously, there is now an increasing number of companies, households and internationally also countries failing to deal with their debts. So far, this system worked as usual at a peaceful time, but now it may need additional resources to ensure that these procedures are carried out sensibly in order to be able to start writing off these loans in a reasonable manner when individual companies are going bankrupt. I think that, from an economic point of view, the issue of opening schools is very acute. Maybe it's been cut off by spring now, but it's definitely necessary for schools to be open by autumn in such a way that people can still go to work. When it comes to the example of Sweden, I understand that one of the reasons for the Swedish approach was that it would increase the capacity of the health care system if nurses and doctors did not have to deal with their children but could be on the job. I think the second issue is opening the Finnish border to tourists. It's, I think, a matter of vital importance. Of course, this decision must come at the right time, well thought out, but it is a step that could very much help us and help the Finns. Domestic tourism will not be a very good substitute for foreign tourism, especially in terms of money. Finally, I think we need to remember that labour market measures are starting to distort statistics when we monitor these curves. One of the measures on the labour market is that the principle is that do not let people go, keep them in your mind-writing, we will pay you some money. But we do know that a lot of people who write like that don't really do much from morning to night. Unemployment is becoming hidden, and we need to start looking behind these numbers. In summary, I think that the current crisis is serious, especially in economic terms. It's very different. Countercyclical fiscal policies have a strong role to play, but with some nuances. There are several possible scenarios, some are unlikely, but you could think about them. In a more likely scenario, I think we are moving from quietly focused measures to general measures. In my opinion, overall, we could move from risk minimisation to risk management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U4	Thank you very much. Now there's a round of questions. I would ask all my colleagues to ask as briefly as possible and to certainly fit their question into one minute. This is not a two-minute speech, it is still a question. The less time it spends, the more people can ask questions. Javier in clothing, first question please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U5	Thank you, Mr President. This task is undoubtedly difficult because the subject is interesting. I'd argue with the fact that nothing really changes. The crises that you described in today's article have actually changed aviation, shipping and the world in general. And I'm pretty sure that the trends that have developed now, such as the acceleration of digitalisation and any changes in forms and methods of work, have a great impact. Competition between countries may therefore also increase significantly. But I ask you about one thing that will almost certainly change, and that is the debt of the Estonian state. The European Commission's forecast is that it will grow two and a half times. Well, it's a little early today to recapture. My question is, do you think that all the changes that have already been made have been made in the right place, or have we let a shotgun in the dark in some places?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U6	Thank you. First of all, I don't think this world is gonna change, but it's not gonna change radically. The condition must be that normal life will more or less recover, but there will always be some dimensions in the game where life changes in many things. We're just moving faster in the direction we'd have gone anyway. Estonia, of course, has the advantage that our public debt is very low due to former finance ministers and governments over the last few decades. I think that our ability to borrow now is also due to the fact that we have joined the euro area. I should have mentioned this earlier, it is an important source of confidence. We will assess ex post how these costs were exactly paid: which were perhaps excessive, which was not. Of course, with such a low level of debt, the problem does not come directly from the fact that this debt is going to grow enormously. We are not about to reach the other end of Europe. At the same time, I think money is always valuable. I guess we'd have to think about what it would have been like if we hadn't spent on one thing. We still have to think that money could have been spent differently and maybe left some spending in the future. At the same time, I think that some things that are related to the crisis are all very reasonable, for example, the measures of the Health Insurance Fund, the KredEx measures, the labour market measures. I have not been entirely in agreement with the reduction of excise duties. And it also seems to me that although money can be very boldly distributed now and, of course, it is possible to use this logic, but perhaps a little bit should be avoided.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U7	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U8	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! It seems that it is quite difficult for Estonia and other countries to go through another crisis like this, with similar measures and with the same artificial coma. The resources are actually running out, and there is a second, socio-psychological pressure, the consequences of which may be more catastrophic than those of the virus. This actually suggests that we need to learn to live with this virus and find a very clear strategy until probably that moment when a vaccine has been developed or whatever. Could this mean that, even though we are together in the European Union, certain smaller economic spaces may arise, precisely because, on the one hand, human health is important and, on the other hand, the need to move? Indeterminateness is due most to the fact that we can carry out our actions very well here, but people are moving and other countries may not be doing the same, and we will be in the same situation again one day.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U9	Thank you. I think this is where the logic of the green and red regions arises. That's very reasonable. If we emerge from this crisis, some countries will be able to do it more boldly than others. If we open our own borders, we will probably look at the foreigner's passport and residence to decide whether or not we will let him into Estonia. These small islands, where normal life is to be restored, are inevitably created here, but on the next island it takes place on a slightly different basis. In my opinion, at least the Baltic States, Finland and perhaps even Norway could join it, is such an island where at least some kind of breathing space could be created. The second thing is that we should also think about what could have happened without the European Union. We've already seen what happened at the border for a few days. How long this whole trade could have been cut off! In fact, labour mobility is not intentionally restricted. But the free movement of goods has still been crucial to the Estonian economy, there could have been some domino effect if the borders were quietly closed to the goods.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U10	Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U11	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You mentioned in your report that there was nothing wrong with the economy at first. The economy was paused by the countries themselves. You also stated in your report that we do not know whether the recession will be V-, U- or L-shaped. When one or the other of the last two, you also mentioned that resources were limited. If we take Estonia, the previous governments have managed to keep our sovereign debt within reasonable limits, but many Western European countries have long been struggling with their debt. If there is a negative scenario that more resources will be needed in the coming months, it may happen that many countries will no longer be able to serve their debt, as you have also pointed out. What, then, could be these darker scenarios? Are these loan write-offs, or what does that even mean in fiscal policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U12	Thank you for your question. I do believe that neither the ability of any household, company or state to borrow is unlimited. Sooner or later, the borders should come up. I think that, at the moment, low interest rates have helped and, in future, perhaps we can play out when economic development suddenly becomes quite positive. Against a background of positive developments, higher interest rates can also be met. But now, when you look at how much debt is actually going to be increased in all countries, it is clear that the bigger it is, the more likely someone will end up in trouble and then need a national bankruptcy procedure. It's kind of hard to quantify, but I still consider this risk to be somewhat real.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U13	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U14	Thank you. Thank you for your good presentation. I agree well with the background and the description of the current situation. I have a question about scenarios. Yeah, I don't really believe in V, either, but if you think about the L-shaped scenario, followed by V's second bar, or the slope, what's going to happen to it? It seems to me that some kind of economic restructuring must take place. And maybe you'll open up a little bit, which, looking forward, would be the most important factors that affect Estonia's international competitiveness, so that investments can be made here in order for innovation to develop. And also in view of our demographic situation, how can we cope with the additional workforce so that we have enough work to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U15	Thank you. Very many questions, very fundamental issues. Some kind of restructuring must always take place, some kind of restructuring should also have been carried out as a result of other processes. Of course, one way is to find out what the forward-looking lines are. Even if this health crisis does not cause it, as it were, we are still perhaps moving towards a slightly different economy in a few decades. Some investments, such as infrastructure investments, may not be so relevant and some others will become topical. Of course, this W-shaped decline is very real. I described these smooth scenarios. In fact, what I think happens is that we're mitigating the situation, and then we see that a little bit of overstretched, then we turn it off a little bit again and we're looking for this equilibrium point, and it's going to be a little freaky. But I don't think we need to invent a lot of new investment needs at the same time. Now that we are in this artificial coma phase, the emphasis must be on keeping the patient alive, perhaps in the future we will buy him new clothes or recommend him to exercise more generally.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U16	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable performer! The pandemic triggered a recession in many countries, as we all know. Most analysts say that the health crisis is the reason that the economy has fallen, but there are probably much fewer analysts who say that the decline would have come without a health crisis, because the rise had lasted long enough. One argument refers, among other things, to central banks, whose ability to bail out countries with high debt levels has been reduced to a very large extent. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U18	Thank you for your question. I think, of course, some kind of crisis would have come, but then it would have grown out of, for example, the inability of some countries to bear the debt burden. I think the increase would have been a few percent above the potential and the decrease would have perhaps been a little less. It would not have been such an acute crisis. But, of course, the crisis can always be used to create a stronger foundation in this area as well. So countries that may not yet think very much about the future and are already facing a great burden could think a little more soberly about these choices.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U19	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U20	Thank you. I would like to begin by thanking you for a very meaningful presentation. This crisis, which has very many negative consequences, also has some positive aspects. I haven't heard a rooster in my village in the last ten years, now I hear it. People have come to earth, their rhythm and their rhythm have changed. I think it's gonna be a long way from there for the days to come. People work remotely, live in the countryside, think more about the earth. My question is: do you think the structure of the real estate market will change? Real estate development is one of the key directions of the economy, and maybe now more value living in the countryside and teleworking.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U21	Thank you. I think these trends are definitely developing to some extent. I'm sure people will get used to it. However, the subject of commercial real estate is one where this direction is probably not developed so much. Yesterday Eesti Pank published a new financial stability review and the risk of commercial real estate was highlighted there. But at the same time, I don't think it's believable at this other extreme, where we say we've been shocked so much that we're going to live in a different way and consume much less of that, I don't think. If you want to look at the English page 'Roaring Twenties', or 'Roaring twenties', which I think was called golden twenties in Europe, you will see that the huge pandemic at the time was followed by a very extensive economic boom: open to cinemas, dance halls, bought cars and lived a very different life. So it can move in the other direction: something behind the barrier suddenly goes off.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U22	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U23	Thank you. Good waitress! A great deal is currently being discussed about how well the government has dealt with the crisis situation. But what should be the role of the opposition in such a crisis? And can you appreciate how well they've done their job?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U24	I haven't followed it much, but it's different from country to country. In some countries, I believe that opposition people have also been appointed to government as ministers or deputy ministers. If we look at Swedish case, for example, I think that all eight political parties have agreed on these matters in a consensual manner. However, there are countries where the role of the opposition is smaller. So it depends very much on the country's political culture and other factors.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U25	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U26	Thank you. That report was music for my ears. I very much liked the question of the effectiveness of the measures and why not give a second to Reuben Kaalepi, who asked about the effectiveness of the opposition. But I'm certainly not asking if borrowing from the second pillar at the interest rate is a good idea. You said very well that there is no point in stimulating driving when it is actually said not to move. But how do you assess KredEx's measure, which is all unanimous and which is the biggest one at all, 1.5 billion allegedly, is actually less? The rhetoric of the Minister of Finance has been that there is nothing the banks can do, do or go on. For their part, banks say that they do not adopt this measure with their usual risk conditions of 15% of the roof. How have you been looking at this? That money tends to stand.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U27	Thank you for your question. I have not been following exactly how this measure is going to take place. Of course, it would be bad if it were to slow down now, and when the measure finally starts, the crisis is already behind us and this money is no longer of use. In my opinion, it was positive that this KredEx instrument was chosen. It is at least an existing organisation with some structure, and so there is hope that it will start. I think that some such measure has been implemented in a number of countries. Firstly, you need some kind of labour market measure to ease this labour cost component and provide people with some kind of income. Secondly, you need a component of the tax administration: the tax administration needs to take an understanding of people's situation. And third, you need some kind of measure that helps banks. We can hope that the banks are just acting on a commercial basis, but they're probably a little harsh in the current situation because they don't see the big picture, they're looking at their own shit. So the fact that it was moving in this direction was positive, but what exactly is happening with this measure right now, I cannot say.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U28	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U29	Thank you. Dear waitress, thank you for this good presentation. My question also concerns support for businesses, but from a slightly different perspective. In this type of crisis, large companies come predominantly to the state to ask for help. I guess the countries here have been acting in different ways. For example, Germany has offered Lufthansa an offer: more than half of their support they want a 9% guaranteed return, plus 25 + 1% of their shares. At the same time, we are discussing the support of one private company in Estonia with half a percent, one percent, an offer coming from the private market under similar conditions was called robbery. On the other hand, there is pressure in such situations that those who are big and closer to national governments get more than those who are not. We, as well as many other countries, have suddenly started to support, for example, the production of fossil fuels. If you were asked for advice, what advice would you give, how and what companies should be supported in such a situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U30	Thank you for your question. I think that, first of all, the state could still negotiate some more or less reasonable terms. In fact, the state simply gives money in very cheap terms, I don't think he's a so-called last resort borrower. This means that he should give a little higher interest than he would have given in good times, and at a little lower interest than the bank demands at that point. There's no market that works 100%. The government is going to come down a little bit to the market, but still at some penalty rate, so that there is no situation where all companies, even those who do not really need this money, are going to apply for these loans. If you impose a small penalty component, only those who obviously need the money will come. I think it is possible to use this two-tier approach, so that the government or the government office only deals with systemically important companies. They may be large or small, but they cause a domino effect with a high systemic impact when a company ceases to work. And the rest of the companies would somehow have been dealt with under some reasonable general programme, which would be administered either by public officials or by banks. But there must always be a future perspective. Another thing is reporting: when the program is over, there must be some sort of trace of who got exactly how much money. This is an area where transparency is important.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U31	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! If we are looking at these future scenarios now, we could look beyond the current crisis: which scenarios await us in the future. I see that one very dangerous cause of the future crisis is expanding. There's a bond bubble for that. Above all, I am thinking of living above national levels, increasing public debt, printing money, buying bonds by central banks. I am even a little surprised that so far these developments have not led to inflationary developments, but there is a growing consensus among economists that this will happen. What do you think about living beyond that will lead to inflationary development? By the way, because of inflation, it is the underprivileged people who are losing. What is the probability of inflation in the coming years?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U33	Thank you. That's a very good question. I think there is no need to fear inflation in the near future; we are rather afraid of deflation. After all, we have seen what has happened at fuel prices and at other prices. Rather, prices have come down in recent months. And as long as there is a general low demand for goods or services compared to the ability of the economy, this pressure will remain low. What's going to happen? One thing that can happen when things suddenly turn positive and we cannot react quickly in the other direction, I have already mentioned that. So we have to assume that if good news comes now, there will be an opportunity to raise interest rates again. What's gonna happen? I do not see that the central banks have re-evaluated their role and said that we have been standing up for low inflation for several decades, but now suddenly we are changing our paradigm and we are seeing some sort of solution in much higher inflation. As long as these objectives are still the same, as long as similar objectives are pursued and the central banks are also independent, these things can be rewinded. But, of course, the higher you fly, the more painful it's possible to fall.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U34	Thank you very much, dear waitress. The time for questions and answers is over, and we will now hear the next report. I would like to stress that for the next waitress to ask questions, we need to register again; this old line no longer applies. Please, Deputy Chancellor of Social Affairs Sten Andreas Ehrlich. There are 20 minutes for the presentation and 20 minutes for the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U35	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Listeners! First of all, thank you very much for raising the subject. I think that the changes that are taking place on the labour market are big, but unclear, which is why it is particularly important that we discuss them as much as possible so that we understand them in the same way. I have been given 20 minutes today, and I intend to spend it to answer three questions. Firstly, how crises affect the labour market. I am talking about this in the case of the previous economic crisis. Secondly, how the crisis has already affected the Estonian labour market. And last thing we can do. Going to the first question, I note that one of the golden rules is that unemployment will increase with a delay: its impact on the labour market will be much later than the fall in GDP. It's also natural. In a situation where the economy is falling, entrepreneurs are not the first to cut their workforce. They consider this to be a relatively complex process with its own deadlines and have experienced that recruitment has not been very easy. First, they cut other potential costs and only then come to cutting the workforce. Thus, unemployment rates generally increase over the reference period, compared with the fall in GDP. This effect is reversed. In a situation in which the economy is recovering, entrepreneurs are not immediately re-creating workers, as uncertainty remains in the air, not knowing whether or not it is the right time to recruit workers. It also takes some time to recruit employees. I will, for example, mention the previous crisis. The GDP decline was at its core in 2009, but unemployment reached its peak only in 2010. And vice versa: in 2012, when the economy was already recovering, unemployment was still around 10%. Unemployment fell to the same level as it was before the previous economic crisis, only recently, just a few years ago. So rule number one: as compared to the other economy, unemployment always reacts with a delay. Rule number two: poverty is growing in crises. It's inevitable. During the crisis, many people lose their income because unemployment is increasing, but also because wages are falling, the hours worked are decreasing. And a lot of people don't have a lot of savings. According to Eesti Pank, 20% of households in Estonia have less than 100 euros in the current account by the end of the month, and about 35% of people live in the mouth from the party. At the same time, unemployment benefits are not very inclusive in Estonia. Unemployment benefit is granted to 33% of all unemployed persons and to 26% of all unemployed persons. And that means that as unemployment increases, there will inevitably be an increase in the number of people who do not have enough money to cover their daily expenses, or who fall into poverty. And that's what the absolute rate of poverty, which is marked by a red line in this graph, shows. But what does this blue line mean on this graph? This is the limit of relative poverty. In the face of the crisis, some people, those whose income comes from the state, such as pensioners, will become relatively less poor. When others' incomes fall, their incomes remain at the same level. Thus, in times of crisis, relative poverty is shrinking. But this does not mean that there are no problems in society, that absolute poverty must be looked at to assess poverty in the whole society. It should be borne in mind that crises tend to grow as snowballs. This is because, as income decreases, people also reduce their consumption and when they reduce their consumption, other people's income also decreases. As a last rule, I'm sorry to use the English term....the labour market is subject to the rule of last one in, first one out. On this chart you can see the employment rates of different groups of Estonian people: Estonian men, Estonian women, non-Estonian men, non-Estonian women. Before the previous crisis, the employment rate of non-Estonian women was reaching the level of Estonian women. After the crisis, it fell back to the level where it was, the gap between non-Estonian women and the employment rates of Estonian women began to grow again. Why? Because employers first recruit people who most meet the expectations of those who do not belong to risk groups from the labour market. People at risk during crises are first laid off because other workers are more valuable to employers. Women from non-Estonian countries before the previous crisis were working more and more, but after the crisis their employment fell and remained at a low level for quite a long time. It was only in recent years 2017, 2018 and 2019 that it started to grow quite rapidly again, as the labour market as a whole was suffering from severe labour shortages. This schedule reflects gender and ethnicity, but a similar graph could also be drawn for other risk groups, such as older people, young people, people with disabilities, non-Estonians. These are then the answers to the first question of how crises in general affect the labour market. Unemployment is increasing over time, poverty is also increasing and labour market disparities are becoming even greater. Now the next question: how has the crisis already affected Estonia? This chart shows the change in the number of employment relationships by occupation compared to January 2020, the beginning of this year. At first glance, it may seem that nothing bad has happened. If you look at the activities together, the decline is not very great compared to the beginning of this year. Some sectors have seen a decline of 15% in accommodation and catering compared to January. Other sectors, such as agriculture, have grown. However, two aspects need to be taken into account. First of all, we compare with January. January is the winter month, where employment is generally somewhat lower. The labour market is seasonal in many ways. The second point, to which Mr Hansson referred, is that labour market measures distort the picture somewhat. It says yesterday how many people the unemployment fund has applied for a salary benefit: nearly 90,000 people. It can also be seen how many employees in each sector of activity have received remuneration. For example, 53% of all employees in accommodation and catering receive remuneration from the unemployment fund; 31% in arts, entertainment, free time; 25% of all employees receive remuneration from the unemployment fund, 18% in the processing industry. If there were no remuneration, a very large number of these people would have lost their jobs or would soon have lost their jobs. So the picture we see in short-term labour market statistics of how the number of employment relationships has changed is often deceptive. Moreover, in April 2020, there were about 84000 people on the disability page. It's half as much as it's usually been on the disability page in April. There's a reserve hidden here, too. If these people had not been on the disability page, you might think that some of them would also have reached unemployment status. The number of registered unemployed has already increased considerably. While unemployment was around 35,000 at the beginning of this year, today 48000 to 49000 people are registered as unemployed. The unemployment rate has increased to 7.9% in just a few months. In those countries where measures such as remuneration are not available, the increase in registered unemployment has, of course, been even greater than in Estonia. In the United States, for example, the rise in unemployment has been record fast. Today, almost 30 million people have already received unemployment benefits in the United States who did not receive unemployment benefits in the past. As Ardo Hansson said, this time the effects of the crisis are very rapid and sudden. The unemployment rate is expected to increase faster than in the previous crisis, the delay is not that long. However, this does not mean that the reverse delay time does not apply, that the reverse rule does not apply. It can be expected that employers will not recruit people back as quickly as they have assembled them. The Estonian labour market is likely to have the same phenomenon as in 2010. Unemployment grew rapidly and remained high for a very long time: the main focus of the economic downturn was in 2009, the peak of unemployment in 2010, the peak of poverty in 2011-2012. The effects of the crisis are being felt for a long time and the crisis is still ahead of us in terms of the social sector. The impact of the crisis is different across Estonia. The rate of registered unemployment in Ida-Virumaa is already 13%, but in Hiiumaa it continues to be less than 5%. We can also see the fast slopes in this table. For example, Pärnumaa has historically been at relatively low unemployment rates, and now the increase in unemployment in Pärnumaa has been relatively rapid, as the county is heavily dependent on tourism. So maybe the balance is being replayed across Estonia, but it is clear that the effects across Estonia are very, very different. Some areas lose more than others. It can also be expected that the crisis will further increase the differences between the working groups and the risk groups, as it was during the previous crisis. This picture shows who works in accommodation and catering. Breakdown by nationality: non-Estonians are almost half, while non-Estonians are not half of the total workforce. Consequently, the impact of the crisis on non-Estonians is greater than on Estonians. More women work in accommodation and catering, and more young people are precisely the risk groups we talked about earlier. So it can be expected that risk groups will fall out of the labour market even faster. The crisis also affects those who do not become unemployed. A few weeks ago, we commissioned a study on how the crisis has affected the work of people who are still at work but who have children. It can be seen that the transfer of educational establishments to distance education affects more people with younger children: 72% of those with a child younger than 6 years of age and 68% of those with a child aged 7 to 10, while 48% of those aged 14 to 16 have an impact. Other interesting aspects were also identified in this study. For example, the greatest increase in stress has been seen in families with more than three children, which makes sense. So the crisis also has effects that are not evident in classical labour market statistics. So what do we do? And I ask questions, not answers, because the answer to all these questions is ultimately political. My role as an official is to give you as many pros and cons as possible, not to say what to do. First: Do you want to extend your salary benefit? As a scheme, we followed a German example of a similar scheme for pronunciation! - Kurzarbeit has been in use for a long time, since the 1930s. The impact of this scheme is that unemployment will not grow as much in times of crisis as in countries where there is no such scheme. The state subsidises keeping people in work and therefore the impact of the crisis on the labour market will be reduced and the economy will recover faster in terms of the labour market than in a situation where people are allowed to become unemployed. At the same time, the number of hours worked is decreasing. This impact may be more even across society, not only for those who are unemployed but for all workers. This will help to avoid the damage that is classically associated with unemployment. For example, people's skills are lost or so-called friction costs are incurred when people are made redundant and re-employed, as well as poverty-related problems are avoided. But there is also a very big shadow to this measure. The shadow is that the cost of this measure in Estonia is 250 million euros for compensation for 3 months. This is about a quarter, even more than a quarter of the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund's reserves, which very many people considered too large before the crisis began. In Germany, where this scheme comes from, the cost is even higher. It is estimated that the cost will be EUR 10 billion to keep people working in this way. It is cheaper to allow people to become unemployed because the cost of unemployment benefit is lower: the replacement rate is not 70%, but 50%. Apparently, not all people are paid that amount, but the damage is also greater. So here's the weighing point. We need to consider and decide whether we are prepared to make a major investment to ensure that the unemployment rate is lower, that the risks of unemployment are lower, so that the inequality in society is reduced. This solution is not cheap, but it is possible. And this decision is in the hands of society. Secondly, do you change something about unemployment benefits? We know in advance that unemployment is likely to increase in the near future. I ask whether it would be practical to change something else in unemployment insurance before this crisis, when unemployment is already very high. I'm putting four different options on the table. The first option is to allow job breaks. At the moment, if a person in Estonia is officially unemployed for one day, one hour, he or she will be deprived of unemployment insurance. This means that a person has no motivation to work casually when he is unemployed, he is even more distant from the labour market, employers do not have a job force and the state is deprived of tax revenue. The former idea of this ban was to avoid an unemployment trap. We do not want to create a situation where it is useful for a person to be unemployed and, at the same time, to make a profit, in other words, to be unemployed and, at the same time, to be in a better financial situation than working. But maybe here is where we should make small concessions, allow small amounts of work for small money, so that people remain connected to the labour market even during the crisis. Secondly, at a time of crisis, it is clear that many self-employed people, members of the management bodies of companies, managers, have longed for social protection, but it has not been possible to offer them this because they are not insured in unemployment insurance. If no contributions have been made to insurance, no payments can be made. Maybe this is something we should discuss now. Should the circle of insured persons be extended to prepare for future crises? In some countries, such as the United States, it has even happened that there has been an advance opportunity for platform workers, for example, to receive unemployment insurance benefits, but by agreeing that, as a result of the crisis, they will also pay all labour taxes. Now for the increase in the replacement rate. Is it appropriate to increase unemployment and unemployment benefits replacement rates? In Estonia, the amount of unemployment benefit is 35% of the previous year's minimum wage. It is less than 200 euros today, it is below the poverty line. If we know that many people remain unemployed regardless of who they are, it may be appropriate to discuss whether the unemployment benefit rate should be higher and also the unemployment benefit rate. And another question that has been raised many times on the table: should the duration of unemployment benefit depend on the economic cycle? I think it is clear that in 2018, when the unemployment rate was low, there were many job vacancies in the labour market, it took a person much less time to find a job than it is now, or for example in 2008. Perhaps, then, it would be logical for unemployment benefits in today's situation to be paid longer in order to help people find a job. In 2018, this process was faster. There are certainly other proposals that can be discussed on unemployment benefits. And lastly, I ask whether the crisis should suddenly be seen as an opportunity. The pace of teleworking in Estonia is now very high. This is possible in Estonia because we have quite a few digital solutions in place. Maybe after the crisis, it should go on, so we're not going to go back to our regular work routines, going to the office, we're going to work the same way. I would like to stress that there is no need to amend the Employment Contracts Act. Time has proven that the Estonian Employment Contracts Act has survived quite well, which allows for teleworking in times of crisis and other times. I would not be hasty to make such fundamental changes, but at the same time we may also see opportunities in the crisis that can be exploited. To sum it up. I hope that the impact of this crisis on society will not be very significant, but by looking realisticly at the experience of previous crises and today's statistics, unemployment and poverty are expected to grow quite a bit in the near future, and these effects will come to us for a long time in the future. Today we can decide, think about what we're doing to mitigate these risks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U36	Thank you very much, dear waitress. Now the questions. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Two slides are of more interest to me than others, not that others are less important. Today we read a proper analysis of the Daily Paper, where Raimo Poom analyzed how different Ratas governments, contrary to the fact that they have promised to help people to be more equal, to make society more cohesive, have actually made the rich get richer and the poor get poorer. There are risk groups on your slide. Maybe you'll expand a little on what happens in this crisis to the unemployment of high-risk groups. I think this is a pretty strong message, actually, about what the current government is doing. And to ask you another question: do you really think that we will be able to get out of this crisis without prolonging the payment of unemployment benefits? And how much money is there to do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U38	In answer to the first question, I think that risk groups will suffer regardless of policy. Unfortunately, in the event of a recession, those groups that have reached the labour market last, whose competitiveness on the labour market is less, will leave the labour market first. I'm afraid that's the rule. These risk groups include people with disabilities, older people, very young people, non-Estonians. I think that the role and task of the state in this crisis is to try to help these risk groups. The second question was whether I think we can get away without extending unemployment benefits. There is, in itself, no clause in Estonian law that would allow the payment of unemployment benefits to be extended during the crisis, and this is not the point of discussion as to whether this period should be extended or not. My personal opinion is that it should rather be possible to extend the payment of unemployment benefits in a crisis situation. But the other way around, if the economy is doing very well, perhaps there might be a way to shorten their time of payment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U39	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U40	Thank you. I do not know whether we are talking about one real thing in the case of unemployment benefits and wage subsidies, which were now introduced during the crisis. But my question has prompted both you and Ardo Hansson's presentation. He stressed very much the effectiveness of the measures, especially at the next stage. We have talked about this with Eesti Pank early on: at the beginning, the survival measures are broad and then more precisely. In the case of wage support or unemployment benefits, as far as I am concerned, have you taken into account the idea that even support may not be the most effective way to keep the economy and the social side up?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U41	Yes, in designing this measure, careful thought was given to how to select companies: to whom to grant support and to whom to not grant it. There were very different options on the table. It started with the idea that it might be possible to draw up a list or define the sectors to be supported, not supported. The problem is that, since the crisis is so highly impacted and so universal, it is extremely difficult to say which sectors are in trouble, either today or in the future. This situation is made more difficult by the fact that the data arrives with a delay. It would be best to predict this on the basis of tax data, but they generally arrive with a one-month delay, even with a slightly longer delay. So that's not very possible. Instead, it was decided to filter companies on the basis of own contribution. Some companies are not in a position to survive in the future, and it is their own contribution that helps to filter them. They simply don't have the point of taking action if they're going to lay off anyway. And there's also a ban on dismissal. On the other hand, these criteria, which have been set, must have fallen by 30%, at least 30% of people's working hours or pay must be reduced by 30%, and which will also be checked, will help to exclude companies that are actually doing well, but who would also like to use the measure. These were aspects that were taken into account. In retrospect, could anything have been done better? There are certainly aspects that need to be reviewed for the future, but I think that in general they are those filters that help to reduce the loss of efficiency. If you think about what you should do, I think you should review some of the risk groups. For example, today, it is seen in practice that the members of the management and control body have subsequently formalised a contract of employment and this will help to misuse the measure. When designing a new measure, this should in no way be ruled out. Maybe the limits aren't quite right. Given that some sectors have more than 90% loss of turnover, 30% is suddenly too low. I think these are the places that need to be debated.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U42	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! There are also certain errors in the comparison with turnover. Perhaps this reference period was simply anomaly in both negative and positive terms, and therefore the decision to support may also be inadequate. But my question is that it says on one slide that this possible circle of beneficiaries of unemployment benefit could be expanded. How logical is it, anyway, that when we talk about the insurance principle, at some point the state wants to expand this circle? In itself, the motivation is understandable, it is such a social step due to the need for the moment, but could it mean that in this case the State itself will directly compensate for these costs, not at the expense of other insurers?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U44	Well, that's a question to be discussed. After all, we have a situation in which employment relations have changed quite a lot and self-employed workers often work in the same roles as ordinary people with a contract of employment. I would like to mention, for example, taxi drivers: a taxi driver can work with a contract of employment, a contract of command, a self-employed person, a private limited company. Should we try to offer them all the same social protection? Should we require them to pay the same taxes, but on the other hand also offer the same right to receive social security benefits? If the answer is yes, then we should extend the circle of insured persons, say, they all pay exactly the same taxes, pay unemployment insurance contributions, but receive unemployment benefits in exchange for the situation where their work is lost, the taxi no longer travels, the unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U45	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U46	Thank you. Honourable waitress! If we look at unemployment benefit, we can see that it is below the limit of absolute poverty, according to my memory, somewhere under 190 euros. And people who have received or are slightly over the minimum wage will receive unemployment benefit, which is 50% of the minimum wage. Actually, it doesn't make any sense. Have you thought that, for example, for the first 100 days, this rate could not be 50%, but perhaps 70 to 80% of a person's previous salary, and then 50%? In fact, when people pay taxes, they must be able to live with this money, even at a minimum, if they become unemployed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U47	Thank you for your question. Yes, these proposals have been made. This proposal was already becoming a law in 2008 and shortly thereafter. In the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Board, trade union representatives have very often made this proposal. Yesterday, when the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund held a meeting, a different amount of the same proposal was also discussed. Cost estimates have also been made as to how much such a change would cost. In the end, the question is whether we are prepared to face a greater financial burden in order to increase these replacement rates. It is right that, especially in the case of unemployment benefit, many people get into absolute poverty if they only receive unemployment benefit. At the moment, the solution is that they will receive more income support if their income does not exceed the poverty threshold.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U48	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U49	Thank you. Good waitress, my question concerns the payment of the salary allowance, i.e. the pay allowance. Under the current scheme, it will be paid until the end of May. This period is from March to May, during which it can be implemented. To quote the previous speaker, an artificial coma is clearly not going to recover by the end of May. At the same time, as was feared, KredEx's measures have not been implemented in such an effective way as to provide real support and assistance to these companies. My question is: have you modeled what will happen if the wage subsidy is not extended? And since you can imagine that this will mean a very rapid rise in unemployment, is our retraining system, which should support those who have lost their jobs, ready for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U50	I think that the best picture is, in fact, the usual economic forecasts, where the unemployment rate is projected without taking into account pay compensation. For example, the Ministry of Finance has forecast unemployment to increase to 12% this year. This is probably the most realistic answer to your question. If today's unemployment rate is 7.9%, it is expected to increase to 12%. Some forecasts are even sadder: I think 15% is offered by Eesti Pank, if I am not mistaken. To the second question, whether the Estonian retraining system is ready for such a burden, I dare say that yes, the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund is ready to serve all the unemployed, to offer all its clients services that can be offered, including labour market training. The current situation has put pressure on the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund in that it is understandable that if offices have to be closed, some services cannot be provided as effectively. And if training in classrooms cannot take place, it will be harder to organise them in digital format. But it's possible. In general, however, I am sure that the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund is a capable organisation capable of providing services to the unemployed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U51	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You have given examples of unemployment here, now it has grown to 48000. Someone's expert predicted it could grow to 100,000 in the autumn. Right now, you mentioned a percentage of that was 13, right? Compared to the previous crisis, you always compared it to this one, the highest figure was 13.4% in the first quarter of 2010. After that, unemployment got smaller. You've analyzed a lot of topics here. As a professional, what do you recommend to politicians as the most effective measure?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U53	Thank you. Of course, the most effective measure, given where this crisis comes from, is the relaxation of restrictions. The sooner we heal, the sooner we can return to the previous system of things, the more effective it will be, the sooner the economy can start to recover. As Mr Hansson pointed out, I think the question of borders is crucial. A very large part of the Estonian economy depends on the number of tourists in Estonia. Latvia and Lithuania are undoubtedly very important for Estonia, but Finland is even more important. About 2 million tourists from Finland and 200,000 tourists from Lithuania visit Estonia every year. So the reopening of the movement between Finland is very important, especially for the tourism sector, which is hit hard, but also for wholesale and retail trade. This is definitely point 1. How do we endure the crisis, and how can we continue to live as a society without imposing major restrictions? Many steps have been taken to do this. Secondly, when we are talking about poor and social problems, unemployment, probably the most effective measures to be taken are to allow job breaks. This will enable the unemployed to earn additional income, help them to stay linked to the labour market. In my opinion, it should also be examined whether the Estonian unemployment insurance system is generous enough or not, especially in a crisis situation. The question here is whether replacement rates should be increased, the duration of payment extended or both should be done. And we should also think about how this will affect unemployment traps, especially when we emerge from the crisis. But at least it should be on the table right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U54	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question is also about wage subsidies and their future. It is clear from your report that unemployment is increasing, while the cost of two months, as you said, has been 250 million. What happens after the end of May? Is there a plan to continue this measure? And since this cost is so high, should any choice be made between those sectors that have been hit more, or should it be assessed who needs to be kept alive more, who has a greater impact on size, turnover or number of employees? Any ideas or plans about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U56	First of all, I will explain what the legal framework within which we can operate is. Recently, the Riigikogu adopted a legislative amendment that allows the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund to use up to 30% of the unused funds of previous years to provide employment services and benefits. To finance the existing measure, we had to use 23% of the reserves in previous years, about a quarter. There is a further 7% of the reserve, in the order of EUR 50 million, which can be used further without amending the law. When it comes to whether the measure can be extended, whether it should be extended, we may probably be able to use, above all, this reserve of EUR 46 million, i.e. more precisely, this amount, plus the money, if anything is left over from the existing measure. Whether it remains, it is too early to say, it will probably be clear in the coming weeks if it is known exactly how much compensation has been paid for April. If so, what should be the conditions? Obviously, conditions need to get tougher, as the cost of one month has now been in the order of EUR 100 million. It's hard to say exactly, because the data on April is still coming. However, it is obvious that we do not carry it out financially, at least within the limits of the available resources. Much has been said about the European Union's TERA instrument. It is an instrument that allows the state to borrow in order to take measures of this kind, such as remuneration. TERA does not allow the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund to borrow, but the Estonian State. So if it is to be used to finance and extend the payment of remuneration, it requires a decision of the honourable Riigikogu, because an additional budget must be drawn up for this purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U57	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you for this very thorough presentation. You operate here with the money from the unemployment fund, and the state has taken out a loan. That's what you were just saying, you can put that money in business, but you could actually put that extra money in people in a crisis. We should not only look at these unemployment funds. Keit Pentus asked me a question about education, and I'd like to take it from there. We could potentially have 100,000 unemployed. It is very important for these people themselves to do well in the future, but it is actually very important for the future economy. It depends on how the country is doing. So it is important what the skills of these people are and what they could learn. You answered the question that the unemployment fund is fine and the unemployment fund is ready. I note that the question is not whether the unemployment fund is ready. I ask whether these measures, these opportunities to learn, and also the grants, are sufficient in such a situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U59	Thank you. First of all, of course, the state needs to allocate money to the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund and continue these measures. There are legal possibilities for this. In fact, every year the state allocates a small amount to the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund to finance these services. This amount can be technically increased. But this is a political decision, which must eventually be taken by the Riigikogu. To the second question: Do people benefit from learning, are there sufficient opportunities? In general, we have tried to link education to the needs of the labour market in Estonia. We have tried to take into account what skills are required in the labour market, what is lacking. The OSKA system has been developed for this particular purpose by the SA Vocational Chamber. The problem is that these assessments have been made in relative darkness. We do not know exactly how the crisis affects the labour market, what skills are necessary after the crisis and what are not. That's one obstacle. At the same time, I think that schools will continue to have the capacity to provide this type of study. Maybe here you should think a little bit wider, think about how people can learn when they're at home. For example, one resource that Estonia has largely unused is MOOCs, on-line courses that are offered to develop skills and which are often at rather low cost. The course offered in the Coursera environment often costs only 30 to 50 euros. On the one hand, the use of these measures is not very costly, on the other hand they can be used on a massive basis, there is no limit to the number of people. But the problem is that, first of all, these courses are often English-language and English-language skills, and even digital skills are lacking for unemployed people, these opportunities cannot be used. In addition, it is difficult to check whether people actually use them or not. But anyway, the palette of opportunity to do is huge in itself and it can be used.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U60	Let's take one more question. Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U61	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, you have begun your presentation by pointing out the difference between Estonian-speaking and Russian-speaking people on the "poverty scale." The difference is, above all, between women. Yesterday, ETV+ was a live show where parliamentary parties discussed the government's work over the last year. It was the question of citizenship and language that was raised very strongly there. But there was no mention of poverty. So we are talking about the so-called Russian question through citizenship and language, which also affects poverty. But here's my question. As an expert, you will definitely have a proposal for politicians when you started working on this subject, which is definitely close to your heart, and what to do to bring the standard of living of Estonian and Russian-speaking people to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U62	What is the difference between non-Estonians and Estonians, especially women? There are three aspects. First of all, the language issue. The Estonian language skills of non-Estonians are often poor and this reduces their chances on the labour market, especially in the long term. Investing in the knowledge of the Estonian language is certainly something that will help to alleviate this problem. The second aspect is regional. The situation of non-Estonians on the labour market is worse because many of them live in Ida-Virumaa, where the economic situation has recently deteriorated. Their jobs depend on certain sectors of the economy. Investments in Ida-Viru County will certainly help to improve the situation. And the final aspect is the skill portfolio. Many non-Estonian women have worked in sectors where the share has fallen. The textile industry, for example, is one such area. Investing in upgrading the skills of non-Estonians will certainly help to bridge this gap.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U63	Thanks to the waitress! The time for questions and answers is over. Thank you very much, and thank you to the questioners. I would now like to ask the next waitress, Mrs Kaljurand, who is a Member of the European Parliament. There are 20 minutes for the presentation, 20 minutes for questions and answers. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U64	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm very happy to be in this hall. I was here about a year ago, but I've been watching everything that's going on in this hall. Sometimes with joy and pride, sometimes with disappointment and disgust, but I still feel like I'm your former colleague. I'm very happy to share my thoughts with you here today. My thoughts do not claim to absolute truth, and I will not be able to deal in detail with all the issues concerning the European Union and coronavir within 20 minutes, so I will try to talk about what I consider important, and I will try not to repeat what has already been said by the previous speakers. At its April plenary session, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on joint action by the European Union to combat the COVID-19 pandemic and its consequences. The resolution states, among other things, that this is the moment of truth for the European Union, which will determine its future. In fact, the European Union has already had one moment of truth, and many are still ahead of us, linked to this crisis. The first moment of truth lies behind two months when the principles and freedoms on which the European Union is founded and for which the European Union stands collapsed like a sand castle. Member States must retain the right to decide on their own security and on the measures to be taken to ensure the security of people, health security, foreign policy security, etc. It is clear and understandable. Security issues have been, are and will remain within the competence of the Member States, but this does not mean that there should be no cooperation and coordination between themselves. What was wrong? The fact was that there was no coordination between countries, no agreements were honoured, agreements were ignored, whether it was the Schengen Treaty, border control or helping each other in a crisis situation. March 2020 showed very clearly what our lives could become if, instead of the cooperation of the 27 Member States, the European Union became an alliance of 27 separate states. Let me remind you. The goods did not move, the supply contracts were not completed, the citizens who wanted to return to their home country were trapped behind national borders for days. It was a picture I don't want to see in the future. It was disturbing to see Russian warplanes taking aid to Italy. Disturbing because, knowing Russia, I can say that nothing is done without reason, and we will hear about the cost of helping them. In retrospect, it could be said that this was a successful information operation. Anything more? I doubt it. The European Union was in clinical death. I use this concept, although I think it basically means virtually the same thing as artificial coma. The European Union was in clinical death when people looked to their governments for help and saw that governments could not agree on everything, they looked to the European Union. There were questions about where the European Union is, why the European Union is doing nothing. People wondered, the opponents of the European Union rejoiced. In the media, the sentences were: 'We said that the European Union was meaningless and doomed. ', 'We said that the European Union cannot decide or act effectively. ' The tragic fact is that the lack of cooperation and the inadequacy of the European Union were criticised by those who previously fought fiercely against all forms of cooperation and against empowering the European Union. Today, two months later, however, it is good to see that at least according to the magazine Politico, the support for right-wing populists in Europe falls from Italy and Spain to Germany. There are also exceptions, with the exception of countries where right-wing populists are in government: Hungary, Poland, Estonia. Where, then, was the European Union at the beginning of the corona crisis? I think it is wrong to talk about the European Union as such. I want to talk about the various institutions and I will start with the European Commission, which has not only coordination tasks, but also has measures to decide on the freedoms in force in the European Union, in particular the free movement of goods. The Commission failed us all. There may be different reasons. It is said that the Commission had little work experience, they only started in December. It is said that the members of the Commission were unable to agree among themselves. The President of the Commission is said to be a poor guide in times of crisis. There are probably many of these reasons, and the biggest reason was what was also mentioned by the previous speakers: the unexpected crisis and the lack of the most basic readiness. If the President of the Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, later apologized to Italy and the Italians, then we can simply say: too late, too little. All the people of the European Union who have been let down by the institutions of the European Union deserve an apology. All families, friends, colleagues, who have been killed by the COVID-19 also deserve apologies and sympathy. We are talking a lot about fighters on the front line, we are talking about them as heroes, but heroes are actually all those people who followed the measures imposed by the states and thus returned not only their own health and life, but also the health and life of their colleagues, friends, families. Perhaps this is my too European Parliament's view, but I would have liked to see and hear more of Commissioner Kadri Samson. To hear his own views as well as more detailed information about what the Commission is discussing, what the debates are and where they are going. The Commission's press releases and Keit Kasemets interviews and some social media tweets do not replace the Commissioner's communication with his people. I often wondered what former Commissioners Kallas and Ansip would have done in this situation. I don't think they'd have been in the shadows. I don't think they'd have been quiet. Or am I wrong? I admit that the European Parliament was also in clinical death for a few weeks and still does not work as effectively as I would like. Today's European Parliament is very different from what it was a few months ago: plenary sessions take place by video, only those who are in Brussels do not have substantive discussions, voting is a mixture of printing, scanning, transporting crosses and waiting for results. We wait for the results for hours. But the European Parliament works, the working groups, the working committees. And unlike the Commission, the European Parliament was able to meet as soon as it was necessary to come together and adopt the first legislative changes necessary to combat the epidemic and the whole crisis. The first was the package of measures proposed by the Commission to combat COVID-19. This package of amendments was adopted in substance unanimously. I have seen in the past that the European Parliament is voting so unanimously on animal protection issues. It was symbolic. Even the political forces that may have disagreed showed that the European Parliament is ready to come together, that the European Parliament is ready to support the measures that the countries, the Commission, agree, despite the fact that in some countries the corona bonds and the European Stability Mechanism have become intriguing words that cannot be used. Now we can only hope that the willingness to compromise that emerged in the preparation of the package will be transferred to the next budget strategy. The role of governments in responding to the crisis must not be underestimated. On the one hand, governments have a responsibility to ensure the security of their people, to instill confidence and to build trust. On the other hand, governments also have a duty to cooperate with other governments. Following yesterday's and the day before yesterday's news, I must acknowledge that the Baltic States have taken the lead and are listening to the Commission's recommendation to start opening up borders between neighbours and with pendulum workers, next to moving to opening the Schengen area borders and then to opening up borders for citizens of countries that have not joined the Schengen Agreement. The crisis is not over. Summaries of the crisis are being made, but it is clear that the beginning of the crisis is going down in history as a failure of the European Union and a stain of shame. At the same time, mistakes are learned. At the beginning of this week, a meeting took place with the European Parliament's leadership, where Ursula von der Leyen stated that the Commission had taken over a hundred decisions since the start of the crisis. The way in which they will be implemented will be indicated by time. The second moment of truth is now that the crisis has begun and the Commission's exit plan is being implemented. The Action Plan states that three principles must guide exit from the crisis. Firstly, decisions must be based on science and, above all, on public health. Secondly, action needs to be coordinated between Member States. And thirdly, the basis for success is trust and solidarity between Member States. We all know that political documents are easier to write than to implement. We can only hope that this political document will be implemented and that the principles proposed by the Commission will guide the implementation of this political document. The third moment of truth comes when the Commission presents its recovery plan in the coming weeks. Does this become the Marshall Plan with the concordance that there will be no rich American uncle anywhere, and the money we have to find ourselves? Can an increase in own contribution be agreed in the next EU budget 2021/2027? Will it be possible to agree on the terms and conditions for issuing bonds and the role of the European Stability Mechanism? How will the fall in GDP of 7.5%, which is currently forecast, be overcome? Economic and financial measures depend much on the European Union. I was very interested to hear Ardo Hansson's extremely clear and concrete presentation. But, good listeners, getting out of the COVID-19 crisis is not just sticking to the economy, it is much wider. And I would like to continue with the next moments of truth. What will happen to the principles and values of the European Union that have been properly rapped in times of crisis? In the shadow of the crisis, can we get rid of our responsibilities and responsibilities? I'll start with solidarity. Unfortunately, the word has acquired almost the same negative taste as the word 'politik'. Once again, solidarity is spoken and written, unfortunately, the principle of solidarity in the European Union is increasingly being done less and less frequently. I would argue that there is a crisis of solidarity in the European Union and that sending masked diplomacy, masks back and forth between Member States, does not hide it. The crisis of solidarity did not arise overnight; it crept up step by step. It sneaked up during the migration crisis between 2015 and 2016; it sneaked up when net contributors did not want to increase their contribution to the EU budget; it sneaked up when the old Member States did not agree to treat Eastern European farmers equally with those of Western Europe. This list may be continued. But naive are those who think that problems will disappear if they are not spoken of, or that the corona crisis will erase unpleasant matters. We'll take the fugitives. Let me remind you again. In 2015, countries were unable to agree on a voluntary relocation of refugees. The Commission then introduced quotas that pissed off a number of countries, and negotiations on the European Union's refugee policy ran into the sand. Today, five years later, the Commission is preparing a new draft, where, according to the current information, solidarity is strongly recommended within it, not to say voluntary. One solution could be the regime of financial obligations or sanctions for countries that do not accept refugees. If it does not meet the demand for solidarity, it must be paid for, and not cheaply, certainly not with a couple of border guards or blankets and pillows. I also have a very specific proposal for the Government of the Republic of Estonia: to show solidarity, and more importantly, mercy and humanity towards children in refugee camps in Greece. These are unaccompanied children, or minors, who have fled from Syria and arrived in Greek refugee camps alone, without parents, without escorts. There's about 2,000 of them. It's hard for me to imagine what these kids had to see and experience. They're away from their families, some of them probably don't have a family. They live in a refugee camp, they're vulnerable, they're scared, they're deprived of a normal childhood. Like I said, there's a couple of thousand kids like that. A few weeks ago, Ylva Johansson, European Commissioner for Home Affairs, appeared in the European Parliament. He has repeatedly appealed to all European Member States to show mercy to children, to receive them and to give them back the childhood taken away from them by the Syrian civil war. As of today, about ten countries have agreed to accept children and the first children will be going to Luxembourg in the near future. Lithuania has been the only one of the Eastern European countries to express its willingness. There are still negotiations with some countries. I do not know whether Estonia is among the countries with which negotiations are taking place. I really hope it is, but I'm afraid it isn't. I am proud of Lithuania, and I would like to be just as proud of my country. I want to turn to your conscience, dear members of the Riigikogu. Every child has the right to a happy childhood, every child has the right to education, every child has the right to a safe and caring living environment. Estonia has the opportunity to give them back what the war took away. I know that Estonia has experience; Estonia has the opportunity to do so. It's about the courage to decide and the courage to act. Let us show solidarity with Greece and, more importantly, humanity against children. This is a small step for Estonia, but it is a very big step for every child like this. And if anyone is afraid that children will bring the COVID-19 virus, Commissioner Johansson has confirmed that all children have been tested and that is out of the question. Only children with negative tests leave the refugee camp. Let me remind you: solidarity between European Member States is not an option; it is an obligation arising from agreements that is part of European values. Solidarity cannot be compulsory, just as Christian worldview and humanity cannot be mandatory. They must be self-evident and voluntary. Secondly, I want to talk about cooperation at different levels. The crisis showed how weak cooperation between Member States is in times of crisis and how vulnerable the common market in the European Union is. Once again, it is understandable that the Member States are primarily standing up for their citizens, but the attitude towards cooperation and coordination of activities can be changed. The principle of joint action must not be an obstacle to a rapid and effective response to the crisis. The common market must not be the victim of the crisis, but it must be the solution that brings together the capabilities of the Member States. Just as in the European Union one country, acting on its own, cannot solve the crisis internationally. The crisis can only be resolved in cooperation with the European Union and globally. In this sense, the European Union's international initiatives are very important, starting with the collection of money for the development of vaccines and ending with development cooperation and support for partners. Thirdly, I mention human rights and democracy. The European Union's response so far has shown that human rights and democracy are and remain fundamental principles of the European Union. The crisis does not save Member States from responsibility. Both the decision of the Hungarian Parliament to grant exclusive power to Prime Minister Orbán for an unlimited period of time, as well as the organisation of elections and judicial reform of the President of Poland, has merited execution. With regard to the latter, the European Commission also launched another legal procedure this week. I recognise that questions have also been raised in the European Parliament by the decision of Estonia and Latvia to activate Article 15 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which provides for the suspension of certain human rights. Tomorrow we will celebrate Europe Day. This European day will be different. There are no crowded events, there are no tents in the Liberty Square, there are no embassies with open doors. But that doesn't mean we're not celebrating Europe Day. The question is whether for us this is a European day that is united and strong or one that is broken and fragmented. Is this a day where national flags and the flag of the European Union are side by side, or where the flag of the European Union is removed from the hall? One where we respect the European anthem or one where we turn our backs when Beethoven's Ode to Joy starts playing? Speaking of human rights and democracy, I would also like to congratulate my colleague in this Chamber, Riho Terra, a Member of the European Parliament, who has joined a very sharp criticism of Poland and Hungary. He also sent a letter with 12 people from the Group of the People's Party of the European Parliament asking Orbán to exclude the Fidesz Party from the Group of the People's Party of the European Parliament. I would also like to wish the same principles of protection of human rights and democracy to the other politicians of the Fatherland. Why must countries be prepared if they do not respect human rights and democratic principles? They must be prepared to pay for it or rather receive less financial assistance and support from the budget of the European Union. If you don't get it good, you get it good!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U65	Would the waitress like...? Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U66	I'm out of time, yeah. That's what I got. I would end with a sentence where I recall Schuman's words in the Schuman Declaration, which he said 70 years ago: 'Europe is not being built at the same time or according to one plan. It will be built through individual success stories that will, first and foremost, create de facto solidarity. " It is symbolic that Schuman made his declaration after World War II, the greatest disaster of the 20th century. We live on the brink of the greatest crisis in the 21st century. Are we ready for the new Schuman Declaration? I have no answer, but I know that today we have the power to create the next European success story. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U67	Thank you very much, dear waitress. A round of questions. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U68	Thank you. Good waitress! Try to predict what happens next. How's it been, that's what you've been talking about. Europe, in my opinion, failed in quite a number of dimensions during the crisis, but we also have inadequate signals from the United States to look at large centres, and we have China, which is trying to take advantage of the situation. The current points are that China discovered the epidemic, not that it was triggered there. Can Europe be better than a stronger centre so far? And do you think China will succeed in what it wants, and will the United States survive such leadership?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U69	I thank you for these many questions. I'm not gonna speculate about whether or not China discovered the virus in the labs. I don't know. They're talking about it, but I'm not gonna speculate about it. I also do not want to use time to answer the question to talk about what the United States will be like. I am talking about the European Union. And let me give you a concrete example. In December 2018, Jeffrey Sachs, economist, Professor of Columbia University, Ardo Hansson, performed in Estonia. And I'm quoting him. When Johannes Tralla asked the professor what he suggested to Estonia, he suggested that we contribute to education, science, innovation and social democratic philosophy, which would say that we are all one society, so that everyone can be a part of it. I see the future of the European Union in the same way that there is more commitment to social democratic philosophy, that countries are equal, that people are equal and that there are fewer differences, that there are discriminatory grounds that my previous speaker spoke about.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U70	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U71	Thank you, good Vice President of the Riigikogu! Good waitress, thank you very much for an interesting presentation. My question concerns you very well know this in the area of business diplomacy. It seems to me that there is an opportunity hidden in this crisis. I think that if we contribute to business diplomacy and the creation of trade relations, then we will give our exportable companies a certain advantage by the time the world, Europe, Estonia, is coming out of this crisis. Do you agree with this assessment? And what could be some specific ideas and ideas that Estonia could start to organise in this area today in order to be more successful in the next growing season?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U72	I think it is no secret that I have always very much supported Estonian foreign trade, Estonian companies. This is the only future scenario for Estonia: to be open and support our companies. More specifically, we all know, for example, how big IT giants like Apple and Google now, but also small companies are working hard to create an application to track the infected and warn people. Why not support why not support Estonian companies so that they are the ones who can win this fight and whose applications will be used internationally. This is also the reason why I am critical of the foreign minister's preference tomorrow in the UN Security Council to talk about the consequences of World War II rather than to talk about an issue that would be of direct benefit to Estonian entrepreneurs, which would support Estonian companies and Estonian science. Science and entrepreneurship are very intertwined today. We're all proud of our scientists who developed the COVID-19 test. So let's support them so they can take this test to the world! We're gonna get over our local problems! Let's talk about them when the crisis is over. During the crisis, we support our companies and talk about these issues that are important globally.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U73	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U74	Thank you for a very good and emotional presentation. A lot of things got you thinking. But when it comes to cooperation within the European Union, in fact, the mistakes that have come out in the light of this crisis have given the levers to the opponents of the European Union. Can you tell us where we can begin to reduce these concerns, how we can improve this cooperation? You were talking about some things here, but one, two, three points, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U75	First of all, the fact that the countries finally agreed and agreed on the financial perspective and the economic measures is a huge achievement. Remember how the heads of state were negotiating in one corner, another in another corner, the southern states and the northern states, no agreement could be reached. Finally, it was agreed. The first thing I would like to call is that this will of agreement be passed on. Now specific issues. Like a digimate. For years, digital taxes have been discussed. Taxation is a national competence; it is not disputed. But perhaps now, in times of crisis, it is time to discuss a digital tax that could have been introduced jointly by the European Union, jointly by the Member States, not so that Google, Facebook and others are all sitting in Dublin, where the tax system is confusing, complex and permitting exceptions. And perhaps another area: health. Again: health is the competence of the Member States. But the crisis has shown that more cooperation is being sought in this area. There is a desire for more cooperation to better face up to the next crisis, which will certainly not be so severe, but some kind of crisis will come. Plus the main theme right now: vaccine. And what to do if the vaccine is invented, it will be equally accessible to all rich countries, poor countries, richer and poorer people, all sections of the population. A specific mission! And I feel that the European Union now has a desire and a desire to mobilise forces to achieve such individual goals.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U76	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U77	Good waitress! Thank you for bringing the idea of saving Europe to this morning, bringing children as an example. It can't leave anyone unscathed. But I'm addressing you as an expert on foreign policy. You referred briefly to Russia. As we know, the closure of the Russian border affects one part of Estonia particularly badly, it is Ida-Virumaa. The service, tourism, 70% of which is related to Russian tourism. After the crisis, could relations between Europe and Russia change in any way? And could it have anything to do with Estonia? Could it have anything to do with Ida-Viru County? That's what they ask me every day in Ida-Virumaa, and I'd be happy to refer to your position.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U78	Katri, thank you! I would speak for the next 20 minutes at least, but I will try to be very brief. As far as the opening of borders is concerned, here I fully agree with what all people who are familiar with the subject are saying. We must be guided by the real situation, by science, by health care. Could relationships get better afterwards? This key is not in Tallinn. This key is in Moscow. As long as Russia does not change its behaviour internationally, I cannot imagine that political relations can improve. But this does not mean that there should be no people-to-people relations, cultural relations and cross-border cooperation. It's been and it has to be. However, on a political level, I simply cannot imagine that something could change before Russia's attitude to international law changes. I refer very specifically to the occupation of Crimea, the occupation of Georgia and other cases in which Russia has acted contrary to international law. And when I said that Russia would do nothing free of charge, I will explain that I look forward to what will be decided on the extension of sanctions and how will the countries to which Russia sent masks vote in favour of extending sanctions. Unsatisfied or not, it was nice to watch it on TV. Not all of them, I said wrong. We saw these activities on TV. How are these countries going to behave now? Will they undermine the unity of the European Union in its relations with Russia? I see the strength of the European Union precisely when it comes to speaking with one voice when it comes to Russia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U79	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U80	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I come back to a question my penguin touched. It connects to China. All the Chinese masquerade diplomacy they've practiced has received some attention. And that has been one of the reasons why it has been thought that China will emerge from this whole crisis with an even greater footprint than it was at the beginning of the crisis. But this is not the only example of China increasing its influence. Last week, one agreement with Hungary remained, which received surprisingly little attention, although China signed a loan agreement of more than two billion dollars with the country of the European Union. They are kindly prepared to build a piece of railway from Budapest to Belgrade. Against this background, the European Union is talking about a coherent Chinese strategy. My question is: where in the European Parliament's view is this coherent Chinese strategy when Member States enter into separate agreements with China in this form? And how does the European Union or the European Economic and Social Committee even see relations with China in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U81	I will start with whether there is a common Chinese policy. Well, it's on paper. On paper, we all speak the right words. But you have to see what's really going on. In fact, we see, yes, that different Member States have different attitudes to the Chinese economy, to Chinese products, to Chinese goods. Some countries are very cautious about concluding contracts with Huawe, 5G services, others are not. So this country's attitude towards China has been different. China has made extraordinary use of this crisis to present itself in the world. Let's see where this story comes from and where the discussions and studies are going, whether this corona virus really came out naturally and naturally, or if it's from some lab somewhere. Let's see where this is going. European Union... Now I am talking about what Mr Borrell, the head of the European External Action Service, was actually doing well. He came to the European Parliament and explained how to deal with China's information operations and how to understand what China is actually saying. In essence, he placed Chinese information operations on the same stick as Russia's. What does the European Union have to learn? I think one thing to learn from this crisis is that we have to do better with ourselves. I refer to 5G networks and other services, even the same masks we buy from China. If the European Union is smart, the European Union will do more to manage itself, to guarantee independence, and also economic independence. It must not depend on China. But these are my wishes and my vision. Well, the reality tells us what's going to happen. China has made very good use of individual EU Member States against others. He has, for example, skilfully isolated and dealt with Central and Eastern European countries much more than with Western European countries. So China is very successful in promoting its interests, defending its interests. We can only hope that we will be able to respond properly to China.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U82	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U83	Thank you. Madame waitress! When it comes to the European Union's preparedness for crisis today and its preparedness for crisis in the future, I wonder whether there have also been discussions about whether there must be better coordination between Member States in order to prepare for crises. Is there a need for a central body of the European Union, a new bureaucratic machine, or is the solution, for example, that someone from the Commission's Commissioners is tasked with coordinating crisis preparedness today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow? What have these discussions been?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U84	Discussions have been wall-to-wall, starting with the fact that the current system is the best, the Member States decide, do not talk to each other and we go on in the same way, and, indeed, that there could be some additional crisis regulation in the European Union, a crisis response mechanism that not only concerns health, but also, I do not know, security, natural disasters, whatever crises can come. Are Member States giving up their right to decide on their own security? No, I won't. So I do not think that there will be a situation where the European Union dictates a common crisis response policy. And I think that's right. Security, as well as foreign policy, must remain a matter for each country. But cooperation, information transfer, even now, could be much better: much faster, much more effective. I have always been in favour of a stronger and more united Europe. The stronger and more united the European Union, the better the Member States are, the better we are. Whether these negotiations will succeed will be shown by time. The proposals are now being put on the table, they are coming from everywhere, from all political groups. After the moment of the crisis, we can start discussing them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U85	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U86	Honourable Chairman! Good waitress! I very much agree with you that more 'Europe' is always better than less Europe. But the question...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U87	Depends on which one.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U88	A united Europe. But the question is, for the last three months, that the rest of the world and Europe have been fucked up. While at the beginning of the year the main issue or priority was the fight against climate change, there are now clearly new objectives: there is a need to support people in distress, businesses, countries. How much of this old priority, the environmental theme, is left? Perhaps this crisis is an opportunity to strengthen support for environmentally friendly new technologies as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U89	Thank you for this question. And I very much agree with you. Indeed, the crisis brought forward other issues that need to be addressed now, now and now. People, businesses, the economy, the response to the crisis is absolutely necessary. But everything that the European Union has worked for, even all the principles presented by the European Commission before Parliament when they wanted Parliament's support, must not disappear. Above all, climate, environment, energy. What about financial support? It was already known before the crisis that the Commission would come up with very ambitious plans for which there is no real money. I think that the next budget will now be better agreed. I think that more than 1.2% of GDP will be made available to countries. How much of this goes to the environment and climate-neutrality measures, how much goes to dealing with CO2 quotas, it is a matter of negotiation. I very much hope that the Estonian Government, which starts these negotiations in the European Parliament, will arrive when the Commission and the Council have completed the first negotiations, will continue the current climate policy, will not withdraw from the requirement of 20:50 and will not play with CO2 quotas. And here I look again at the members of the Riigikogu. It is within your power to influence the government, even in opposition.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U90	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U91	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, It's so good to see you in this hall! You gave a very professional, but also a very optimistic view, true enough, of your concerns. Previously, social issues have also been very often on the table of the European Parliament. I know that these are different in different countries, but when you look at the incomes of the elderly, they are unequal, and there is also inequality in the case of carers. There is no risk that these issues will disappear from the table due to the current crisis? Or is there hope that they'll come on the table more? What is to be expected in this regard? I mean the social sector, people's livelihood.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U92	Thank you for this question. I was talking a little bit about inequality and equality. And I am a Socialist, I am a member of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, which means that these issues are at least very, very important for our group, and our group was very strongly behind the current temporary measures. For example, we supported compensation for people who have lost their job or compensation for the loss of pay. We had more proposals, but other groups did not support them. As far as the future is concerned, I believe that this crisis has affected people's thinking. Before I came here, I read a summary which said that 84% of the citizens of the European Union want the minimum wage to be compulsory. I say to those who do not deal with the minimum wage every day, that this does not mean that there is a certain amount of minimum wage in force across the European Union, but that each country sets its own minimum wage. So people have become more aware of their social rights, their social guarantees. I just very much hope that this time, when people are fighting more for their social rights and where countries are obliged to help people more, will be used to address all social issues more widely.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U93	Thank you. We only have a few seconds left to deal with the questions. We are therefore forced to stop asking questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U94	There's 22 seconds left.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U95	All right, quickly ask for 15 seconds! [[Katri Raik says something about the place.]] Katri Raik!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U96	... is a highly charged topic in Estonia. We know that 9 May is treated very differently in Estonia among the Estonian-speaking and Russian-speaking population. I've always felt how politically charged this is. Tell us, what can we do to make 9 May a calmer, more beautiful spring day in Estonia, which would bring Estonians and Russians together more in Estonia rather than separate them?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U97	I have also said this before that, as ambassador to Russia, I took flowers to the memorial of those deported, to the memorial of the victims of communism, and to the victims of the firing squad. I believe that the memory must be respected, and it must be done without incitement to hatred, it must be done respectfully. My best day for Europe was a few years ago on Sillamäe: the children and their parents first took the flowers to the monument of World War II, and afterwards they met in the hall and discussed the future of the European Union. The ideal for me is 9 May, where it is remembered, commemorated, done with dignity, without incitement of hatred, without provocation, without screaming at the slogans against Estonia. And on the same day, we are talking about the future and the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U98	Thank you. I thank the waitress. Next is the presentation by Indrek Saar, Chairman of the Social Democratic Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U99	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! Good people who follow us through the transfer and think along with us! First of all, let me warmly thank our experts, rapporteurs Marina Kaljuranda, Ardo Hansson and Sten Andreas Ehrlich. Sten has already been dragged into the debate outside the hall, which also shows that the subject is heated. So I thank you very much for these thought-provoking presentations and for looking for and pointing out possible solutions. Hopefully, we will soon emerge from the greatest health crisis that has hit us in those times we remember. Fearless, to be confessed, has been great. The problem is even greater. And, unfortunately, that problem has not gone away yet. However, we have been getting more and more under control because we have all worked together. Thank you very much to all those who have stayed at home, missed their loved ones, worked long - distance, learned schoolwork with children. Thank you also very much to all those who have continued to work hard on the frontline, thus ensuring that our society continues to function. This has been a exhausting and difficult period for everyone, but our joint efforts have resulted. The virus will resolve, and we can carefully begin to remove restrictions and return to our normal lives. Or can we? Is life going to be the same as before, or is there going to be a change? And is there any reason to want everything to continue exactly the way it was? Let us remember for a moment life before the crisis. Was society healthy and strong enough to go forward together? Did it seem fair to us that everything in our social order was moving in the right direction? No! More and more people were worried about the growing inequality tearing apart our society and the extremeism that feeds on it. Instead of a knowledge-based society, populism and the continuous invention of an enemy inside and outside took on more and more ground. Pre-crisis Estonia was also characterised by growing concern about the decline of rural areas, loss of biodiversity, increased intolerance and ridicule of climate problems, fear and helplessness when your loved one needs a nursing home and you do not have such income to enable him to do so. Crisis situations often have a tendency to further exacerbate inequality and the sense of injustice. This also happened after the previous economic crisis. While the Gini coefficient showing income inequality temporarily decreased during the crisis, it started to grow rapidly immediately thereafter. It has to be said that it once again turned the fall into a socialist government. Judging by Gini's coefficient, the inequality fell dramatically throughout the time we were in the government. It wasn't all a coincidence. The decisions taken by the government during the previous crisis affected what happened after the crisis. That's the way it is this time. In times of crisis, we need to think about which Estonia we want to see afterwards. Unfortunately, I still have not heard what future Mart Helme, Martin Helme, Jüri Ratas and other members of the government are thinking about when they make today's decisions. And that's the only way to conclude that maybe you don't. We have the opportunity to emerge from the crisis as a smarter and caring society as a community that notices those in need and has enough solidarity to ensure that people are not alone in their troubles, where the weaker are not left to the market, the stronger have more empathy and the state has more capacity to come to the aid of those in need. I believe we want and can do better. And I know I'm not alone. Inequality must not be allowed to grow. Getting out of the crisis must be fair. But we have to think about that now, because it will be too late in the future. In order to prevent the economic crisis from increasing social divides, it is necessary to act wisely, to have a longer view and responsibility for Estonia's future. The first thing to do is to return to the implementation of the research agreement, i.e. to make such an indispensable investment in the financing of research and development, which flew overboard in a short-sighted way in this year's budget. Without investing in science, the structure of our economy will not change, and we will remain stagnating in the productivity of our labour force, as it has been since the beginning of 2010. The growth in our well-being will remain a challenge, as there is not enough innovation in business to keep up with the rest of the world, and entrepreneurs will be able to pay their people a decent salary. Of course, businesses need to overcome the crisis, but it has to be meaningful action, acting on clear criteria, and not an aimless money culture. The current loan money also has a ceiling and all loans will have to be repaid someday. You cannot help indiscriminately, for example, those companies that were already in difficulties before the crisis. In such cases, you have to think about supporting the people who work there and finding a new job for them, not saving this company, this body. In the case of large strategically important companies, it is necessary to overcome the current simple-scale attitude that the state is always a bad host. As life itself confirms, it does not hold true. The country can be a good owner. And if the market doesn't work, there's nothing left. We have good examples of large islands shipping connections and domestic passenger train traffic management, where a state-owned company has been able to offer a better and better service than a private owner. The state-owned Estonian Teed was able to offer serious competition to the private sector that caused the market distortion in road construction and bring prices back to the ground. If the State sees a future in a company in need of aid, then the acquisition of a stake in such an enterprise should be seriously considered in addition to the granting of the loan. As the experience of countries which have acquired holdings in companies during a crisis has shown, such a temporary participation can bring a decent return to the taxpayer. Would I entrust such decisions to the current Minister of Finance? I wouldn't. But I believe it is possible to create an institution that has the skills and capacity to carry out such transactions and also to leave the company on time. In the end, all Estonian people will win. And smaller businesses need to be helped. The printing of central banks still reaches those who are bigger and stronger, who are less risky to lend during the crisis. This will make it easier for them to take over small businesses in difficulty, to whom there is no alternative to being sold during the crisis. This is not fair, nor is it beneficial to the economy in the long term. Excessive concentration reduces competition and inhibits development. When planning investments, we must not act in a short-sighted manner and subvert ourselves with delusions that the corona virus has delayed our natural and climate concerns. The climate disaster that threatens us has not gone away, even though for a moment the pandemic has distracted us. If we fail to make the necessary structural changes with the support of favourable loan money and European wealth funds or, worse, invest in environmentally anti-environmental obsolete technologies, we will tie ourselves to the mast of the sinking ship. Investing in a green turn is our moral duty to future generations and will boost the economic environment by helping to create a number of viable and prospective jobs. And, of course, we must also take the lead on this issue at European level if necessary, as Marina has just made clear in her report. The current crisis assistance focuses primarily on the economy. It makes sense. But even more important is how our people cope in the crisis, after the crisis. If both parents in a family with children have worked in catering for tourists, they must not go to the bank because both parents have lost their jobs and income. Of course, Estonia's banks, who have jointly agreed on flexible payment leave solutions for both housing and various consumer borrowers and business borrowers, should be recognised. The existing agreement will remain in force until 30 June. Unfortunately, the problems in the economy last much longer. We need a system whereby people in distress with loans are given such assistance that temporary difficulties can be overcome even in a slightly longer perspective. And there must certainly be effective support for all our good people who lose their jobs in the crisis, regardless of their form of employment. Anyone who has worked otherwise than under a contract of employment will, unfortunately, be without assistance in the crisis, even though they have paid taxes correctly. The state does not provide any support to those self-employed with a lower turnover. Especially sad is the situation when these two forms of service combined have ensured a person's livelihood, but now the state is not helping either way. In my opinion, this is not fair, and I believe that many others do not. We must also not allow people, despite contributions made over a long period of time, to be deprived of insurance benefits if they give in to the pressure of the employer to terminate the contract of employment by agreement between the parties. The unemployment benefit system needs to be substantially improved, and this must be done now and now. In fact, this should have been done a long time ago, because this particular exclusion has been unfair all along. I fully agree with the proposals contained in Mr Ehrlich's presentation to make the necessary changes: the granting of job breaks, the increase in the compensation rate and the extension of payments during the crisis. The crisis reminds us once again of the importance of international cooperation and of the fact that the well-being of one country always depends on the well-being of other countries. The presentation by Marina Kaljuranna today illustrates this vividly. Just as greenhouse gases do not stop at national borders and ask for permission to enter, so do viruses. No country, no matter how big it is, will be able to eliminate the threats that threaten the whole world on its own. Hiding from the rest of the world will not help solve either the current crisis or future unexpected events. On the contrary, when the neighbor's house is on fire, it is known that the best course of action is to help him to erase it, not to close himself in his house and wait for the fire to reach it. That is why we need effective European cooperation more than ever. And there must be effort and solidarity for cooperation. For Estonia, international cooperation is certainly more than the way to cope more successfully in crises. In an export-oriented country, a world where countries think only of their own short-term livelihood means less well-being for their own people. The international arena, which only applies to Realpolitik and everyone is fighting for themselves, is a very high security threat for Estonia. I recall that the predecessor of the European Union, the European Coal and Steel Community, was established after World War II with the aim of ensuring peace in the future. The reasons for World War II, however, can be looked for in the major economic crisis that devastated Europe and the whole world 90 years ago. Many societies were completely divided in the crisis, with tragic consequences for the whole world. Cooperation during and after the crisis is vital for us. To expect it from others, however, we must be a pioneer in our conduct. Here, diplomatically speaking, the government has room for improvement. To sum it up. The Corona virus has brought us many sufferings and trials. In order to try to reduce them, we have knowingly put our economy in an artificial coma, as Ardo Hansson has pointed out. Now is the opportunity to get the economy back on track. We will do it wisely and better than in the last crisis. Let's not cause any more suffering and injustice. We will do this in such a way that the inequality is reduced and Estonia is fairer, happier and more successful as a result. Let's go on as a healthy, stronger and sustainable society! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U100	Thank you. You have questions too. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U101	Thank you for your good presentation. Indeed, if we look at the current situation, we have an emergency situation, we have a health crisis, we have a stagnation in the economy. And as far as the social implications of this are concerned, the social crisis has already begun. And it's probably getting worse, not probably, but definitely. These measures, which are now, have only delayed them. Can you say or read the socialist proposals that could specifically reduce the sudden decline in people's well-being? It is in the social sense that will help survive the crisis and the post-crisis period too?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U102	Thanks for the questions. I understand that the answer time is not actually limited, and I saw that 14 minutes and 40 seconds took me to report that call. Now, if I report this again and read these measures, it would still be an abuse of your time. But briefly, it is very important in this crisis that we think all the time that we do not create new injustices so that we do not create further inequalities. And it actually came out of all the earlier reports in one form or another. This buffer at the moment of stumbling, this airbag is much larger in part of society than those who have traditionally had lower incomes, who are also at risk groups on the labour market, mentioned by Mr Ehrlich. When designing each of our measures, we should consider whether we can target support in such a way that those who are most vulnerable do not fall over the edge of the boat. I think this is one of the lessons of the previous crisis that we could certainly take into account. The previous crisis was, of course, different; making choices in some ways was more difficult. But by analysing what the results were in the previous and other crises, and not only in the crises that have arisen in Estonia, we could act on a knowledge-based and value-based basis and concentrate on those who are most in need.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U103	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no more questions for you. Now we can go to the negotiations. Members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups may speak. At the request of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I propose that there be representatives of the political groups speaking first. Speaking may last five plus three minutes. First, I want Kaja Kallas to speak here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U104	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, How life will change after the crisis is, in fact, a question that everyone would like to answer. Are the scenarios that show that everything is changing and nothing is ever the same, or are those where it is thought that it will not bring about major changes in our behaviour and society? I don't think our behavior is going to change completely and radically. However, I am sure that changes in some areas have come in order to stay. All scientists in the world seem to agree on one thing: The disease has come to stay. Perhaps there will also be new serious diseases that will be triggered because people have forced nature to retreat in front of their actions, and this is a reaction. So we have to learn to live with that risk. So if the disease does not go away, then the key question is in the near future: how do we face the next wave? In replying to this, we should consider three aspects in particular. Firstly, health and health, secondly, the economy, and thirdly, how our own behaviour has changed and is changing. First of all, health issues. How is our health system prepared for the next wave of illness? Have existing hospital facilities been adapted to treat infected patients separately? Is the staff trained? How can we quickly identify the lesions? How can we quickly separate the sick from the healthy? How can we quickly collect data and draw conclusions from it? Estonia is a small and flexible country, so we should have an excellent opportunity to take advantage of existing digital solutions in order to turn the data collected by the state into open data without compromising the privacy of individuals, so that new solutions can already be provided on the basis of these data. Our health care facilities are small and flexible, it needs to be exploited. Certainly, it must not be the mistake of rejecting private medicine. Their knowledge, skills and resources could be of great help. Second, the economy. It is clear that another such closure will not survive our economy. Will life recover in all economic areas as before the crisis? I don't think so. Tourism will probably not be restored anytime soon. In industry and construction, the blows are still coming. Those whose supply chains are linked to the nearest countries where the economy will continue to operate will win. Similarly, those who have introduced more automation and robots, which do not require so many people to be together physically, will probably win in the long term. The state can channel people's behaviour through taxation. The tax system has long been based on the way people lived and worked in the last century. However, life and our conduct have changed, things that we consider important have changed. The crisis gives us the opportunity to review what we are taxing and why. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U105	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U106	Thank you. Thirdly, however, I am sure that the way we live, learn and work has changed irreversibly. When, at the beginning of this crisis, a message came that schools were going to jail, we had an argument at home with children. I thought in two weeks everyone was gonna be sick and want to go back to school. The kids thought it wasn't gonna happen, and the kids were right. At least in our family, distance learning is very good for children. They like to be home, do things at their own pace. They seem to be happier and less stressed. I do not think that distance learning remains to its full extent, but there are opportunities to implement it in part. The lectures of good teachers can reach farther places in Estonia and children can access education even if they are away from school for some reason. Work is probably not the same either. People have discovered that working at home has its charms. Whoever can do this probably wants to continue this at least to some extent after the crisis. Buying on e-channels was a completely new start to this crisis, and it will probably not disappear in the future. Especially when there's gonna be a new wave of the virus. What does all this require of the state? First, good internet connections across the country. If working and learning from a distance is a new norm, then associations must operate anywhere in Estonia. Secondly, it certainly means further development of the e-state. The fact that people reduce personal exposure should become the norm and must also be met by the state. Any communication that a person has to make with a country should also be possible through e-mails: requests for possible permits, exchanges of documents, etc. The collection and management of national data must also become more operational in order to identify and isolate potential outbreaks and then respond to them. Thirdly, the state should improve the e-school in such a way that teaching at any time can be done via e-channels. And in all of this, we must not forget that if the virus is the reaction of nature to how we have used our environment unreasonablely, then we must encourage activities that do not suppress nature and do no harm to the climate. In the light of the current crisis, it is kind of in the background, but it gives us the opportunity to actually respond to it through taxation, and it will be more important than ever. Let's not let the crisis go to waste! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U107	Thank you! Next, I'd like Kersti Sarapuu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U108	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank you very much for the meaningful presentations that have been made here today and for a very good analysis. The specific situation that has been put in place as a result of the spread of the Corona virus is at the end of the line, and we very much hope that we will be able to draw almost that line by the end of next week. Thanks to a concerted effort, the pandemic is under control and the number of infected is decreasing. For some time now, the government and the Riigikogu have been working to ensure that the exit from the emergency situation is as smooth as possible and that health-related aspects are taken into account. Challenges and crises awaken our talents; they make us become aware of the talents we possess to overcome them, as said by a spiritual leader in India. This special situation has also made us look at our surroundings in a new way. I'm sharing some ideas here. According to the IMF forecasts in April, the global economy will shrink by 3% this year, which is much greater than in the previous financial crisis. The European Commission is forecasting Estonia to fall by 6.9%, which may not be final either. In a baseline scenario where the virus is expected to disappear in the second half of 2020 and economic activity is expected to return to normal, the global economy is expected to grow by as much as 5.8% next year. Of course, that would give us hope and motivation to survive this difficult time, but in reality, we will see what is happening. What, then, is the so-called new economy, our new way of life? On Monday, shopping centres open their doors, shops, services and restaurants again. Apparently, some doors remain closed, but this does not necessarily mean that the company has ceased its activities. It is possible that during an emergency, a niche was found in the field of e-commerce and now other routes are reached by the client. We remember the recent headlines that the delivery service at the grocery stores had weekly queues. The situation is now returning to normal, but there are certainly many people who have discovered the charms of e-commerce, as Kaja said earlier. It will be interesting to see how quickly air traffic and people's confidence in warm country vacations recover. I think it is important that we and the resort destinations are able to deal effectively with stopping the spread of the virus and further prevention. What about business trips, conference tourism? Will businesses continue to give face-to-face preference to meetings, or will web chats be used more actively? The value of the online Zoom has increased over the last few months, and we use the Teams environment very often here. Estonia has not only relied on the private sector to recover from air traffic. The government has taken the initiative and allocated 30 million euros to airlines, in particular to Nordica, which guarantee Estonia connections to our important destinations. Obviously, we have made the biggest and fastest development leap in the field of education. It warms my heart to listen to older teachers with great enthusiasm about how they conduct online lessons. This is a good example of how open the people of Estonia are to change and ready to step out of the comfort zone. Running lessons online requires a new approach and different learning materials. We could make a strong contribution to this area and market these solutions globally. I myself have just found my own physics teacher over 70 who is very active in promoting the same kind of e-learning. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U109	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U110	Indeed, Ene Sarv is a very strong physics teacher and was also very innovative in my school time. Estonia is approaching this crisis differently than it was ten years ago. Support for companies and local authorities will alleviate the recession and future-oriented investments can be made for less money, whether it is the construction of four-line highways, the construction of an oil shale oil plant based on Enefiti technology, or the reconstruction and demolition of apartment buildings. But it is clear that we have a great deal to do. The constant wash of hands has become a new norm. Hopefully, we'll soon be able to hug each other again and wish each other strength. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U111	Thank you. Let's make another call before we extend the hearing. Call chair, Raivo Tamme, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U112	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable ambassadors! "The visitors" can no longer say, there is only one guest left, so I say: a good guest! How can we proceed as a whole society? I believe that society as a whole is a very, very important national issue. I would like to come to the proposals that have arisen during today's presentations, which I have written here during the sitting. How would those members of society who remained healthy during the crisis still be healthy after the crisis, and those members of society who did not stay healthy but have recovered or are recovering continue to be healthy? As long as the vaccine to prevent this virus is not yet in place, and as long as there is no specific tablet to treat this virus, I believe that society can be healthy primarily through a healthy lifestyle and a sporty lifestyle. It was very pleasant to see people moving around in nature during an emergency and it is very welcome to see many sports clubs already actively organising virtual sports competitions. The new situation has been adapted very quickly. I call on everyone to support them and also to set a personal example, to participate in these virtual competitions and to use other opportunities to move forward as a whole society. Although the media also responded to the frightening news that sporty people, as well as younger people, are also affected by this virus, I still think that these cases are isolated. And if such a person had not been athletic, he might not have recovered at all. And the viral disease that causes difficulty in breathing is certainly much more difficult for a smoker than for a healthy person. So let us pay even more attention to a healthy lifestyle in order to move forward as a whole society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U113	Thank you! Since we still have a number of speeches to hear, we must put an extension of the sitting to the vote. I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Social Democratic Party to extend the sitting until the agenda item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. There are 14 members of the Riigikogu, against 1. The hearing is adjourned. And now I'm asking for Aadu Black.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U114	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, who are still in the Chamber! I have to say that I have not only a pleasant opportunity, but also a great obligation to talk about the fact that the members of the Riigikogu have dealt with a problem that has risen to the agenda not only now but also long before. We are talking about the activities of the Baltic Assembly, which holds the presidency of Estonia this year. I am honored to be President of this Assembly. This year, on 5 May, a conference was held on 'Baltic countries after the crisis'. It was preceded by a pretty long preparation period, but this crisis seems to be a long one. In preparing the materials, we worked together with the Nordic Council and the Benelux countries of the Baltic Assembly, Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg. Some of the conclusions drawn at this Baltic Assembly event deserve to be repeated today. First of all, it was said that, in times of emergency, the implementation of concrete measures, as has been repeatedly said here today, is the case, in particular, for governments. However, both the Nordic Council, Benelux and the Baltic Assembly are of the opinion that parliaments have the task of looking ahead, and the success stories of those countries that have come out of previous crises say that in times of crisis, parliaments really have to look ahead. One feature which, by the way, is characteristic of the Estonian Parliament, however, has been that, as in the military, it tends to be: the generals are good at winning the previous wars, the ones that were once. You don't always get ready for the next one. Let it be said that this was also reflected in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. Remember when we were discussing the laws of times of crisis, some came up with arguments that this measure had not yet been needed during this crisis, so we are not discussing it at all. But as the representatives of the Nordic parliaments, representatives of the Benelux countries and, in addition to Estonians, Latvians and Lithuanians have declared, the most important objective of the parliaments is one and only: that the country and countries and regions emerge from the crisis as strong as possible in international competition. Therefore, the Baltic Assembly discussed the most important joint actions possible for the Baltic States in the fields of economic, energy, social and educational policy, environmental cooperation, as well as defence policy. Inevitably, major projects were the subject. There was talk of Rail Baltic, of course, and you know how colleagues from Latvia and Lithuania looked at us. A few years ago there was a major problem that if Lithuania wanted to make Rail Baltic from the south to the north and from the north to the south of Estonia, Latvia thought that their share could be from the east to the west. There were already fears that some members of the Estonian Government would say that Estonia now wants to do the opposite. These fears were broken down and analysed how large joint projects were needed to promote our economy. I repeat what has already been said: the world will never be the same after any major crisis. I remember from the history books that some people thought that when World War I was over, there would be peace again and everything would be the same. But the world was new. While this corona crisis is not as powerful as World War I, many things change. The Baltic Assembly discussed the fact that a number of these bottlenecks, which we will otherwise see in everyday work, will be amplified during the crisis. Some are more amplified, others less so, but all the lessons need to be analysed and the necessary reforms made immediately after the crisis. Just in case, three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U115	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U116	There had also been talk here today about issues such as air traffic and tourism. They're on the table of the Baltic Assembly. Whoever's in there knows, of course. There was an old idea that the three countries would be more useful and economical to have a joint airline between the three countries. The so-called peasant's mind of the Baltic Assembly said: yes, we must think in this direction, but it must be preceded not only by economic analyses, but by policy analyses, and, sorry, not only by these, but also by legal analyses. We live in the European Union's judicial area and we must ensure that no one becomes a guest in their own home. There was also a great deal of talk about measures during the crisis. Since I can see that everybody wants to go home and on the bag, somehow it feels like they have to talk really fast. However, I also mention that the analysis of success stories shows that success requires maximum use of crisis time for learning, training. We have good ideas in this area, but the reality is rather mediocre. And by tearing ourselves out of context and running like a train, I also say that the position of the Baltic Assembly is that Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania will become an e-state from the moment we can give each of the students of the upper secondary school, each of the students of the vocational schools, the opportunity to use a personalized computer only during their studies. Because if you've become a parent and there's three kids and two computers in the family, you might think Mommy-Daddy's trial is gonna get a little too big. That's exactly the last mile question. So there must be technical readiness for study. And one more thing about studying. The Nordics say don't talk about civil wages! They've analyzed it. In ancient Rome there was a slogan 'Panem et circenses' for everyone with bread and circus. Rather, society would need to be a citizen's scholarship. If someone wants to acquire a specialty that has not been studied and can learn, and if it is precisely the specialty that is necessary to ensure competitiveness after the crisis, these people will be supported by countries: paying a scholarship, collecting people who are able to actually learn from the labour market. It's a guarantee of success. The Baltic Assembly also discussed, of course, operational cooperation, strengthening cross-border cooperation, as well as existing shortcomings in cooperation between the Baltic States and Baltoscandy, migration problems, etc. But I think we are talking about all these things in separate committees. The Baltic Assembly is working so that big documents come to our committees and a comprehensive overview, where the analysis of the Baltic Assembly reached, comes to the conference of the Baltic Assembly. So the job goes here and there. As President of the Baltic Assembly, I would like to stress that these were not an outsider's advice that someone thought somewhere, but that they were also based on internal ideas within Estonia and internal ideas within the Baltic States and on Nordic and Benelux experiences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U117	Thank you! Oudekki Loone, to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U118	I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U119	Please, an extra three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U120	Ladies and gentlemen, This crisis has disproved many myths. Firstly, as if the whole society were somehow functioning under the mercy of entrepreneurs, as if only they were creating new jobs, as if only they were creating new value and society should therefore be working under the baton of entrepreneurs. It is now excellent to see that without state support, without state intervention, the economy will not stand up. Secondly, the crisis has clearly exposed the fact that many new forms of work and the so-called innovative digital economy are actually a return to the 19th century, where workers lacked any rights. The paralytic economy, together with its Bolt, Wolts, Uber, Airbnbs and so on, is innovation only in the whistling of workers' rights and the evasion of taxes, but not in the creation of a really good service or product. The third myth, which was actually clear in the previous crisis, and for which I am pleased that Estonia has learned this time, is declaring the balance of the budget a sacred cow. Cutting at any cost will only lead to accidents. If we look at those countries that cut their health systems after the previous crisis, we can see that they are suffering badly. And I am really glad that Estonia has learned this lesson. Keep going. Our question is not how our lives change. Our question in this Chamber is how we change our lives after we have seen all these myths collapse. As Chairman of the Trade Union Support Group, I have a few ideas that I am happy to share with you. First of all, most people in Estonia are employees, people who have to sell their workforce to live. In the crisis, we see that new value is not expected because these people cannot use their workforce. Our employees are creating new value. And without the contributions of these workers, our country stands. Therefore, Estonia, after the crisis, must be one where the rights and interests of these people are protected to the best extent and in the best way. No one in Estonia can create jobs where there is no sickness insurance, unemployment insurance, holidays, right of association. We must not have jobs where workers do not have any trustees at all. In short, Estonia must not have any employees in the future without social protection and decent income. If a person gets sick, whether it's a cold or something else, he needs to be able to stay home from the first day to heal himself without fear of losing his income. No contract may be terminated without economically justified reasons. And when a person has worked, he has the right to leave the package. The situation in which people pay unemployment insurance contributions for years is, for some reason, going away on a voluntary or less voluntary basis and having to wipe out unemployment insurance aid is absurd and must be stopped. Moreover, unemployment benefit needs to be raised to a level that allows people to retain their dignity until they find a new job. I would like to remind you that our country's constitution states that the state is helping job seekers to find a job. This means that the state has a duty to find jobs for people. If the market does not provide enough jobs, it is up to the state to create these jobs. Not monitoring inflation, not controlling inflation, but full employment must be the measure of our economy and the North Star. But perhaps even more importantly, it is to give workers a real opportunity to stand up for their rights. There is no right if you don't fight for them every day. The best agreements for the protection of employees can only come from those who know and know their needs. This same paragraph of the Constitution, which was mentioned above, does not specifically highlight employees' organisations among other organisations and does not oblige the State to introduce such legislation so that their work can actually take place so that strikes can actually take place. The authors of the constitution obviously knew well: elections can be manipulated, the media can make an elephant out of the mosquito, but the work struggles are always real. No one can be forced to strike against their own interests. Job struggles are the foundation of our democracy. In order to establish fair and equitable employment relations, we must facilitate equal negotiations between businesses and workers. This means, above all in today's situation, that we need to introduce comprehensive sectoral agreements with the power of law. This means that associations and trade unions representing the sector will reach agreement on the working arrangements in force in the sector, wages, working time, other conditions. And everyone has to do it, whether it's the arrangement of these organizations or not. There are regulations in place for the whole sector. Only this will ensure that our economy will compete for a better product, for a better service, for real innovation, not for a better tax evasion, not for the fact that perhaps I can pay the employee even less in secret. An economy based on low wages and poor conditions brings wealth only to the few, but to many. Moreover, since it is clear that a new value cannot ever be created without work, it must be ensured that those who do work can also say how the work is managed, what the development of jobs should be invested in in the future. Important strategic decisions must not be taken behind the staff. This is, above all, a problem for large companies, and that is why the state should ensure that there is always a representative of employees on the boards of stock exchange companies and that there is always a representative of employees on the boards of large companies. This will ensure innovation, not the hustling of capital into individual pockets at the expense of all of us. I quote the first Estonian constitution adopted a hundred years ago: 'The organisation of economic life in Estonia must comply with the principles of justice, the aim of which is to ensure human dignity through the laws of that nature. ' I think it's our tradition. That's what we are. And this tradition we could now take with us and actually create a new life for Estonia where we feel that this country is for every working person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-07_U121	Thank you. There is no further request to speak. Today's theme of 'Life After the Crisis On as a Whole Society' is a very important and important issue in today's situation. I thank all the rapporteurs, thank the questioners, thank the speakers. That concludes the trial. Have a nice day. Closure of the sitting at 1.07 p.m.
