ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the 9th working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, there is the handing over of drafts and enquiries. Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U2	Honourable Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the law on enforcement proceedings and the law on bailiffs and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg. Secondly, the draft law amending the General Part of the Environmental Code and other laws (withdrawal of the Environmental Register Act). In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Minister of the Environment Rain Epler represents the Government of the Republic. Both of these draft laws have been transmitted through an electronic information system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U3	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, I handed over an inquiry to the Minister for the Environment about the human nature of climate change. Since we have the Chairman of the Riigikogu, who instead of empowering Parliament, tries to limit it, this inquiry was sent back. We have now specified questions for the President of the Riigikogu. We have introduced references to legislation that is really necessary under the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act in order to ensure that an inquiry is in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. It is strange, after all, to point out that the decision 'Climate policy fundamentals for the period 2050' in Estonia has been adopted in the Riigikogu. It is based on the widespread and generally accepted perception that climate warming has been predominantly man-made in the last 150 years. If the Minister of the Environment thinks otherwise, we certainly look forward to a clearer proposal, in the light of the renewed issues, to changing the fundamentals of climate policy in the light of this new knowledge, because, according to paragraph 36 of this decision, the Government of the Republic is, in fact, obliged to present updates to the fundamentals of climate policy, if necessary, at least every four years. We are referring to the fact that the Paris climate agreement is an international agreement that has been ratified in the Riigikogu and, as such, valid as a legal act, it must have been overlooked by the chair or chairman of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U5	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts and one inquiry. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Now for presence control.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U6	There are 86 members of the Riigikogu, no 15. Thank you. Dear Riigikogu, we are going to the approval of the agenda. I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the ninth working week of the fourth plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U7	There are 83 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U8	Today we have three items on the agenda plus a free microphone. The first draft law amending the Land Tax Act and the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 285. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of the procedure at first reading. First, the originator's report, up to 20 minutes, then the representative of the commission, as well as 20 minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu may ask two oral questions, the length of which shall be one minute. Then there are negotiations, only representatives of the political groups can take part in them. I would like to ask the Secretary of Finance, Martin Helme, to wait for the chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U9	Thank you. Since I'm at least two meters away from the others, maybe I can talk without a mask, I sound better. I bring before you the draft law amending the Land Tax Act and the Tax Administration Act, which provides the basis for the transfer of the Land Tax Information System from the Land Tax Administration to the Tax and Customs Board, and solves the problem that it is not possible to issue a land tax notice to heirs who have not yet converted property rights in the land register. In addition, the Land Tax Act is brought into line with the State Assets Act, according to which the obligation to pay taxes on state assets is a user of state assets. The draft law also specifies the Tax Administration Act, which gives the Tax and Customs Board the right to communicate information on the taxable person's tax liability to the municipality or city administration, where appropriate. The specific changes are as follows: The Land Tax Information System will be transferred from the Land Board to the Tax and Customs Board. There is an opportunity to forward a land tax notification to the heirs of the land who, although they have acquired the property right in the course of the succession, have not submitted an application to the land accountant to change the ownership of the land register. The Land Tax Act will be brought into line with the State Assets Act, according to which the user of state assets undertakes to pay the related taxes under the Use Contract. According to § 10 of the current Land Tax Act, only part of the obligation to pay the land tax under the contracts is imposed on the land users. The right of the Tax and Customs Board to communicate information about the taxable person's tax liability to the municipality or city administration is specified. More specifically, the Agency has the right to communicate information about the taxes of its resident to the municipality or city administration in order to better plan the municipal or city budget. The tax administration will now be the tax office, which will calculate the amount of land tax payable on the basis of the data submitted by the municipality through the Land Tax Information System. Currently, the controller of the Land Tax Information System is the Ministry of Finance and the authorised processor is the Maa-amet. Since the Estonian Tax and Customs Board is the administrator of land tax, the land tax information system should actually be located in the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, not in the Land Administration, and be integrated with the applications created for calculating land tax. The problem that has arisen in practice is that it is possible to circumvent the payment of land tax by heirs who, while having acquired ownership of the land in the course of the succession, have not submitted an application to the land accountant to change the ownership of the land register. In order to avoid such a situation, the Tax and Customs Board would in future be able to issue a land tax notification to the heirs of the land to whom the land ownership right has been transferred according to the succession register, i.e. to those for whom the succession procedure has been completed. In addition, as has already been said, the Land Tax Act is brought into line with the State Assets Act, according to which the user of state resources under the use contract undertakes to pay taxes on state assets. That's all for me. If you want to ask me, I'll answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U10	Good waitress, you have questions. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You mentioned a number of changes, which are certainly important, but they do not solve the fundamental problem of land tax, i.e. that land tax has been unchanged for a very, very long time, according to the 2001 valuation, it must be calculated. In fact, this means that local governments are losing substantial income, and they also lack the opportunity to decide on their income, because there is not much to decide about, these amounts are so marginal. How are we doing with this assessment, and with this topic at all, so that land tax can actually work as a land tax, being a source of income for local governments and otherwise affecting any trend in the market, as is his point?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U12	This has been agreed in the coalition agreement and has been dealt with above all by the Minister of State Administration, but at the end of the day, because it is scattered under several ministries, also the Minister of the Environment and myself. Basically, we are moving in this direction to make a new assessment. There really is a need for certain legislative changes and certain IT developments. According to the current plan, I hope that I will not make a mistake, and in 2022 it is planned to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U13	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U14	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Certainly a very important draft, because the land tax is received by local authorities, and that is a problem if it is not received. In preparing this draft, you will also have an overview of the problem that really exists across Estonia. What, then, is the amount of such unpaid land tax, precisely for the reasons that we are going to liquidate?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U15	Thank you. These amounts, of course, are not very high, especially in terms of the state budget. Of course, in the local government budget, they can make them feel more. But apart from making tax discipline better, we are also making bureaucracy shorter, we are taking one piece out of this chain and tax information is moving faster. This inheritance scheme is a problem, but it's not some kind of mass problem that gets behind it. Rather, in terms of budget, the point of state assets that we have in here is of greater significance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U16	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U17	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear waitress, In fact, there is also such a serious problem that the state does not pay a full land tax on the land under conservation, and the municipality basically misses it. There's a lot about whether there's a price for nature conservation. Even this tax context is one small example of this. But does this particular bill also apply to those municipalities whose territory is protected by protected areas actually receiving land tax for that? Because nature conservation is also a value that society has to pay for.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U18	This bill doesn't concern it. But I fully agree that this is a problem, not only for local authorities, but also for private owners.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U19	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U20	Thank you. Good waitress! You mentioned that this draft will also bring about a reduction in bureaucracy, hence some increase in efficiency. Does this effective growth have any financial dimension?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U21	In particular, it concerns local authorities, so that in the sense of the state budget, it does not.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U22	Thank you, good waitress. No more questions for you. Next, I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to hold a chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U23	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Land Tax Act and the Tax Administration Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, for the preparation of the first reading on 16 November, was invited to the discussion of the Finance Committee by Mr Helme, Minister of Finance, Helena Lehtis, chief specialist of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, Andres Juss, Head of the Real Estate Evaluation Department of the Land Administration, and Henri Lindeberg, Development Specialist of the Tax and Customs Board. At its meeting on 16 November, the Commission took the following consensual decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda, including 23 November, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for the amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 30 November, and to appoint a front speaker as the representative of the lead committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U24	Thank you, good waitress. No questions for you. Now we can open negotiations. But there is no wish for negotiations and we will not open them. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft 285. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 30 November at 5.15 p.m. This item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U25	Let's go to the next point. This is a draft law amending the Act on the ratification of the Multilateral Convention on the Implementation of Measures Relating to Tax Treaties to prevent tax base erosion and profit shifting initiated by the Government of the Republic. This is a first reading, and I would like to ask for a speech chair here by Minister of Finance Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U26	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I bring before you a draft amendment to the Act on ratification of the Multilateral Convention on the application of measures relating to tax treaties in order to prevent tax base erosion and profit shifting initiated by the Government of the Republic. This Convention was ratified by the Riigikogu on 4 December 2019. Today's first-reading draft introduces two technical amendments to the Convention ratification law. Firstly, the communication containing a list of tax agreements to which Estonia wishes to apply the Convention will be amended. The draft improves the data relating to the Belarusian tax treaty. The date of signature and entry into force of the contract shall be changed and the word 'Protocol' shall be replaced by 'Original'. As a second amendment, a communication is included in the Ratification Act according to which Estonia will apply the Convention to taxes covered by tax agreements from the beginning of the calendar year. During the procedure for the ratification of the Convention, the accompanying communication was in the English notification and in the reservation document, but it was not included in the draft ratification law. After the entry into force of the amendments, Estonia will be able to submit an instrument of ratification to the depositary of the Convention and the Convention will be applicable to Estonia. Estonia shall be bound by the Convention on the first day of the month following the expiry of three calendar months from the date of deposit of the instrument of ratification. In short, there are two technical clarifications, no substantive amendment to the Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U27	Thank you, Minister. No questions for you. The co-rapporteur is Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. In order to prevent tax base erosion and profit shifting, the Monetary Commission discussed the draft law amending the Act on the ratification of the Multilateral Convention on the application of measures relating to tax treaties and prepared it for the first reading at its meeting on 16 November. The draft was presented by the representative of the initiator, Minister of Finance Martin Helme. The draft amends the data relating to the Belarus Treaty in the table of double taxation agreements to which Estonia wishes to apply the Convention. As a second amendment, a notice is included in the Act, according to which Estonia will organise the Convention in respect of taxes covered by tax agreements from the beginning of the calendar year. The Commission made the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Monday 23 November, to close the first reading, to set five working days for the amendments, i.e. 30 November at 5.15 p.m., and to appoint a rapporteur for the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U29	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you either. Is there a wish to open negotiations? That's not what you want. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 286 be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 30 November at 5.15 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U30	And now we are going to the third item on the agenda, which is an inquiry. Enefit Green, subsidiary of Eesti Energia AS, submitted by members of the Riigikogu, Lauri Läänemetsa, Katri Raigi, Helmen Küti, Indrek Saare, Kalvi Tõud, Heljo Pikhof, Ivari Padari and Jaak Juske on 13 October 2020 (No 44). I would first like to ask Kalvi Tõud, a member of the Riigikogu, to represent the speakers of the chair. But the Rock Hard isn't... It's coming anyway. Please, the chair is waiting!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U31	Hi! I'm sorry! The previous points were over very quickly. On behalf of the members of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, we have made an inquiry to the Minister of Finance. The question is relatively simple. Enefit Green establishes a 4.2 megawatt solar park in Paldiski after dividing one plot into 84 parts. Under the Electricity Market Act adopted here, it applies for a separate renewable energy support measure for each rural unit with a capacity of less than 50 kilovolts. As we know, this support measure is primarily intended for small producers, but, as we also know, Enefit Green is not. Such a scheme is an oversight of the meaning of the law and an example that the state company should not show. After all, this is basically a major production. But this is the biggest problem for the consumer, because when disguised as a small producer, Eesti Energia's subsidiary will charge 53 euros per megawatt-hour, while a smaller offer for large producers could have a price of about 5 euros per megawatt-hour. For taxpayers, or Estonian people, this means 2.6 million euros in extra costs over the next 12 years. That is why we have two questions for the Minister of Finance, who directly owns Eesti Energia. These questions are as follows: The design of Paldiski's solar park, by dividing it into 84 small producers, is a misinterpretation of the law and a model that a national company should not show. This is an activity that takes 2.6 million euros out of the pockets of the Estonian people. Question 1: How do you assess the activities of Enefit Green and what is your plan as a general meeting of Eesti Energia on this matter? And the second question: 'Enefit Green requests support under the support scheme in force before 2017 for the establishment of Toots wind farm, while now the establishment of wind farms has become more profitable and it is possible to participate in a less bid, which is also planned in the coming years. As a result, people in Estonia would pay 300 million renewable energy fees over a period of 12 years. Do you consider such activities justified and what are your plans as a general meeting of Eesti Energia on this issue? ' Thank you. I hope that the Minister of Finance has received these questions earlier and prepared [answers]. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to spend any more of your precious time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U32	Next, I would like to ask for a chair of speech to answer the questioners, Minister of Finance Martin Helme. Any member of the Riigikogu may submit one oral question to the minister for one minute and after that negotiations can be opened. Please, good minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U33	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The figure created in the introductory part of the submitted enquiry, as if the law-abiding company were a schemer, is unacceptable to me. I understand that the ideology represented by the party of questioners is that the laws are only optional and should only be complied with if they correspond to the way you think it is right. But I think this approach to law enforcement is wrong and dangerous. Secondly, I would like to remind you that when the Parliament adopted the amendments to the Electricity Market Act in 2018, the EKRE Group voted against the amendment of the Act. There were votes for and against among the Social Democrats, which indicate in part that the honourable MPs obviously did not fully understand what the changes would bring. It is worth noting, however, that only Jaanus Marrandi was against the law at the time, who participated in the drafting of the law in the work of the Economic Commission and apparently understood the risks that the amendments might entail. Now to the questions. The first question was about the layout of Paldiski's 4.2 megawatt-sized solar park and the division into 84 small producers, which is, in your opinion, a failure to comply with the meaning of the law and an example that a national company should not show. First of all, I will read to you, just in case, § 59, paragraph 25 of the Electricity Market Act. 'For electricity produced with an electrical power generating device with an electrical power below 50 kW, a manufacturer may receive the support referred to in subsection 2 of this section if the electricity is produced by 31 December 2020 at the latest and the producer has not received any investment support from the State for the construction of the relevant production plant. ' Already in your questioning, you are twisting this law to provide the basis for asking a question. As you have just heard, the section of the law does not speak of a small producer, but speaks of a production device. The site is equipped with production equipment capacity that qualifies for support and additional conditions for obtaining support. Therefore, this is not relevant. In addition, according to the Estonian Commercial Code, the company, including the state-owned limited company, and its management board must act in the interests of the company and, if this were not done, the management board would seriously violate its duty of care. As a general meeting, I certainly do not intend to ask to act against the interests of the company. As a general meeting of Eesti Energia, I cannot take responsibility, nor can I make the company's board of directors responsible for the state's legislative cull. The State has created a specific legal framework for applying for aid on an equal basis for all producers and it is therefore not appropriate to prohibit legitimate conduct or income from one market participant. According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, by the end of this year, the total capacity of such production equipment could reach 250-300 megawatts. The Paldiski Power Plant, which is built by Enefit Green, has a capacity of 4,2 MW, or less than 2% of the combined capacity of all clusters. The estimated amount of support for the Paldiski station is EUR 225000 per year. Now the second question, which sounds like this: 'Enefit Green is applying for support under the support scheme in force before 2017 for the establishment of Toots wind farm, while now the establishment of wind farms has become more profitable and it is possible to participate in the less bid that is also planned in the coming years. As a result, people in Estonia would pay about 300 million renewable energy fees over a period of 12 years. Do you consider such activities justified and what are your plans as a general meeting of Eesti Energia on this issue? ' On the one hand, the Electricity Market Act entitles wind farms established before 2017 to ask for support under the support scheme at the time and, on the other hand, to a limit of 600 gigawatt-hours of electricity produced from wind energy to supported wind farms. On the arrival of the Eastern compensatory radar, Aidu and Varja wind farms alone, where construction activities have also started, will fill the volume of 600 gigawatt-hours, where €32.2 million of aid will have to be paid out each year. Upon entry into the 600 gigawatt-hour support scheme, the State will receive an additional 0.5 terawatt-hours of renewable energy for the same EUR 32.2 million without increasing the burden on consumers. Each production capacity plus 600 megawatt-hours will have a proportional impact on the support paid to the rest of the producers. In conclusion, this means that for the same amount of EUR 32,2 million per year, the State and consumers will receive more electricity from a renewable source. If Toots' wind farm were to participate in a less bid, this would mean paying consumers a renewable energy fee in addition, as the additional renewable energy support in the event of a lower bid should be paid to consumers who at the same time also pay support to wind farms benefiting from the old scheme for a fixed total amount of €32.2 million. If Toots' wind farm did not go into the old support scheme, the state would receive approximately 800 gigawatt-hours of renewable electricity for €32.2 million. Together with the addition of Toots to the old support scheme, 1.3 terawatt-hours of renewable energy, or about 60% more, would receive the same amount of renewable energy. If the use of the old support scheme on Eesti Energia were prohibited, the renewable electricity fee would increase in Estonia, making the total cost of electricity more expensive for both private individuals and business consumers, and Estonia would lose in international competition by attracting foreign investment into the country. In this sense, I do not see here the possibility that I would tell Eesti Energia that they must give up their request to participate in the first scheme, for which they are legally entitled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U34	Thank you, good minister. You have questions. First question, Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm asking Enefit about Green's arrival on the stock market. It's been discussed for quite a while, it's been planned, and probably the preparations have been made, I think you're familiar. Perhaps you'd like to give us an overview of the state of this process and when there is a plan to come to the stock market.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U36	Thank you. Indeed, the plan was to make this IPO first in the spring of this year, but then, as we know, there was a corona that confused all plans. IPO was initially postponed to the autumn of this year. Today's stock market plan is basically in a state of preparation, and as soon as we make a decision, we can go there within a few months. But at the moment, the situation on the investment markets, let's say, is broadly so complicated that it just needs to be seen here when some kind of normal economic situation will return to normal. Well, let's just say, as soon as possible, let's do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U37	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U38	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Martin! You're here to start by saying that we're dealing with welding here, and you blamed a little bit on whether this question was written in a polite tone. It's written in such a troubling tone. You also highlighted the Electricity Market Act, which was in the process during the last Riigikogu. As far as I know, you had a member in the Committee on Economic Affairs, you didn't want to put anyone there, but at our request, you finally put someone in. At the time, I thought you didn't care about the economy, but you do. Speaking of this debate both in the Chamber and in the Commission, I believe that in the explanatory memorandum to the draft, this measure was intended to enable small producers and energy security to produce electricity in as many places as possible in Estonia. But today, as we write in this inquiry, Enefit Green has divided one property into 84 pieces. He comes to this playground, which was actually meant for other applicants. And that's what a state company does. Honestly, doesn't this look like a bit of a mess to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U39	Thank you. Can't argue that it's bullshit. But who did this shit? This law changed during the proceedings of the Riigikogu, and very interesting small hooks were written into it, allowing for this kind of crap to be done. Once such a law has been passed in the Riigikogu, this possibility has been created, and I hear that one of the members of your group, who has entered the solar market diligently, will also use this opportunity, this market will be equal to everyone. If it is possible to divide into pieces and it is done by almost anyone who can read, then so is the case. I don't think it's right, I don't think it's reasonable, and I don't think it's a good use of taxpayers' money either. This will certainly not contribute to the achievement of our renewable energy targets. But this is the law that the previous Riigikogu has made.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U40	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U41	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'm going to continue with the Mart Võrguship's question of placing Enefit Green on the stock market. Timing is certainly important, but there are also transactions in the market today. Maybe you'll be a little more specific about what these major obstacles are. And related to this: what prevents a decision from being made to sell 100% of the company rather than a minority shareholding, as is currently planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U42	Thank you. Coming forward from the back, selling 100% of the stake is hindered by the existence of a political agreement. We don't have a coalition agreement that we're selling everything. We have an agreement to sell a certain part. That's just the way it is. The question of options. Now, another thing. What is preventing market entry? Here, yes, timing is very important, what is happening in the world markets. We want to get the best price we can for this piece. To this end, it is necessary for the portfolio to have as firm future plans as possible, i.e. investments. In fact, the same Toots wind farm is now an important part of this sales argument. The existence of Tootsi wind farm in the first or second scheme is not yet clear. Once this becomes clear, one of these important issues, which is still open, will be closed and will be able to move on with the IPO. But there are more things. First of all, this date has not been set for when to go, and even if it did, I shouldn't have to say it right now. I will stick to the fact that as soon as possible they want to move forward with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U43	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U44	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Since this year's support measure will be over, I wonder if there are any plans for the future to support or activate small producers in the future to build their power plants. Is there a plan like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U45	Thank you. This is, of course, more of a question to the Minister for Economic Affairs, who basically has energy policy under. But I have to admit, from the point of view of the Minister of Finance, there is one concern here. The creation of a solar panel scheme is likely to lead to significantly higher renewable energy costs than the forecast and the subsidy mechanism is more costly than expected. However, the forecast of the Ministry of Economic Affairs is that renewable energy charges will start to fall from next year and that will lead to a decrease in electricity prices. But here are the big stars: on this issue we do not really know today how many solar parks will be created by the end of the year. There may eventually be very large sums of money. At present, however, the Ministry of Economic Affairs forecasts that this volume will amount to 250 to 300 megawatts. Where did I have that number? [[Browse papers.]] Yeah, 250-300 megawatts.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U46	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U47	Thank you for the floor. Minister of Finance! I'd like to come to that Toots wind farm. When this auction took place, we saw that, in addition to the state-owned company, private investors were also willing to invest there. The offer was tight, the numbers were large, and this illustrated the fact that, in fact, in the current situation, investments would also be offered at market conditions. This is actually helping to expand our energy supply, without paying the tax payer's money to pay for renewable energy. Now we see that, under the leadership of Eesti Energia, this thing is moving in that direction, that it will all reach our electricity price as a premium, or a renewable energy fee. This is a significant amount, estimated to amount to nearly 300 million over 12 years. Do you think it is a good idea that Eesti Energia doubles us in this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U48	Thank you. I didn't understand this double taxation line, honestly admit it. But I want to be more specific. The reason why there was a very high appetite for Toots' properties was because anyone who would have bought Toots would have bought it together with these properties with the first scheme, because there had been preparatory work done there and the possibility of joining the first scheme or the possibility provided by law was actually available to all buyers. This was the reason why this price went so high that everyone saw the guaranteed income there through the subsidy, through the first scheme. In this sense, if we look at it from a different angle, we will collect the renewable energy fee from all consumers, and if its electricity is placed on the market by a public company, it will come to the state company [the renewable energy fee] and the state company will pay a dividend to the taxpayer's revenues, or the state budget. If it had gone to a private company, the dividend would have been withdrawn from a private company and the state would not have received dividends from it. I certainly don't want to say that money would have gone missing or wasted. The private sector must also generate revenue and is very good if it does. But the fact is, whoever wanted to buy this Toots Park had taken into account that they could participate in the first scheme. Now there are two things that I have already said in my first answers and which I want to repeat here. First, if Tootsi is in the first scheme, then the fixed amount will get more renewable electricity. We're just getting twice as much, 60% more renewable electricity for the same subsidy money. That's one thing. Secondly, if Tootsi is in the first scheme and belongs to Eesti Energia, the renewable energy fee that we collect will reach Eesti Energia, or 100% to the state company, and we can at least take back part in dividends. Or if we want to reduce dividends, we can offer a more competitive electricity price in the market. In any case, from the taxpayer's point of view, it will not be lost.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U49	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. Now we can open negotiations. However, I do not think there is a wish for negotiations, so this item is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U50	Everyone now has the opportunity to register for speaking in a free microphone after the hammer hit. Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, After Thursday's discussion of a crucial national issue here in the Riigikogu, I did not get any peace. We talked about the growth of teachers and the appreciation of teaching as one of the most important foundations of our country. The events of the day in my head were so strong, and the thought worked so hard that I couldn't fall asleep. A reminder of my first ski coach, the legendary Herbert Abel, who always appreciated the need to read books, must learn foreign languages and practice mathematics. He never got tired of repeating that there was a healthy spirit in the whole body, and he insisted that the brain should be trained just like that of his own body. So I tried, like a top athlete, to clear my mind and set new goals. In top sports, I often asked myself what I really wanted. But this time, I thought a little longer. What do I really want for a lovely little Estonia? This was the start: that the people of Estonia are happy and healthy, that we smile more and that every Estonian can do what he loves most. That's great. But more specifically. On one thing, I am absolutely certain: Estonia needs educated people. All parties agree, we have a consensus here. I was just talking to my sister, who lives in Norway and works there as a teacher. An article on teachers' salaries in Europe was published in the Norwegian newspaper. The teachers there came, the newspaper pinched, to my sister and asked if the salaries of teachers in Estonia were so low. Yeah, it's really embarrassing that we're talking about teachers' pay again. I think I've heard this story for about 20 years, but there's no solution. You know that saying to find your strength and bet on them? The strength of the Estonian state is education, as evidenced by the fact that Estonia is the world leader according to the PISA tests. Of course, we're proud, but only from a sense of mission, we won't be moving our education system any longer. After all, the compass shows quite clearly where to bet. Estonia has been looking for its Nokia for years. And a good education must become our Nokia. Education is the best place we need to invest, so we invest in our strength and our country's future. We must not be stuck in dogmas of the last century because the world is driving past us. Everything's changed so fast. Think of the same health and movement. In the old days, the children walked to school, then several days at practice, and after that, the evenings were playing in the courtyard. Now it's a rarity. But that's the basis of their health for the rest of their lives. Hence a very specific proposal. Each day of school should have one hour, which takes place in the open air and includes movement, regardless of the substance. But that's just one example. My point is much wider. We use this time while the quality of our education still endures and find a way to give children a good education according to the 21st century. No, I'm not talking about a math class in Zoom. Let's think about how to make technological developments and modern platforms actually serve education. This is what future children and future teachers need. We're investing big today, but we're saving a lot of money on fixed costs tomorrow to make teachers' salaries a thing of envy and a way to create a queue for vacancies. If our young people are wise, they are healthy. This is our future. And actually, that's what's a matter of national importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-23_U52	Thank you. There's no more calls. The sitting is adjourned. Outside the sitting, I wish Kai Rimmeli happy birthday.
