ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and honourable members of the government. Let's start Question Time! Checking for presence first. 21 members of the Riigikogu are present, 80 are missing. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of the Environment Rene Kokk and Minister of Population Riina Solman. As usual, the members of the pre-registered Riigikogu get the floor first, they get the opportunity to clarify the question, and then one question from the hall. There are two minutes to ask the question, three minutes to answer. And at the end of Question Time, I ask you to consider that there must be two minutes for the last question, three minutes for the answer and three more minutes for the minimum two minutes for the call to the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U2	First, Indrek Saar asks and is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U3	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister! On Monday, the emergency situation was over, and we'll continue in an emergency. That this is a very serious crisis, you also emphasised in your Monday political statement to the Riigikogu, saying that it is the biggest civil crisis that has restored independence in Estonia. And as your speech has shown, we are most likely to face the biggest recession in the history of the European Union. This leads to a number of concerns, not only health concerns but also economic and social concerns. Thousands of people have already lost their jobs and it is feared that there may be tens of thousands more, that many businesses will have to reorganize themselves or shut themselves down altogether, that social problems may increase, inequality and injustice in society. All these are things that require the attention of the very serious government and the Riigikogu during the crisis. However, it turns out that the organisation and control of the funding of political parties are also very directly involved in this crisis, because your party associates and coalition associates still handed over to the Riigikogu before you came to make your political statement, a draft which proposes abolishing the ERJK. It is not possible that you, as the chairman of a party, are not familiar with this issue. Please explain to us and to the Estonian public what is wrong with today's party funding control system. Why should it now be changed in a critical situation and a number of working hours of the Riigikogu be spent on it and a public discussion on this particular subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! I don't think I'm gonna stop at the introduction you did, because that's not your interest. Your interest is the ERJK, which you mentioned at the end of your question. Yes, we have, of course, discussed this between the three parties. If you ask me about my personal sense, it is that the quality of supervision of political party funding must be improved even more, it must become even more efficient, even better. I certainly do not question the competence of the National Audit Office in matters relating to reliability, impartiality and independence, as well as the resource and experience. On the contrary, I think it will also add more to the supervision of political party funding and give a new quality.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U5	Indrek Saar, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U6	Thank you! That was a very brief answer, and you did not essentially answer my question, which is wrong at this point, that it is now that this issue must be dealt with. In the public, this has been called, to put it mildly, a very cynical behaviour, that the Government Union is taking advantage of a critical situation in which attention in society is inevitably elsewhere and is doing something that seems to be in the interests of the government departments. It is no secret that the ERJK has so far come to terms with quite large sums of money or that it is precisely your party that has been called upon to repay quite large sums of money. It has probably been over EUR 2 million in seven years, if I remember correctly, and I understand that some disputes and claims continue to exist. Does it not seem to you that this gives a very wrong impression of what the Prime Minister's party is doing at this moment and what are the most important points of social pain? However, I am asking for your assessment of this. Have you not crossed your mind to explain to your partymates that this is not the time and place to deal with things that seem to be dealing with the finances of your own party, rather than dealing with the pain problems that are very important to society, which are linked to the crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U7	Thank you for this question. When I said, in answer to the previous question, that I believe that the supervision of party funding can be increased to a new level, even higher, to a higher quality level, I did not say to you in any way that this means that there will be no further scrutiny of political parties, including the Centre Party, in the future. On the contrary, I think that this control will become even more professional, even more efficient. Yeah, you're right, the EJC has made precepts. I don't have any statistics on what kind of private chambers, but I'm sure he's been prescripting my party too. We're guilty, we've paid those fines. And that will continue to be the case in the future. Of course, we will do everything to ensure that the party does not make mistakes again. I hope that your party will do the same. And if so, of course, these penalties must be passed and the fines paid. This does not mean in any way that fines or penalties will not be paid in the future. I understand you're also upset because this bill came out right now. First of all, this is a point one of the drafts initiated by the members of the Riigikogu, the political groups of the Riigikogu. It's not a government bill. I think that it is reasonable for the Riigikogu to be able to deal with it, and it can certainly be improved within the framework of the procedure, and that is also reasonable. I think it also makes sense that the commission responsible for this draft, if I am not mistaken, is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It is certainly very right, in my opinion, to hear what the National Audit Office itself thinks about how it sees this matter, that if this decision is made, what changes should be made to the draft. This is all, in my opinion, a question of the next few weeks or days, I do not know how long this procedure will last, a question of the following procedure. In any case, this must be done very thoroughly. A claim or a complaint that there will be no more fines or no more checks, so there is no point in doing this bill. On the contrary, I think it needs to become even more efficient and professional.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U8	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! This morning, we read from Postimees that farmers have sent another letter to the Minister for Rural Affairs, which makes it clear that 800 hectares have about 2,000 tons of strawberries that need to be harvested, and farmers urgently need help. You have given the clear impression that you ignore the need to use seasonal foreign labour when describing your activities, as well as the activities of other members of the government. None of the solutions that you have proposed have been realised so far and have not been helpful. Please tell me what farmers should do so that the government you manage understands that the harvest cannot remain in the field and that those who have invested in their business should not go to the unemployment fund for the benefit. And how is it possible that, as your Prime Minister, you promised the Minister for Rural Affairs a holiday today, as this letter refers to the moment when the solutions have not actually been found?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U10	Thank you. As a rule, there is such an arrangement in the government that when ministers go on holiday, each minister is responsible for his own field and the Prime Minister signs the statement. I don't know that I would have ever signed a minister's leave, so this is an interesting point of attack you're looking at. But you asked me what had been done. It is being done, as I have also answered you, that it is in the agricultural sector that people have an extended opportunity to work until 31 July. We've been over this with you, I think, three or four times. On the other hand, as I said here a few days ago, it is also important that communication is improved through the Ministry of the Interior and the unemployment fund, so that those people who are working in a sector today are interested in working and are brought together with the agricultural sector and farms as quickly as possible. I think it is also very important that we all make a concerted effort today to improve the epidemiological situation, reduce restrictions, ease and that we can say again at one point that borders are open, normal traffic has been restored, which also means that seasonal workers can come to Estonia and find applications here. But there is also the fourth half, which is certainly not less important, and the last one is that Estonia itself has lost, very many people in Estonia have lost their jobs, the unemployed come every week, and that is a fact. We have an unemployment fund measure today, which has really been very successful and effective, but, as you know, the aim of this measure has been to provide compensation for March, April and May, and then this measure will end. The Unemployment Insurance Fund has discussed this at Council level and proposed a new measure to extend it until June. The question is, under what conditions, and whether additional money from the public sector should be added to it. I very much hope that we will be able to hold these discussions at government level tomorrow. One important nuance is also the number of unemployed people in Estonia in June and the increase in unemployment. I think all these four points are important. It is not that we can only solve this issue with one card or one rod. I don't think any of them give you a full solution. Perhaps, indeed, if the outbreak is everywhere such that the borders can be fully opened, the quickest and most effective solution is. I believe that's what all societies are working for.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U11	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U12	Next, Kaja Kallas asks and is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U13	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! The emergency situation is indeed over for this time, but as has been said, you yourself have said, and different estimates have been made, perhaps there will be another wave. We do know that the fact that we were able to withstand or manage this first wave so well has been the great contribution of the Estonian people, and this line is certainly being maintained so that the second wave does not come or that it does not come so big. However, what interests people and concerns their daily lives is that when the second wave comes, what limitations must be taken into account. After all, you are having some kind of discussion in the government about what these restrictions are. It was just this week that there was news here that maybe in autumn we should be ready to close schools again and switch to distance training. What are the things you say that these things are coming, these are the plans you intend to implement? Entrepreneurs, workers, as well as people who have to study at home with children, need these messages, otherwise they do not know how to take their steps for the future. What have these discussions been, and where have you come from in terms of how to prepare for the next wave?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U14	Thank you. This is certainly a very important and important issue. But I don't think you can tell me what the second wave is gonna be. I have not yet met any of the world's co-workers who could have said this, nor have any doctor, virologist or epidemiologist told me what this other wave is going to be. Of course, it is also a question of which continents and countries and how it will develop. But it is clear that the second wave is priority number one, at least I still have public health. I don't think we're gonna get over it or around it. The public health aspect is the most important and the most important, it is what we must defend and which we must act on first. Now, your question of imposing economic restrictions and closing down certain sectors of the economy and business is, of course, justified. I think the most important lesson for the next time is that all these restrictions should be applied as locally as possible. And I guess even towards the end of this crisis, when the outbreak wasn't that great anymore, we learned certain lessons. You have asked the same question several times, and I have answered you that one important lesson has been that, if possible, the closure will be carried out locally, only at certain addresses. For example, the same example of a dormitory in the city of Tartu, where one building was specifically closed on Raatus Street. The restrictions were imposed only there, not across the city of Tartu. We certainly need to look at the situation geographically, so if there are outbreaks anywhere in the corner of Estonia, this should not mean closing the whole of Estonia. But we really don't know what that second wave might be like when it comes. I think it is undoubtedly important here that the more responsible we act in May and throughout the summer, the better we are ready for the second wave, and the smaller this wave will be. The fact that the infection is still spreading from person to person is very strongly scientifically proven, a major form of spread. This means, however, that major events are banned in Estonia in July and August. It has been said that the maximum number of participants in public events can be a thousand people outdoors in July and August. And, of course, all the other confidence measures we need to be better prepared for worldwide, including in Estonia, than were in spring.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U15	Echo Kallas, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U16	Thank you. I may be based on what you responded to about the restrictions that are still in force after the end of the emergency situation. On what basis have these restrictions been decided to be such, and how do they deal with the clarity of messages? What do I mean by that? In particular, it is emphasised everywhere that a thousand people are allowed, for example for events, but that the rule of 2 + 2 must be complied with. If you open this emergency page, you can see, the 2+2 rule means two people at a time and two meters apart. Does a thousand people mean that there are two-person units that have to be two meters apart, or is it simply impossible to follow? Or, for example, sports: ten people with two metres apart, but the 2+2 rule must be met. Two people together or still ten people together? There's a lot of rules. For example, the fact that you may be in the restaurant until 10:00, but at 10:00, the police will be fined by the people who are in the restaurant and the restaurant manager. Is there any way that the virus will spread more after ten o'clock to shut down the restaurant, or what is the basis for this decision? This brings a certain burden on businesses, especially in the tourism sector, which has already been hit very much by this whole crisis. My question is whether it makes sense to make rules that actually make people cheat on the country make them lie. You call the restaurant, you want to book a table for five people, they ask if you're family, because there's a 2+2 rule, and all these people say yes, they're family. But why make such a rule, and what purpose does it serve? Doesn't it make people act like they're going against rules that maybe aren't reasonable, like they're conflicting?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U17	Thank you very much. You had a lot of questions, I'm starting to come from the beginning. First of all, you said that you were making people cheat on the country. You brought the example of a restaurant that if you call and want to close the table, they'll ask if you're a family, and then people will cheat. Well, I think it's, yeah, a matter of attitude or religion. However, I think that the people of Estonia consider these rules to be important, they trust them, and the state also trusts people. The same private operator also trusts this person. I wouldn't imagine it any other way, for example, that the police would be on the door to see if there were ID cards and passports for one family, etc. I think that's a very reasonable question for the restaurant manager. If I was the restaurant manager, I'd ask the same question. And I expect the answer to be honest. I certainly trust the people of Estonia; I sincerely trust the people of Estonia. In my opinion, this kind of philosophical approach, based on different perspectives, is what you asked for with your question, and what I said. Now, you brought this 2+2 rule and you asked about the concerts. Yeah, you're right that two people at most together. If there is a family, there may be more people together, and there must be a difference of two metres between the next person or group. That is exactly what this means: concerts should be based on this principle: 2 + 2 rules are followed and indoors are filled by a maximum of 50% but no more than 500 people, and 2 + 2 rules and a total of 1,000 people apply outside. You're asking who's controlling it. This is done by the organiser of the event, who carries out the event, he has been given a certain set of rules that he must comply with. The organiser of the event must ensure that this rule is complied with. In the end, the Police and Border Guard Board can always control such rules if they have complaints and calls for non-compliance. You also brought out sports. I imagine you can definitely play sports in the tenth group, which follows the 2+2 rule. It's very nice. You can do gym exercises, running exercises, ball-playing exercises, I don't see any problem here. It is true that certain sports cannot, of course, be practiced in this way to the end, but such general physical preparation can be done very freely. I don't see any problem here. And in the case of a restaurant, I already told you that's what you asked for. Now, this question is perhaps wider, so how long does this rule exist or whether the corona virus comes to visit more after ten o'clock in the evening. No, there is no such scientific approach. But there's definitely this approach that the more we can avoid contact, the less this virus spreads. But at one point these restrictions also need to be removed, such as the 2+2 rule limit and also the restriction of restaurants. And that's what we're discussing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U18	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U19	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Minister! Referring to your last response, experts also have the opinion that if the public space is not allowed to operate under control, the events will move underground and there may be more to these contacts under the floor than if people are allowed to live in a certain type of social life in public space intelligently and politely after ten. But my question is that football matches are allowed, I understand that. Our previous prime ministers, too, stand out with footballism, which is welcome in itself, some prime ministers with basketball, but it is certainly not possible to comply with the 2+2 rule in these games. Looking at your government policy, there are two aspects that have been overlooked. One is the health aspect. Outside players are also known to be involved in sport. And the first part of my question relates to whether in Estonian sport you are recommending only Estonian athletes, including in team games. Do they have to be as prepared as the agricultural sector? And the second part is that if a football game is allowed, you must have noticed how on large strawberry fields the berries are picked up in such a way that strawberry pickers lie on such a plate at certain intervals. It may have a quarter of the football team on it. So what's the difference, why can't strawberry growers get to use this format? This would not endanger health more than maybe this football game, where the number of contacts during the game is actually more than the number of times?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U20	Thank you, good questioner. I understand that the idea you're saying is that events go from public space to underground, after all, you mean there's gonna be such private gatherings, parties, things. I don't mean to say that jubilees are underground events. I certainly do not sign or support such an attitude. Jubilees aren't underground, they're having nice birthdays and jubiles. But really, these are private gatherings and they are not regulated. They're not regulated! But by looking at different friendships and relationships, I have to say that I think that very many of my friends today also come from the fact that very few households do not meet or meet. I think it works very well. There are no such large private parties on private premises, where everyone interacts with each other and there is very little distance between people. Rather, people keep their distance on these birthdays. Unfortunately, I have had a duty to go to the wakes during this difficult time, and it was the same. A distance was kept at the hideout table, and it was immediately evident that fewer people were at the funeral and on the wakes. I believe that such great positive events, such as weddings or jubilees, have, if possible, delayed people and they do so out of their personal sense of responsibility. So, by somehow getting them under the floor and somehow less in accordance with the requirements, as you said, I certainly disagree. I believe that very many private events will also guarantee the possibility of disinfection, and that there will certainly be less exposure, close distance than last spring. But I can't say it's 100%. Now, in your next question, you will bring in a very interesting aspect of sport. You have the ninth question concerning Tartu detour. I'm sure you can redefine it as a sport. I would very much like to respond to you more generally about sport. But I do think that if Estonian clubs wish to succeed in the international arena and if they had the courage to take such courage, they would have the courage to make such budgets, then in addition to Estonia's good young athletes and the best at that point in age, those who have come in from outside have certainly been bought in. That's very reasonable. But now to compare strawberry picking to football, well, that's a pretty tricky nut. We'll take it from here on out.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U21	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U22	Question number three is asked by Lauri Läänemets and answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U23	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! You said on the draft amending the activities of the political party monitoring committee in this very Chamber that the parties and I understood that you have also spoken on this issue and have discussed it in advance. You also said that this draft will bring the supervision of political party funding to a new and higher level. Please explain the most important ideas and content of this draft. How is it possible to remove the possibility of initiating proceedings if possible infringements have been committed more than three years ago • so far research operations can also be carried out in the event of an infringement committed 10 or 20 years ago? And why would the Centre Party, led by you, want to abolish the proposed very effective coercion, the request for interest on late payment?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U24	Thank you for this question. As I said, this draft has been initiated by the Riigikogu, the three political groups of the Riigikogu. This is not a government-led bill. I think this bill must be dealt with very seriously. As I said in reply to the previous question, which was asked by Mr Saar, the proposals of the National Audit Office on how to make this draft even better during the procedure are very well founded. You will come up with such very detailed questions, such as going back for up to three years. I think it's something you can freely discuss, why not? In view of the fact that the Riigikogu cycle is four years and that it should be extended, I think it should be dealt with seriously in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I think that this should be the case. I will stick to my statement that, if you ask what the main objective is, the main objective really is that it is not inconceivable or impossible to bring the issue of the supervision of the funding of political parties under the National Audit Office. And as I said to Mr. Saare, I will not say to you in any other way that the National Audit Office is certainly reliable in my eyes; it is independent; it is autonomous. But we also have to consider that his resource is greater in all respects and his experience is longer. Do not read from this answer that the ERJK is bad or bad, but I think this level should be raised. This discussion has been held, I don't know, in the last two, three, four, five years. It cannot be said that this topic was not discussed so that it could also be under the National Audit Office. So I think this discussion could be held here in the Riigikogu. But once again, the question of financial supervision cannot in any way ease, it cannot become any more blurred. On the contrary, I think that this is a new level, a new quality and must be based on it. What are the specific paragraphs or the retrograde of time? All of this can and should be proposed during the processing process.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U25	Lauri West Forest, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U26	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! I do not think you were aware of the current problems of the Centre Party and the Centre Party, which are under investigation, regarding the presentation of the draft. This is, in my opinion, the most brutally abusive bill for the benefit of power, which has ever been seen in Estonian politics. The draft resolution of the Political Party Finance Commission will cancel all proceedings against the Centre Party and, after the adoption of the Act, will not allow any further investigation. Please explain this to me and to the people of Estonia! As Head of the Centre Party and Prime Minister, do you agree to allow here and now that you will do everything you can to convince the Central Party Group and your coalition partners to withdraw this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U27	Thank you. When three political parties have introduced it, one of the important work tasks of Riigikogu members, Riigikogu political parties and political groups and committees is legislation. Now I don't understand why you're screaming with me. If the Riigikogu wishes to process something, it is the hallmark of a democratic society and I certainly support it. If you say you don't believe me, that's all I can do. Believe it or not, that's your question. As I said, this is not a government-led bill, point one. It is initiated by members of the Riigikogu or political groups of the Riigikogu. And point two, to have a detailed discussion with you about all the paragraphs and points I think this procedure must take place in the Riigikogu. Now, you're somehow just linking this bill to the Centre Party. I told you that the Centre Party has caught its sore rod. I've never denied it, and we've paid the fines. Even in the future, if this happens to one party and perhaps happens, Mr Western Forest, sometimes also so that it is a Social Democratic Party, then its obligations must be fulfilled. That's the way it has to be. Now, your claim that some things kind of fall off. I think that the debates that are up there today must continue. But in terms of the future, for there to be some kind of time limit, I'm sorry, but I remember that the various parties have said that, too, the People's Union has said that some time goes backwards, certain procedures should be limited over the years. We can also find many of these parallels in today's law, where some errors are limited in certain years, i.e. no more going back in time. Whether it is three years or some other number of years, I believe that these debates should be held in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and in this House.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U28	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. I am not going to make a long introduction here and talk about the importance of sports clubs, private interest schools, recreational schools, leisure centres, but I will go straight to the question. During the current week, indoor sports clubs and leisure centres, hobbies and private interest schools could open their doors. However, the rules for exiting emergency situations do not allow many sports clubs to operate with 100% coverage. There are more kids, young people, amateurs in groups than the rules allow. This means that the income of sports clubs and leisure centres may be halved, in some cases down by three quarters. We know there's gonna be a big summer, and the kids are gonna be on vacation. Sports clubs and private interest schools usually do not work at full capacity during the summer. My question is this: is the Government of the Republic planning to develop additional grants for sports clubs, leisure centres, hobbies, private interest schools when preparing the next budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U30	Yes, thank you very much, Honourable Asker. I hope that the Chairman of the Riigikogu and Mr Western Forest will not mind if we move from the subject of the ERJK to the field of sport, but I would certainly like to answer you. I agree that there is a problem. You're asking if we have any budget support for clubs. The answer is that the Riigikogu has provided 15 million euros for private education, private interest schools in today's additional budget. Now that we are talking about sports clubs and trainings, the Riigikogu has allocated 25 million euros to the responsibility of the Minister of Culture, which concerns both the cultural and sports sectors. I agree that there are quite a lot of large private sports clubs in Estonia, be they gyms, aerobics halls, tennis halls, etc. For them, I think the Riigikogu has provided support in the order of 400000 euros, which goes to the Estonian Olympic Committee, who has to make this distribution. At least that's the original plan. In addition, we have supported large shopping centres, where a very large number of sports clubs are also operating today. In any case, I think we have to do everything we can to support sport. If we say '-- or at least I say '-- I don't know if you agree with me or not -- that it is particularly important to protect public health when it comes to the corona crisis, then, as we know, sport and any movement, especially at a young age, are extremely important. This is an extremely important habit designer to follow the "healthy spirit in a healthy body." In any case, I consider it important that clubs are supported in this crisis. This crisis is also for clubs, let's say frankly, a lasting circle of three months, now comes the summer when very many activities are not taking place either way and it has been a difficult economic time. They must be supported and we have already done so. In addition, sports clubs and trainings are also very close to local authorities. Local authorities have been given a separate EUR 30 million crisis aid, which they can in principle also share with sports clubs operating in their territory. I think that all the benefits I have read to you will help to ensure that exercises and clubs can continue their activities in the autumn, but certainly also through summer camps.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U31	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U32	The fourth question is asked by Annely Akkermann and answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U33	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! I would like to ask about tourism measures. Tourism was hit the most because of these restrictions, with turnover falling by 75 to 90% and even by up to 100%. These restrictions are in fact still valid for tourism companies, including hotels, restaurants and spas. Take, for example, restrictions on the sale of alcohol or the requirement to keep a distance of two metres. Have you come up with longer-term measures for the tourism sector for a recovery period of up to two years, and what kind of measures could they be? Could there be, for example, a reduction in VAT on accommodation to 5% or an extension of the support for labour taxes for more than June? Have you considered these issues so that this long-term renewable sector can survive?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U34	Thank you, good Annely Akkermann, for this question. First of all, yes, you are right that the tourism sector has been hit very badly, I fully agree with that. In the EAS Crisis Support Package, EUR 25 million has been allocated to compensate for losses in the tourism sector, and the aim of this support is to help companies in the sector that have been hit hard in the crisis to keep working, to ensure that they can continue to work when the crisis is over. Support is intended for different sectors, including catering, accommodation, tourism, and various attractions. It also provides for insular support, which has in principle been registered separately, both under the tourism measure and under the local authority measure, under the local government investment. It's been important. Now what you asked about tax policy measures, you mentioned, for example, a reduction in VAT on accommodation establishments. In this sense, I agree very much with you that I remember the moment when the VAT paid by the accommodations was raised to 20% again. If I'm not mistaken, it was 2016. At the time, a new coalition came, and we tried to do everything we could to save this sector, and then the VAT on accommodation facilities was reduced to 9%. Your sense is that it needs to be brought down again. Well, I don't know, there are, of course, prescribed rates of VAT differentiation by the European Union. I don't know how many there are. Yesterday, I also spoke to the representatives of the sector; they did not mention this very VAT rate in my opinion. But I think there is a great value already when you and I are together, and I am sure to be your good comrade and combat partner, and we are opposed if someone wants to raise VAT on accommodation facilities to 20% again, as it was 3 to 4 years ago. The sector was very upset about that rise back then. Luckily, it was turned back, and I think it was the right move. So in any case, I support us not to lift it. I'm not denying that there may be any of them, but I don't know at the moment who wants to take it up again. Now, in view of the number of requests for these measures, according to my data, around 1300 applications have already been submitted for the tourism measure and the amount of applications submitted on 17 May was 22,85 million. As you know, there is a total of 25 million in this measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U35	Annely Akkermann, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U36	I wanted to make it clear that it's actually 25 million, I think, already covered by grants today, and I think it's covered too much. That is why the tourism sector is most concerned that the crisis in the tourism sector will certainly not end this month. Do you have a longer plan? And the second question that travel agents have certainly approached you with is that they incurred huge costs to cover additional travel costs for package passengers brought back from abroad early, or paid some packages to hotels and transport companies in advance, but did not get the money back. Customers have now submitted their claims against small travel agencies and these small travel agencies are stuck in a chain of debts between two stones. Is it intended not to leave travel agents responsible for the consequences of the crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U37	Thank you for this question. I will give so many statistics as of today, 20 May, I do not have it, but as of 17 May, I can say that the evaluation of applications is underway and almost 11% of the applications have already reached a decision. This means that, according to my information, in the case of accommodation and catering companies and travel agencies, of the EUR 22.85 million that I have told you before, a decision has been made for an amount of approximately EUR 3.3 million. The number of decisions taken by different accommodation, catering and travel agencies, say, the articles contain a total of 135 pieces. You also asked, on your first question, whether this unemployment fund measure could continue in June. We'll discuss it tomorrow. In my opinion, yes, it could. But I think that these bases need to be changed a little bit, because if we keep doing this in exactly the same form, then it's clear that we need extra money. Even in the event of a change in the foundations that the unemployment fund has now been issued, there is a high probability that there will currently be 40 to 45 million, additional funding will be needed, even if these thresholds are reduced. Now, your question about a long plan and what happens to small travel companies. I really know that certain possibilities have been created so that people do not immediately demand this money back, but a travel company should provide a service of the same value over a certain period of time. But of course, when people say that they want this money today and right back, I think there might be a lot of legal disputes like this. And, worst of all, at one point, it may just be, as you say, that this small travel company has paid off its obligations in advance and that from a distant country, these sums will no longer be recovered from abroad. The question of liquidity arises, which can end very sadly for this company and for the company. So I hope that those who have purchased services from these companies will at least give businesses some time to recover, find the best solutions for their customers and, of course, continue their activities. There is certainly one way for businesses and businesses to ask for these grants is the same tourism measure, which also exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U38	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U39	Thank you. I believe you will admit that the tourism sector is the sector that has been hit the most in the current crisis, and we know that the tourism sector still accounts for 8% of our gross domestic product. Now, the borders are still on a large scale. They have opened up with Latvia and Lithuania, but there are no events, theatres and cinemas do not work normally. My question is how much it makes sense for the tourism sector to be tempted even more with these restrictions. I'll come back to that ten o'clock limit, so if a Latvian wants to come here, for example, but he's wondering what I'm doing here, there's no event going on. The evenings are beautiful, and I'd love to spend some time, but you can't do it in a restaurant after 10:00. Is this restriction reasonable or will it penalise the tourism sector even more and discourage tourists from coming here to help the sector? And another thing, you're stressing this rule of 2 plus 2. I opened a government website saying that the logic of the 2+2 rule is simple: up to two people can move together and the others must be at least two meters apart. If a thousand people are allowed, how can the 2+2 rule be used so that there are still only two people together? Are a thousand people in groups of two people? Does this rule make sense that you insist on it all the time? Is it possible to fill it in real life?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U40	Thank you. Now you call this evil out with this example. For example, me and you want to go to a concert, Jürgen and Toomas also want to go to a concert, then... You don't go to a concert? Well, I don't know, let's say you do. In that case, two people can be together, and the next two people are two metres away from them. That's it. And a thousand people can be together if territory or territory allows it. Now, you're asking, of course, I understand what question you're asking, how to control it, how to monitor it. I understand that this is very difficult, but it is the duty of the organiser of the event to ensure it. On the evening of May 17th, I went to a concert in Ivo Linna, and they even had cars standing there in small spaces. It was beautiful, it was really nice, though I don't think the Song Festival Grounds is good enough for cars, so we need people there. But yes, it is, as you say, really, a thousand people can be together if territory allows it, the area is large enough. In such a case, such events can take place from 1 July. I imagine that, well, I don't know, I haven't measured it, maybe in Viljandi, Kirsimäe, something could be arranged. I don't know if it'll fit in a thousand, but maybe it will. I guess it has to be measured. It's kind of simple math, but yeah, you're right. That's basically the logic. But once again, at one point, I hope we can say that this rule of 2 plus 2 is also down. Today he's not down, today he's valid. Now, you're worried about the Latvians coming here and there's nothing they can do. Well, Latvians don't come to Estonia just because of the restaurant that they're trying to reach Estonia after 10:00 a.m. and then it's great. I'm sure that's not the case. What we were able to do between the three Baltic states is very unique at all, and it shows very good cooperation between Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, very close cooperation, that we were able to create a mini-Schengen here. I guess many countries saw that this was a good example or a good sign that we were able to agree on the opening of borders. With Finland we agreed a day earlier, on 14 May, indeed, there are certain restrictions at the moment and tourism is not allowed. But if you are worried, I don't know, you can go to the islands of Estonia, you can look at the nature of Estonia. There are still a lot of these activities: we have beautiful hiking trails, they can visit their friends. So I'm not saying the Latvians want to come here just to go to a restaurant or a tavern after 10:00. But I agree that in the catering sector this limit of 22 o'clock could go off as soon as possible. You say that this restriction is bullying, I say it is protecting public health. I guess we're in a different position here with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U41	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U42	Question No 5, submitted by Helmen Kütt and answered by Riina Solman, Minister of Population. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U43	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister of Population, My question concerns maintenance aid. The maintenance aid system entered into force three years ago, i.e. in January 2017. Since this regulation is provided for in the Family Benefits Act and the formulation of family policy falls within your area of administration, I wonder whether, in addition to this very important change, that the waiting period for maintenance assistance will be reduced from 4 to 5 months to 1 to 2 months, there will be some further changes that would make this law more flexible. I will also give a concrete example of what the President of the Supreme Court, Villu Kõve, has pointed out. According to him, today there is no flexibility, i.e. the possibility of making exceptions to the law. For example, the court has had to discuss what to do in a situation where a parent who is obliged to pay for a living is in a coma at the hospital for a long time. The state cannot pay child maintenance allowance because there is no court settlement on the basis of which the child's livelihood would have been established, but the child needs to eat every day. This is just one example. Do you, in addition to this, really, as I said, have the very necessary amendment to shorten the time it takes to receive maintenance assistance, to review this law a little more and to come up with amendments that would eliminate these bottlenecks?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U44	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Helmen Hunter! Thank you very much for asking the necessary question. As always, you will have some steel observations that deserve further consideration. Yes, if you look at maintenance aid more widely, this EUR 100 of state aid often does not reach those in need at enough speed. As you have pointed out, we want to amend the Family Benefits Act, to propose an amendment so that this money can go 4 to 5 months forward, so that at least those to whom it is already guaranteed can receive assistance earlier. However, as far as future proposals are concerned more broadly with maintenance assistance, here, yes, I am working with my two good colleagues, Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg and Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiige. We've met on maintenance aid before. As the crisis came between with its package of crisis measures, we have not been able to convene an additional meeting, but it is planned to better design this measure. This is actually the case for bailiffs; they also have problems in accessing maintenance assistance. There too, the legislator is in fact able to make the system more flexible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U45	Helmen Hunter, a question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U46	Thank you so much for keeping this subject out of your sight and thinking about it. Think, then, about this particular example. And when you meet good colleagues, in addition to maintenance assistance, a very important topic is also a livelihood, which has been the subject of a major study. This is indeed more relevant to the administration of the Ministry of Justice. With this decoupling from the percentage of the minimum wage of 50%, the courts are also having problems. But the next question I would like to ask is actually about family mediation. This morning there was an attorney-at-law and family mediation Helen Võo, who has been working as a family mediator for five years. By way of family mediation, I mean, in particular, the resolution of custody, access rights and property issues. It is not that people are being tried to live together again, it is not this that I mean, but the kind of family agreement that happens in many countries before the trial, before the trial. I'm sure it's the best thing for a kid. Unfortunately, this is often the case in court proceedings, but it is also helpful. On the show, Mrs Helen Vääl pointed out that, in fact, family mediation in Estonia is not regulated. This is neither in the family law nor in social services. You have now come up as a crisis measure with advice for families with children, which is EUR 1.76 million. Why don't you give me a little bit of an overview? And with regard to the subject of family mediation, I have this question: Is there any way to regulate family mediation by law? These issues could be discussed, if necessary, with the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for Justice, because very many of these issues, which concern children and family, are in the hands of all three of you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U47	Thank you again, Honourable Helmen Küütt, for the theme setting! This is a necessary subject. Helen's Voice did indeed give an overview of Hellovision today. We, too, have listened to and started to deal with the issue in cooperation with the various associations of family mediators. Now, in times of crisis, the issues that really needed to be changed came up quickly, including family mediation. This field is indeed the most confusing, it requires further analysis, additional meetings and meetings with different parties. This is always about service providers. As Helen's Voice rightly pointed out, this issue is currently poorly regulated. Very many things come to court because of the complicated relationships of the parents, but the aim of the state is to bring family mediation services into such a preventive phase that people do not burden courts but get part of family mediation services earlier. In particular, the development of this financial measure concerns the paid side of family mediation. Today it is subject to a fee for the parties. As far as I know, only Tartu offers it free of charge, Tallinn offers this service free of charge to those in need. But in most cases family mediation services are paid sessions and one consultation procedure, which costs about 60 euros, the price of the service is different, certainly not enough. You usually need five or six counseling. And even if the parents don't agree, the family agreement is already moving on to court. And we know that it is the most harmful to children, it is spiritually nervous to all parties, and it is a source of tension, all the more so since mental health issues have become very acute in times of crisis. We know that the number of problems is increasing, we know it through victim helpline statistics, we know it through statistics from different service providers. Let's get on with it. It is indeed in the working phase at the moment, so I do not have anything to add at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U48	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U49	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. I had a specific question, but I'll put it aside because the previous answers really messed me up. You have been to the Social Committee to introduce a possible measure of EUR 1.76 million, which you are currently designing and discussing, and which is intended for family therapy, in order to improve the relationship between parents and thus ensure that children are better able to cope and progress. Now, when you answered Mrs. Helmen the hunter, you started talking about family mediation. So what are we really talking about? Both are necessary things, but completely separate processes, I have understood so far. Perhaps you could now open up a little bit of what this EUR 1.76 million is in your planning? We've already heard about family mediation, but what about family therapy? Since Mrs Helmen Kütt started her question on the subject of maintenance, or more specifically on the subject of maintenance assistance, I also have a comment that you can answer. In fact, during bankruptcy, maintenance assistance and its legal solutions are they prepared and when could they reach the Riigikogu? This has become particularly important now that we know that people's material coping is in a declining trend, and all the knowledge we have about it will say that unemployment will be in the most difficult situation in a year and poverty in a few years' time and that we will have to look at how families cope.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U50	Dear author Signe Riisalo, Indeed, I'm sorry! Helmen Kütt asked about my point in the Committee on Social Affairs, and since Helen Võo is dealing specifically with family mediation, two issues were committed and I focused more on family mediation. Indeed, this proposal, which I presented in the Committee on Social Affairs, is in a working phase. It has not yet found support from all the parties needed, so it is difficult for me to comment on it in greater detail. But this measure is indeed intended to provide additional financial support to family therapists so that the state can help families and children in distress, people with mental health problems. That's the measure. Yeah, really, you're right, these two things are separate things. And now, as far as the maintenance aid at the time of bankruptcy is concerned, this very painful issue must once again be referred to the Minister of Justice. But as I said, we're about to start a tripartite meeting, where we're actually putting these things on the table, so you can send us questions, even directly to me. I'm sure I'll take care of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U51	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U52	Next question No 6, this is submitted by Toomas Kivimägi and answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! My question concerns turbulence in aviation, not what we can feel in the air, but in the transferred sense, man-made. I am, in fact, very concerned about the very opposite policy that can be seen in the aviation strategy. I believe you also remember the time when people dreamed of Hub and spent tens of millions of euros on it. You will remember the times when it was said that direct flights to the European metropolis were the most important things, but then a 180-degree turn was made and it was said that outsourcing was important. Now, once again, Europe's direct connections have been targeted and 30 million are being burned on land without any aircraft taking off, while we know that the airlines are actually more hungry than ever for flying today. But the motive for my question is, in fact, the order given by Minister Asa on Sunday to ban flights to Denmark, the United Kingdom, Spain, Sweden and many other countries. And so that you do not blame the opposition for the maliciousness of this question, I refer to today's article by Mr Henrik Hololei of Postimees, who has commented in a similar way on this decree, that it is a bit bizarre that Estonia will decide to introduce air languages when everyone is opening borders. It points out that in the last 30 days, no European Union country has approached the European Commission with such a request. My question is, did we miss something? More importantly, is there really a need for such a decree? I admit that its aim is to protect health, but it is perfectly fulfilled by the same two-week quarantine obligation that applies regardless of where someone comes from. In fact, all the risks have been mitigated. And now we have given such a message that you do not fly to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U54	Thank you, Mr. Stone Mountain. At first, I thought if you asked about aviation, as usual, you would have this Pärnu airport theme on your heart and soul. I thought you'd ask when tourists can travel to Pärnu, then go to the spas, play golf, Pärnu Beach, Old Town. But you're asking a lot more globally, and you're talking, I understand, about Tallinn's directions and connections. Well, let's do it. Yeah, what you said you felt that way, that's true. Of course, this is the same epidemiological situation in other countries. We have to follow it, I think it's important. Now that you're saying that the others are going to open and we're going to close, I don't think that's really the way it is. The question is perhaps that not everyone has made these notifications. But I took out the data just this week, at the moment we should have nine regular routes: Finnair, Amsterdam Air Baltic, Riga Air Baltic, Frankfurt Lufthansa, Copenhagen Air Baltic, Oslo Air Baltic, Minsk currently flying to Belavia, Kuressaare and Kärdla in Transavia. Yes, of course, it is also our wish to open air routes with as many as possible, but, as I said, we must monitor the epidemiological situation in other countries. That's actually the base. It is very nice to have agreed on such a criterion for boarding flights. It tells us what the cumulative rate of infection may be per 100000 inhabitants per two weeks, and it indicates that a maximum of 25 people per 100000 inhabitants may be ill within 14 days. It is now important to look at and take into account in advance that both the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure and the Minister for Social Affairs have been communicating with their counterparts and trying to find a common angle at which we can allow flights to be opened from different destinations. And really, our positive message is that every day, this picture gets better, better, better, and we can open more and more flights. As you will remember, at the end of last week there was, in my opinion, a little debate about Copenhagen, for example. Today, as I said, the flights are on and everything is fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U55	Toomas Kivimägi, more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! However, I ask you to answer this question as to whether it was necessary to issue such a decree at all. Let me give you a simple example. We refuse to fly between Stockholm and Tallinn, while flights from Stockholm through Helsinki or Frankfurt can come to Estonia at peace. Why do that? Once again, if there is a two-week quarantine requirement, it will mitigate all risks. Of course, the requirement for two weeks of quarantine does not open up any kind of tourism, but at least we do not have to do any administrative order or ban to ban anything from anyone. All the more so because such an order is actually a bit of a protectionist taste. What was the story like? Air Baltic announced on Friday that it wanted to fly, including to Copenhagen, and only then was the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications woke up and only on Sunday a decision was made to ban flights to Copenhagen. This gives the impression of protectionist behaviour. And it is clear that, as protectionism spreads, small countries first and foremost lose, so in my opinion, we should not really give out such messages in any way. The second question concerns the same Belarus Minsk, to which you referred. It is criminal that flying there has been allowed for the entire period of emergency, and it is still allowed to fly there today. We say Stockholm is not allowed, but Minsk is allowed. As to how these things are organized in this country, Postman's journalist, Mr. Poom, quite spicyly said that we allow flying to a country whose driver treats the virus with vodka and parade. And that is actually the case when we look at the reliability of the data that is being applied in one country or another. Journalist Raimo Poom used such a spicy expression. And now we have said 'no' to Sweden and the United Kingdom and we will say 'yes' to Belarus today. This is, in my view, a completely unacceptable risk and a very bad message that we are giving to our partners in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U57	Thank you, Mr. Stone Mountain. Now I think you blew up this briefing surprise bomb. If that's true, of course, I wish Raimo Poom strength at Postman. As far as I know, he works in the Estonian Päevaleht and Delfi, but you said in Postimees. If that's the case, power him! He's a good journalist, and the journalists are still moving. But now, yes, we're coming to Minsk. Minsk flight. The flight function has been very different throughout this crisis. It has been that this side of the world has been helped, for example through Minsk, to return to our homeland, Estonia. It has actually worked exactly that way. I think it's three or four times a week, really busy. Now, this Minsk flight should, in any case, continue to take place today. You said he's still flying today, I think he'll be flying for a few more days, maybe 24-25. May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, Yes, I know this debate, you brought it back into Copenhagen. It was at the end of last week. As I said, the epidemiological situation in each country is getting better and better in days, and these restrictions will be lifted immediately. Protectionism of protectionism is not a word here. I can tell you with absolutely great conviction and one hundred percent certainty, because this has been primarily a matter of protecting against the spread of the virus. If the spread of the virus in the countries subsides, we will open new routes. Estonia is not unique here in any way, who behaves in this way. The entire aviation industry has stood in Europe. By the way, I will not point the finger that was asked of our neighbouring countries and they did not allow it, they came to Estonia to ask for it in Tallinn. Clearly, airlines want to open their flights, and there's nothing wrong with that, that's good. We also support it spiritually and fundamentally, and the sooner we can do it, the better. Now, yes, we actually managed to get a lot of our people home through Minsk, and here we have to say thank you to this company as well. But you are saying that this dispute I have also held that if we have a 14-day quarantine requirement and we actually have a requirement that we do not get into the Estonian state at all from many other countries, then why do we restrict flights? Why are we doing this? The logic should be that if I'm an airline manager or CEO, I just don't fly there. Why am I taking my people there? But there are also claims that theoretically the plane could really land here and people would come down. Then the question arises as to whose problem this is, is this the problem of the Estonian state or the problem of this airline? But in the end, there's no point in taking people back and forth. It makes sense to say that today we can't fly, tomorrow we'll look again and as soon as we can, we'll open these lines. So actually, jokes, but essentially, I think we're on the same line, the sooner we open up, the better.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U58	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U59	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! However, I would like an answer to the question posed by Toomas Kivimägi, but to which no answer came. You probably agree with me that any limitation will be useful if it works in real life. You have limited some direct flights from Tallinn, but as Toomas Kivimägi said and as the manager of Tallinn Airport has said, it is still possible to fly to and from these countries to Estonia by connecting. What is the point of such a restriction in such a situation? It shows us in a very strange light, I think. Please explain why this restriction works or how it actually works. And second of all, I'd like to hear what the plan is when we're talking about re-opening flights and the airport. What measures is the government planning to restore as much air traffic as possible when we emerge from this crisis? That's two questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U60	Thank you. I dare say I agree with you on the statement you made, Mr Sutt. There's no question. Yes, let's say that this example, I understand, is that there is a 14-day quarantine, people from many countries cannot come in if they are not diplomats, for example, if their course is not professional, if it is not trade-related, etc. Your argument is that if Estonia can actually go to these countries, why do we prohibit this direct flight? I understand that's the argument. The answer is that we have never forbade to leave Estonia. Now, I don't like these few direct flight restrictions either, there's nothing nice about them, there's nothing positive about them. On the contrary, I wish there were more flights. When we look at summer 2019, Tallinn was able to fly to 36 destinations, 28 of which were year-round and 8 summers. You could say that today is three boldly, if not four times smaller. This will certainly reduce the rate of disease coming from places where the disease is more present today, where there is more virus today. But to take it completely to zero? You say there are other roads, yes, of course there are other roads, but it's certainly not as operational, it's not a direct flight, it's not that comfortable and it's definitely used less in this case. But it's not a 100% barrier. You want black and white answers right now, you know, there aren't always black and white answers in the financial world, there's a color gamma like that. It's the same here. This would assume that we would lock Estonia completely and then we could say that you see none, I don't know, coming from the Latvian. But that is not our wish, it is our wish to open today. I also think that what Kaja Kallas has raised here is to open up different sectors as soon as possible, if the epidemiological situation allows it to do so, and we are in favour of it in any case with two hands. As early as tomorrow, we will be reviewing the various restrictions again, so that there may be some faster steps to be taken here. In my opinion, that is the direction to be taken in any case. So these are perhaps my answers to you, Mr Sutt, on these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U61	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U62	Question No 7 will be asked by Ivari Padar and answered by the Minister of the Environment Rene Kokk. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U63	Thank you. Mr Minister for the Environment, and today also acting Minister for Rural Affairs, as I understand it! A modernised proverb says that chicks are read in autumn and strawberries on Midsummer Day. I don't want to ask you about gardeners today, more like wild strawberries. We have all realized that this very lively debate on environmental issues, which was before the corona crisis, has stifled in some way today. One of these discussions in this case, at least here in the Riigikogu, seems to be the development plan for Estonian forestry in 2030. As I read on the website of the Ministry of the Environment, this development plan was actually to be here with us in the Riigikogu as early as May 2020. Can you explain how far the development plan is now and when it will reach the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U64	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable questioner! Yes, it is true that the forestry development process is slowing down. Speaking about its history, yes, the process of drawing up this development plan as a whole has, I dare say, been one of the processes with the greatest involvement in Estonia. There is such a saying that the classics have said that we wanted the best, but it turned out as usual. I do not want to say quite that, but the truth is that this whole process has been carried out under the auspices of a very high degree of involvement, and there was enough time, but today we have reached a situation where we have found a strategic environmental impact assessor for a failed forestry development plan on three occasions. With regard to the first two, it could be said that it was not foreseen that the timetable could become such or different. I have to admit that I really didn't see it coming because in the first two cases, there was enough time, even if it failed, so that it could have been worked out on schedule and moved on. Today we are in a situation where we really are moving on a schedule according to which the impact assessment should be completed and probably reach the Riigikogu in the spring of 2022. The negotiations are ongoing with both the Environmental Impact Assessments Association and its MAK Steering Group. Solutions are being sought. And really, the first time we had this call for tenders, they were actually getting to the point where the evaluator would be found, but in the end, no agreement was reached on some degree of inflexibility. In the second case, too, we had the knowledge that the environmental impact assessment would be found and that it would come. There was eight months left, they thought they were going to do it and get there. By now, the last, third time that failed, came to realize that this process was unexpectedly drawn from the eight months we were aware of, to a length of 16 or 18 months. Today we are starting to separate the impact assessment, so the programme is separate and the report is separate. This is a very sensitive issue, and the impact assessors are also one aspect of why this work is not much wanted to be taken, pointing out that the pressure of society is very strong. That's why there's not much of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U65	Ivari Padar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U66	Am I right to understand that one evaluation has actually been carried out and the evaluation has been carried out by the Institute of Sustainable Estonia? Why did this assessment not count? That's one question. And the second question is, if I may abuse time, that this year, MFF issues and, for example, Natura payments in the rural development plan will certainly come up. In this case, is Natura payments planned to be transferred from the rural development plan to the budget of the Ministry of the Environment?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U67	Thank you. Yes, the Stockholm Estonian Institute was one who provided input to MAK, but it was not a strategic evaluator. In this sense, the forestry development plan has not had a strategic valuer. He was one of the input providers. And SEI, or Stockholm Estonian Institute, was one of the potential first environmental impact assessment providers. The first tender was carried out by the State Chancellery, but it did not reach the procurement in the end. So the answer to this first question is, yes, SEI was a potential candidate in the first tender, but it was not completed. This second question, please repeat what it was, on the issue of money.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U68	Ivar Padar, please, mike!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U69	I'm sure this will be a very big debate. This is the new MFF, or new EU money, and there is also the rural development programme money inside it. Throughout the last two periods, the payment of forestry Natura payments has taken place under the rural development plan, which simply has a bad history. I have always been of the opinion that it should be in the Ministry of the Environment's budget. In this case, are you planning, when the new financial period is discussed, to move this forestry development plan money, forestry Natura money from the rural development plan to the budget of the Ministry of the Environment?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U70	Thank you. It hasn't been on my desk lately. It has not been a matter of turning this into a matter at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U71	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U72	Mr. Chef! I have to admit, you're a mysterious piece of work. Several people have rightly said about you that, given your political background, you are surprisingly reasonable. The latest news about you was also very positive when you responded to the silly letter from the Minister for Finance about quota trade and the system very honestly, in writing, and it also arrived on the news. Thank you for that! But if you've ever played here before, it's like there's some kind of crater on it, and you're not gonna make it to the very end if you ask questions. Since I have not had this opportunity before, I ask you this: do you think that man-made climate change is happening or is it debatable?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U73	Thank you. Pure classic, that's what I've been asked before. And in the meantime, I haven't really changed anything about answering. I have said that yes, a person certainly has a role to play in climate change. If we look out the window, as I have said before, in the big picture we see a lot of cars that drive every day, we see fewer planes flying now, too, and we see stacks of industrial buildings, so surely man is having an impact on the climate. And given how many people have come to the earth in the last hundred years, we are almost 8 billion miles away, then surely the human being has a role to play in climate change.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U74	Please, Mr. Ligi, don't shout about it! Did the minister finish his answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U75	Yeah, I'm done. I said people have a role to play in this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U76	Thank you. In that case, I will stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U77	Question 8, asks Aivar Sõerd and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U78	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! My question is, to some extent, motivated by the audit of the National Audit Office concerning the monitoring of expenditure related to the state budget. The National Audit Office audited the budget for 2018. I would remind you that last year, after the Riigikogu elections, the government suddenly discovered that the deficit in 2018 had proved to be greater than previously planned. The National Audit Office's conclusion was that the monitoring of expenditure was incomplete during the financial year, which creates the risk that the deficit will be noticed only when it has already increased. You have commented on this, too, then. In 2018, the main problem was that alcohol duty was low. But now, a year later, in April of this year, it turned out, unexpectedly, that with the previous 2019 budget, it was as bad as it was, or even worse. Because, as I understand it, the government was obliged by law to reduce the deficit to 0.5% of GDP, or 1.2%. But what we just found out in April was a deficit of 1.9%. You came here to present the budget, you said that the government would improve the budgetary position by 0.5%. You set the bar low, but you ran it down. So what happened in 2019? Tax revenue was very well received, even in advance, because excise duties on fuel were paid in advance, and economic growth was also higher than planned. What happened?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U79	Yes, thank you very much. First of all, I would like to say this, Mr Aivar, that I am pleased that we are once again able to hold a debate on finances, which has always been very educational and interesting for me, but also very emotional. I think this passion is always important and important. Now, first of all, from 2018. Yeah, we've talked about this a lot. I am pleased that you confirmed, or at least reiterated, my words, indeed, I learned about the structural deterioration of the budgetary balance in 2018 in April 2019. Now for the deficit of 2018. Certainly, Estonia's public finances are, as we speak, on a broader, solid basis. This is actually acknowledged by the National Audit Office in its comprehensive review. The 2018 budget was planned with a deficit, but it was in line with the revised budget strategy and aimed specifically at stimulating growth. As you will remember, we have been working hard here for the last three years to stimulate growth, bearing in mind what it was before 2016 and also in its first half. By the way, today, you weren't in the hall, came up with the VAT on the accommodations again. We have an ally here, Annely Akkermann, who also does not want to raise VAT on accommodation. This is, in my opinion, a very positive message. I also wanted to inform you of this interesting and important information. However, in 2018 there was no real conscious overspending in the government. Economic growth was faster than expected. You are quite right to say that the revenue from tax revenues remained modest, and very rightly you said that, above all, excise duties. That's right. Economic growth was faster. This meant that there should have been tax receipts and receipts in relation to excise duties in parallel, but this did not happen so quickly. And what does the National Audit Office say? He says this, and I fully agree with it, that much more operational information is needed on the revenue flow to the Treasury and on the actual expenditure of the state budget. I think it's important. It's actually a problem today that the delay time is too long, we're getting this information too late. This, by the way, was also said by the Budget Council in its review that the Budget Council, the Ministry of Finance, the Riigikogu and the authorities need to improve the exchange of information in order to understand more quickly the problem of budgeting. It is in structural terms that we are talking about budgeting, you know very well that budgetary policy management is based on structural positions, not nominal ones, according to budgetary rules. So there really is a problem here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U80	Aivar Sõerd, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U81	You didn't answer my question, but I really want to get information from the Prime Minister. You're better informed than we are here. We do not know, we do not have any information about what happened last year, that the bar that was set so low was also cut off, while tax revenues were collected well and the economy grew. But now we come from last year to this year. The first quarter is now known and the deficit has increased to 1.7%, with a deficit of EUR 438 million. Tax revenues started to decline in March, with a fall in tax revenues of 120 million. But 210..220 million is the impact of the state budget. This crisis was not yet in the first quarter, it only arrived at the end of March. I'm gonna ask you for information again, you're gonna master it, you're gonna tell us. This year, a considerable amount of debt will be taken, some 1 billion have already been taken, and the next loan will be made in June. How do you monitor these costs and where does the money go? It's a question. The additional budget measures have not been implemented in full as far as KredEx and MES are concerned. I mean, the MES and KredEx haven't even exactly been paid out yet. What is the reason why this minus is so big in the first quarter and where is this loan going? Do you dare admit that only part of this loan money goes to the crisis for measures and additional budget measures, and most goes to cover an increased budget deficit? And do you acknowledge that a significant part of the loan is also going to be paid by officials?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U82	Thank you. I'll be honest with you, the debate with you is very interesting. I have already said the basic principle that applies to 2018. In addition, I would say that you yourself know about the use of the state budget. But you wanted information, I will answer you: the annual report of the state is prepared, audited by the National Audit Office, and confirmed by the Riigikogu. This report did not reveal any unintended use of the money. Now, you jump here between three years and hop-hop-hop. I'm trying to come to 2020. Well, you know that the input here has been quite different with regard to what happened. You say that there was no crisis in March. Mr Sõerd, the emergency came into effect on 12 March. Let us be honest that very quickly, after all, very many businesses went to prison, consumption decreased. You're asking where that money goes. That's the right question, where does it go? First of all, let's say it's about investments. I'm sure it's important. It is also important to keep up the costs of a certain country, which we have to pay out when there is a tax gap, and this year the tax gap will be very strong. You tell me so affectionately that I know a lot of information, but I think you, as former Minister of Finance and Tax Officer, know this information very well yourself. We need to keep different tax lines, the criteria are up today, and that's where the money goes. There's money to support local governments. I have KredEx's actions ahead of me right now. Three different measures went to KredEx: surety, 500 million revolving loans and then 50 million more loans for new projects, precisely to stimulate the economy as quickly as possible. Here, for example, there is the amount of guarantee requested when we are talking about guarantees, which is EUR 41 million. The loan requested amounts to EUR 283 million. Yeah, contracts are made for other sums, but I'm talking about what's in these applications right now. The total guarantees and loans currently amount to 360 million, this is the current state of the economy, the 18th of May. There are also EAS measures: accommodation, tourism, travel agencies, attractions, tourism measures. There are also large sums of money that are being requested. As I said to Annely Akkermann, applications have been submitted for more than 22 million, almost 23 million euros. At the same time, entrepreneurs, Mr Sõerd, are just saying that the state must grant loans, must behave contrary to the market situation, it is right now that money must be directed towards investments, whether it be roads or buildings, such as the last mile of construction or apartment buildings. That is where the money is now mainly directed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U83	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U84	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! The assessment of the National Audit Office has actually been devastating, and I think you set the bar in your reply that you have not deliberately overspent, to the ultimate. Unknowingly overexploited is just as bad. This report gives the impression that the Government of the Republic, starting with the Prime Minister, does not really have an overview of how revenue and expenditure are distributed in public finances. At least there's no regular review. The National Audit Office has identified nine risks, two of which, in my opinion, are particularly eloquent. One of them, Risk No 3, shows this or indicates that the external assessment of the financial forecast is low compared to the macroeconomic forecast, i.e. the Ministry of Finance relies in principle only on its own internal analysis. I think it should be much wider. However, risk No 7 is even more important, which says that the current use of state budget money, i.e. expenditure, is not essentially monitored or analysed. How can such a thing be possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U85	Thank you. You know that I have really been a very strong supporter of Estonian officials and authorities, and I continue to do so. Now, your saying that you should look at the wider picture, not just at the Ministry of Finance, is not wrong. At the same time, the state must rely on something at some point. And really, it's been a forecast by the Ministry of Finance, or it's a summer forecast. You're saying we need to improve the exchange of information. That is what I agree with, and that is what I said to Mr Sõerdi. This is pointed out by the National Audit Office, which was pointed out by the Fiscal Council, but this is also pointed out today by the Ministry of Finance that this structural position we will not find out. Same 2018 versus April 2019. Of course, it would have been much better if we had been able to find out the structural position as early as possible in the beginning of 2019, not to mention November or December 2018. I remember that there was a debate at the time, during which the Ministry of Finance said that everything is well now and, if possible, more investments must be made during this year. That's what he said back then, in the fall. It turned out that investments were also overexploited. Yes, it cannot be said that only excise duty on alcohol fell below economic growth at the time. Let's say the economy was growing and the excise duty on alcohol had to be collected faster, but it didn't. In fact, in 2018, there were certain costs that the State had to pay out anyway and which were higher. I remember that, for example, the parental benefit had to be paid more, the pensions had to be paid more, the estimated costs, which in any case had to be paid. But, Mr Sutt, in this sense, I agree with you when you say that this system needs to be made more operational, faster, so that these "threatlights" start burning earlier than a three-month reference or, in fact, even at the beginning of the fourth month. I agree with that. If you have any good ideas, please let me know. I'm sure we'll take them aboard. You have good ideas, I agree with that. But the problem is in here, everyone's been referring to it, and no one's denying it. But I'm not gonna tell you that everything that's been done for 17 years isn't gonna make it better in a day. But actually, let's take the policy out of here for a second. Of course, this thing needs to be improved, and I think we can do it together.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U86	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U87	Question 9, asks Urmas Kruuse and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U88	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Minister! When you became Prime Minister, you promised to work hard with the opposition. If you had worked hard with the opposition, we should not have read such a negative audit of the state budget today because we have been able to warn several times in this Chamber that the government is actually overspenting. You could have made better decisions without the alleged theoretical statistics, but when it comes to spending, this government had a sense of dislocation. In your previous reply to me, you were relatively upset that I was comparing strawberry cultivation to football, and you said that you had to work hard to do it. These examples have not come from my exertion here, but from your actions and from this logic. You have defended your 2+2 principle dozens of times in this Chamber today, and the point of this question was that if contact football was allowed, in terms of health care, you could also allow strawberry picking, even in the example of this 2+2 rule. But what really worried me was that if we open spas and hotels, but don't let restaurants or cafes operate at night, the opening of spas and hotels alone will be of no use and there will be more money to pay. But now from the bypasses of Tartu. I actually want a specific answer to the question relating to them. During discussions here some time ago, it was said that the construction of the southern circle was postponed, out of the horizon of this government. I mean, the time when there's gonna be another election. Since you have defended the possibility of investing in infrastructure objects, do you now produce an investment in the southern circle of Tartu for an earlier period and do not leave it in 2024? This is the most dangerous circle in the Republic of Estonia, at least according to the statistics I have read.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U89	Mr. Kruuse, I'm not mad at you, as you said. It really isn't. On the contrary, I think very many of your concerns have been resolved in the last 3.5 years. We have discussed the topic of the Estonian University of Life Sciences with you here to get more money there, this issue has been resolved, as you know, this veterinary issue, the issue of horses. The top-up question that you've had on your soul has also come up with a solution. I think we've been talking to you about bee families, hives support. Many things, in my opinion, have been born together. I don't know why you're attacking this 2+2 principle. I don't understand it. Yeah, the weather's nice and warm, and the outbreak has subsided today. It's so human, so human to say, that now everything is back to the way it was before. But it's not! Everyone says that as long as there's no vaccine or drug, we can't go back to normal. We need some distance. This is mainly a human-to-human disease, which has been identified. And that's why the 2 plus 2 rule is set. I don't think there's any reason to be upset about that. I understand you all want to let go again, but somebody has to say, you can't let everything go yet. If you let it all go free, the infection sequence will go up very quickly again. It's going up very fast! I think that the desire to be popular and to say that we are going to open everything up again, I want to open everything up, but I think we still have some restrictions for a while. I'm not saying that the rule of 2+2 should apply until the end of time, but right now you have to keep your distance. You're worried about the spas. I think the Spas will be opened on 1 June, and they have been rather happy about it. Yeah, there's a 50% load limit, but I think the message is very specific. I understand you're worried about these spas and restaurants, especially when it comes to the sale of alcohol. It seems to me that it is. We are also trying to resolve these issues. And now your main question, what you wanted to ask me, but you asked me about so many other things. I felt emotion, too. I don't want you to feel that someone's mad at you. The Tartu detour, the southern circle you talked about, yes, at the moment it is really in the road-housing plan, as you rightly said, I think 2024 2025. But we have decided to revisit all the projects so that, should the economic downturn occur even more, even more investment by the state could be placed on the market. If it is a question of whether this project can be brought forward, then it must also be reviewed in particular in the context of the state budget and the national budget strategy. Right now, it's really planned for 2024, as you said.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U90	Urmas Kruuse, the question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U91	Thank you. We are not actually attacking the 2+2 rule, but the selective logic that the Prime Minister has developed with his orders or statements. And a reference to the fact that if there are 20 people in the football field without 2+2 rules, I would say that strawberry pickers of the same size can also fit in the strawberry field according to the 2+2 rule. This shows that the 2+2 principle is not part of the strategy, and it does not work. The same is true of ordering a table in a restaurant. You understand that very well yourself. If, on the one hand, you say that families go close together and trust each other, then I dare say that the trust of people who set up a table in a restaurant, for example, for six people, two of whom are family acquaintances, is just as great as those who meet at home. In other words, that is why restaurants should not be closed. And after 10:00, you don't always have to buy alcohol, you can just sit outside. But now I will continue my question and give the following example. The concern has been that the southern circle was a project that was actually ready and could go into construction, but the government itself pushed it into the distant future. Now, through the press, there was a second awareness that the northern project would not fit into the plan, even until 2030. I want to ask you what concern you have with this Tartu and the Tartu people, that such important objects are so much delayed. And since you signalled here from the end of the mocha that you were willing to consider moving the construction of the southern circle forward, which would be a perfectly reasonable approach, but preferably not half a month before the elections, but even earlier, is there any hope for the northern circle to get to the plan? This would be a logical follow-up to the whole of Tartu's detour, which will benefit all South Estonians.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U92	Thank you. I understand that now you have football in your teeth, and you want to start following the 2+2 rule. No football can't play 2+2 by following the rule. The same Premium league be it now, starts, players can beat the quail in both trainings and competitions. You say that 2 + 2 rules are given different messages and that it doesn't work until the end. I'm sorry, honourable Riigikogu, but in this Chamber, too, 2 + 2 rules are not followed to the end. You see, Mr. Randpere and Mr. Laane are definitely sitting closer to each other than two meters. Well, of course, they can sit together, just the two of them, if they're punctual. But it's clear that there are, of course, some differences. With this rule, too, it was said at the time that if it was not possible to follow it, it could be. But in general, these requirements have been met. To be honest, if you want a black and white solution, the 2+2 rule should apply everywhere, and we should basically end this football league. I saw some people watching a football match with great interest yesterday. To say today that we are canceling football, but I do not support it, I do not support it, I do not support it. We'll come back to Tartu. In fact, you want to ask this question directly, what are you going to do here, that because the Centre Party is not in power in Tartu, is that why investments are not being made there? That's a lie, that's a false claim, there's no basis for it. Of course, Tartu is an important city, Tartu is an expensive city for me, but it is expensive and Tartu must be supported, in any case it must be supported. Many businesses have said today that they need a specific message as to whether the state will invest more in the market when there is a recession. This is particularly true of the construction sector, which is still very afraid. In the autumn and winter of this year, very many large construction companies are very concerned. And this is what the Riigikogu did in fact, in the case of local government investments, road investments, investments in apartment buildings, demolition investments. Everything I've read now is over 200 million. Now, in order to do more, just make sure that we do not have a recession and we say that we do not have any projects. It was also the idea of last Thursday's cabinet decision, that we really have these projects ready and that we can channel them into construction procurement as soon as possible. And the road safety that you've pushed into here is the same position as you. In any case, during the debate on the state budget and the state budget strategy, we will also review the items you mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U93	Thank you. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U94	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! First of all, I'm gonna help you and Urmas Kruuse with this football theme, it's found different solutions in the world. In Denmark, for example, there is a rule that football must not be played with your head and there must not be any physical contact, which sounds a little crazy. But you have never been able to impose this 2+2 rule in the Riigikogu, because the executive power cannot command the legislative power. That's right! But I also have a question, and this is not really about Tartu's detour, but about masks. George, you've been walking around for three months saying masks are a social norm, but now you're the third day without a mask. I'm not saying it doesn't suit you, in itself you're one of those people, and there's not a few of them that look even better without a mask than with a mask. So it's okay. I want to know whether wearing a mask is now a social norm or not and whether this social norm expired with the end of the emergency situation or whether the masks ran out. What's the matter? How am I supposed to behave?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U95	Thank you, Valdo, for this beautiful compliment. Thank you very much. Really, it's cute! I also say that the gates hit by the head are always very effective. I can't imagine playing football and not score with your head. Really, they're always very effective. Especially when they're coming from a corner kick, and there's a high jump and a head shot in that corner, very effective! So I, too, do not support the distinction that can't be played with my head, in the case of football. By the way, football is a very interesting story. This year, the football hall should rise to four places in Estonia, including Tartu. I think it is very positive, it is cooperation between the city of Tartu and the state. Now the masks. I think you're gonna ask why I'm not wearing a mask in this briefing, even though I've been before. This is because the emergency situation has ended and the epidemiological situation has improved. I appreciate that all members of the Riigikogu are very responsible and do not come to work sick, just as no one else should go to work sick, school, kindergarten. That's one. Second, you're asking if the mask is a social norm for me. I say yes, the mask continues to be a social norm for me when I go to a mall, a grocery store, for example. That's where I put the mask on. I don't know if you asked me how long it's gonna be like that. In any case, I'm sure I'll be wearing it for a while. So, yeah, if there's more people in the room or the probability of close contact is very high, I'm wearing the mask. I suggest, good Valdo, you wear it too, because the mask would rather scare the corona than call it in.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U96	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U97	I ask the questioner Katri Raig to do it very quickly, because we must also have time for a hall call, and I would also ask the Prime Minister, to whom the question is addressed, to respond very quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U98	Prime Minister! Since I don't know what to ask about football, I have to ask about the supervision of party funding. Good Prime Minister, you are associated with the birth of the Corruption-Free Centre Party. Please, tell me if I have understood correctly today that you are in favour of this approach, that the current requirements, including those against the Centre Party, are being discussed by the Commission until the end, are being dealt with in accordance with the current procedures and are not ageing. Let me get this straight. That was your idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U99	Thank you. I cannot imagine that if this task now falls under the National Audit Office, we will say that these requirements, which are pending, fall somehow between the two chairs. Of course, they need to be processed. [[A voice from the hall.]] I think that if the National Audit Office takes over and if the Riigikogu so wishes and the ERJK is no longer working at that time, then the National Audit Office must continue to process it. Absolutely!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U100	Thank you. I thank my good colleagues for their questions. I thank all the ministers for their answers. Unfortunately, time is up and our Question Time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U101	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday 15th working week. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to pass on drafts and enquiries? Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U102	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I am passing on the law supplementing the law on the organisation of research and development. This is somewhat unprecedented, because we handed over the same document in substance already in October, but it happened as always with the drafts submitted by the opposition: it does not go beyond the first reading. Of course, we are talking about allocating 1% of GDP to research funding. This isn't going anywhere. This issue needs to be discussed further, especially after the crisis, when we all understand the importance of medicine. Entrepreneurship is also only developing with the support of research and innovation. All of us understand that national sciences are also important. So I'm handing over a similar bill so that the research money will be 1% of GDP in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U103	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Last Thursday, we were briefing Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration, with members of the Reform Party. This week we received a reply from the President of the Riigikogu, where he indicates that according to § 139 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act, an inquiry is a question to the Government of the Republic or its members concerning the implementation of the laws governing its authority. The chairman pointed out that an inquiry would not meet this requirement, and he sent us back this enquiry. Now, let's ask this question again. We have substantially specified the preamble where we will lead the President of the Riigikogu to the right path, i.e. to show how this inquiry relates to the activities of the Minister. We refer, among other things, to the question of whether the Minister for Public Administration has legitimately and properly carried out the tasks assigned to him by law, including the organisation of the Head of State for the Emergency Situation 20.03.20, which has imposed on the Minister for Public Administration the obligation to coordinate the provision of disinfectants, personal protective equipment for bodies outside the health system and the social welfare system. We also want an explanation of compliance with the public procurement law in our inquiry. We are talking about procurements organised for the procurement of personal protective equipment, carried out by the State Support Services Centre, which is under the authority of the Minister of Public Administration, who must comply with the Public Procurement Act in the performance of their duties, but whose improper performance is justified on the part of members of the Riigikogu, which we want to answer by asking for an answer. Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! We ask not to prevent the members of the Riigikogu from providing information by the government and to forward our enquiry to the Minister of State Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U105	Thank you. There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and one inquiry. The Management Board of the Riigikogu deals with them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, presence check, please! 89 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 12.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U106	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Courts initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft and we are going to the final vote. I would point out that a majority of the composition is necessary for the adoption of the draft. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on Courts initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office 134. Please take a stand and vote. 89 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U107	Today's second item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. A majority of the composition is also necessary for the adoption of this draft. The position of the commission is that a final vote should be taken and we will go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Constitutional Committee 176. Please take a stand and vote. 89 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U108	Today's third item is the third reading of Bill 159 of the Act on the Protection of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Republic and on the Amendment of the Law on Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The position of the lead committee is to carry out a final vote on the draft. We are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on draft law 159 on the protection of atmospheric air initiated by the Government of the Republic and amending the law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. Please take a stand and vote. 88 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, one against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U109	Today's fourth item is the second reading of the draft Act 174 on the Approval of the Amendment of Section 14 of the Statutes annexed to the Treaty of 11 February 2004 on the Nordic Investment Bank between Estonia, Iceland, Lithuania, Latvia, Norway, Sweden, Finland and Denmark, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U110	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the preparation for a second reading of the draft Act approving the amendment of Article 14 of the Constitution annexed to the Treaty of 15 February 2004 on the Nordic Investment Bank between Estonia, Iceland, Lithuania, Latvia, Norway, Sweden and Denmark. The draft approves amendments to the statutes of the Nordic Investment Bank, which extend the competence of the Board of Governors of the Bank. The Statute adds that the Board of Governors, under its jurisdiction, is composed of the Finance Ministers of the Bank's Member States, and is the decision-making process on the principles governing the management of the Bank's capital and liquidity. Such an amendment of the powers of the Board of Governors can only take place by common agreement between the Member States. The first reading of draft 174 was closed on 6 May, with no amendments tabled by 13 May. The commission discussed the draft for the preparation of the second reading at its meeting on 12 and 18 May. The Commission did not amend the draft and therefore no list of amendments has been drawn up. The Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs further submitted a note to the Contracting Parties, including on 14 May, that a technical amendment to the agreement amending the Statutes of the Nordic Investment Bank had been made to the Agreement on the entry into force of the Agreement. According to this agreement, it will enter into force not as soon as all Member States have submitted their letter of approval to the Kingdom of Norway, but after 30 days. At its meeting on 12 May, the Commission took the following consensual decisions: to propose a draft to be placed on the plenary agenda by 20 May and to propose a final vote on the draft. On 18 May, a note on technical amendments was also added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U111	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The commission has proposed a final vote of 174 on the draft. And we'll make it happen. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act approving the amendment of Article 14 of the Statute annexed to the Treaty of 11 February 2004 on the Nordic Investment Bank between Estonia, Iceland, Lithuania, Latvia, Norway, Finland and Denmark. Please take a stand and vote. 77 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U112	We are moving forward: today's fifth item is an overview of the achievement of the goals of Estonia's security policy. The waitress is Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly present the procedure for dealing with this item. First, the Prime Minister's presentation will be up to 25 minutes, then the questions will be for the waitress. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. Only the representatives of the political groups may speak in the negotiations. Please, Prime Minister, your turn!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U113	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good listeners! On 31 May 2017, the Riigikogu approved the foundations of Estonian security policy. According to this, each Riigikogu will renew its foundations after four years and the Prime Minister must give the Riigikogu an overview of the achievement of its objectives. Today is the first time the Prime Minister has made such an overview. In my presentation, I look back on three years on the basis of the thematic architecture of the foundations of security policy. The COVID-19 pandemic created a crisis in which no country or nation has remained untouched. A more comprehensive assessment of the security environment still needs to be awaited, but the pandemic is clearly affecting international relations. It cannot be excluded that the health and economic crisis will at one point also turn into a security crisis. We need to monitor closely the evolution of the virus in the world, the development of treatment facilities and vaccines, as well as developments in international politics and the economy. The COVID-19 pandemic once again showed that we are also dependent on things in a highly interwoven world that, at first sight, do not affect us. In 2017, we assessed that the global security environment is alarming, and there is no reason to change this assessment at this time. Traditional threats to Estonia's security have not disappeared. Russia continues to seek to call into question the security and stability of the whole of Europe, and action against international law in Eastern Ukraine and Crimea continues, unfortunately. The military threat to Estonia is small, but as we appreciated in 2017, it is not excluded if NATO's collective deterrence is not credible. We also need to be attentive to hybrid threats, for which several examples have been given over the last three years. The activities of hostile special services against NATO, the European Union and individual Member States are a permanent threat. Estonia is no exception here. The threat of terrorism is high in many parts of the world. At the same time, the likelihood of terrorist attacks in Estonia is low, but not non-existent. An example is the attack of a radicalized individual narrator. However, Estonia's security is certain today. It is based primarily on our willingness to defend our own country and to work towards it every day in many areas. It is also based on the membership of NATO and the European Union, the unity of the Member States and solidarity. Our security is still based on close relations with our friends in the Baltic Sea region and our relationship with the United States, which is Estonia's most important ally in security policy. The COVID-19 pandemic pointed out how important solidarity is at a critical moment, how much we depend on mutual support, assistance and interaction. Hopefully, this reminder will help to preserve the values and international organisations on which peace and prosperity in Europe have been built for the last 75 years. Honourable people in the hall! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The basis of the security policy provides for a wide range of national defence to protect Estonia from threats, regardless of their origin or place of appearance. Everyone's effort is important. And the last few months have shown that this is the right approach. No one will be left untouched by the great national crisis, and many wills and, of course, many resources must be mobilised to succeed. The planning and implementation of a wide range of national defence will be carried out on the basis of the National Defence Development Plan, which is currently being prepared for 2021/2030. As one of the fundamental principles of the development plan, we must increase the preparedness for crises. We must also complete the transfer to the State Chancellery of the crisis management tasks of the Ministry of the Interior, which was initiated before the crisis. This will ensure that the country as a whole is better prepared for both military and non-military crises. The State Chancellery has gained good experience in coordinating official activities and communication in this crisis. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! NATO is and will remain the basis for our cooperation on security and defence. There is no reason to doubt the credibility of NATO's deterrence and collective defence. Although the COVID-19 pandemic was not a military crisis, NATO also demonstrated its need in a civilian crisis. No NATO operation was completed, most of the allies who needed help were in solidarity, and Estonia also supported its allies, such as Spain and Italy. The defence costs of NATO's European allies have steadily increased in recent years, as has the readiness of the Allied Defence Forces. The presence of NATO's allies in our region became more visible in the form of battle groups. The allies, led by the British Defence Forces, are now integrated into our Defence Forces activities and plans. Together with NATO's Baltic air security activities and other allies, this has made our region's security more secure. I hope that the military presence of the United States in our region will also increase in the future. There are difficult times ahead, and I hope that collective defence will not remain in the background among our allies. The economic crisis should not lead allies to severe defence costs and capacity cuts, as in 2008. From the experience of previous crises, we know that countries that consider NATO to be their opponents will not cut their defence costs and capabilities. The COVID-19 pandemic showed the places of risk in the free movement of goods and people in Europe. These could become security issues: the congestion of the vehicles at the internal borders of the European Union we managed, but how much would the congestion of military equipment on the borders be damaging to us during a national defence crisis? Increasing military mobility is important for Estonia both in NATO and in the European Union and regionally. The crisis confirmed that this work must continue. The UN remains at the heart of global security and stability and the enforcement of international law. World order based on international law and rules, standing up for democratic values and human rights is in the interests of Estonia as a small country. We have also applied for this as a non-permanent member of the Security Council of the United Nations, where Estonia will hold the Presidency throughout May. We are working to keep the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic under regular attention from the Security Council. The Estonian Presidency is a great responsibility, but also recognition for our diplomats at the international front line of the global crisis. At the beginning of the pandemic, the European Union and the Member States were criticised for lack of preparation and lack of coordination in closing borders. Yes, transnational cooperation and exchange of information could have been better, but public health has been kept as a matter for the Member States, not for the European Union. And it is likely that the European Union could not have been better prepared for these circumstances. However, the fast-starting economic measures of the European Union show that more can be done together. The decision to allocate EUR 3.4 trillion to the recovery of the European economy is very commendable, and EUR 7.4 billion has been raised under the leadership of the European Union to finance the COVID-19 vaccine and pharmaceutical research. We welcome the forthcoming debate on the role of the European Union in dealing with cross-border threats. From Estonia's point of view, a broad-based approach to security in the European Union could be taken. This would help to better combine our actions from maintaining public health, food, technology, trade and the environment to security. Surely we could share our own experience. It was during the Estonian Presidency in 2017 that the debate on the role of the European Union in defence cooperation became more serious. It is good to note that the European Union has made a number of progress over the last three years, such as the European Defence Fund, military mobility, the security of communications networks, cyber-hybrid threats and countering information. And the greater cooperation with NATO, but not at the expense of the honourable Riigikogu, NATO. We have also worked for years to ensure that both the European Union and NATO are united and consistent in their Russian policy. We support the retention of the European Union's sanctions until the reasons for imposing them have been eliminated. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! With long-term targeted work, we have built a military defence based on real abilities and trained women-men. This is shown most clearly by the many exercises. For example, in 2018 nearly 18,000 people from Estonia and allied and partner countries participated in the major exercise in Siil. Last year, 9,000 people took part in the Spring Storm. Although the virus left it smaller than planned this year, the training was carried out with ambitious goals and conscripts passed the matriculation examination. The Defence Forces sent the necessary units to the reserve with almost 3,000 fighters to maintain their readiness. Military defence based on real capabilities has been based on long-term planning and targeted funding at a level of at least 2% of GDP. This has made it possible to invest in equipment, ammunition and infrastructure, as well as to develop a prior warning, in order to increase preparedness. Stable and targeted funding must continue to maintain credibility and good conditions for allies. We are therefore sending out a clear message to everyone: what is invested in national defence and long-term targeted work will lead to real results and readiness. We must be prepared for peacetime exercises and also for the reception, in a crisis situation, of significantly more allied forces. Defence cooperation with Latvia and Lithuania, one of the successes of which is the main headquarters of the Northern Division established in cooperation with the allies in Latvia, must also continue. The geographical location of Estonia in Europe obliges us to take matters relating to borders particularly seriously. We have made an effort to ensure that the Schengen area is reliable and secure so that international organised crime and terrorist groups cannot expand to Estonia and do not feel comfortable in our digital world. But most importantly, we have decided to build a modern eastern border and have allocated EUR 90 million for it. The first phase of the eastern border, the construction of 23.5 kilometres of long border infrastructure, begins in summer and will be completed in 2023. This is an important milestone in the work done since 2014. Estonia is regarded as a safe place of residence by 94% of Estonians. This is due to the efforts of the Police and Border Guard Board, the Rescue Board, the Alert Center, the Defence Police Department and other authorities. Targeted prevention is key to making it safe to move on the streets of Estonia at any time, so that fewer people get hurt or killed every year as a result of accidents, so that the threat of terrorism in Estonia is small and our constitutional order protected. Even before the summer, we hope to discuss in the government a new internal security development plan for the period from 2020 to 2030. It provides for the continuation of targeted prevention activities and aims to involve more communities and volunteers to ensure the security of their home. I attach great importance to volunteering, throughout the wide range of national defence. The 'Basic of Security Policy 2017' highlighted the need to prevent irregular migration to the European Union in order to ensure a common European security. Estonia is increasingly focusing on the root causes of migration and we are supporting vulnerable economies in the southern neighbourhood of the European Union. We also support the introduction of innovative digital solutions in developing countries to create better living conditions and reduce migratory pressures on Europe and Estonia. Another way of ensuring stability in the world and maintaining the security of our allies is to contribute to international military operations. In recent years, an average of one hundred armed forces, police and civilian officials have participated in operations and missions each year. About 200 members of the PBGB have participated in joint operations with Frontex, the European Union's Border and Coast Guard Agency. We're going to continue to bet like this. Honourable listeners! The link between climate change and security has clearly emerged in a few years. The current climate crisis is real and comparable to the development of the COVID-19: at first it is slow and distant, until at one point we have reached rapid growth and the implementation of comprehensive measures. In order to pay attention to climate change and greenhouse gas reductions, we set up the Government's Committee on Climate and Energy in July last year. We have decided to support the European Union's climate neutrality by 2050. Although last year, a record quantity of renewable energy was produced in Estonia, 17.1% of total electricity consumption, these production opportunities need to be further increased. As one measure, in November last year, the government decided to invest EUR 37 million in the acquisition of the Defence Forces' new long distance radar and additional radio systems. This will free a significant part of the height limits of the Virumaa wind farms from 2024. In order to ensure energy security, energy links with the countries of the European Union in the neighbourhood need to be developed alongside renewable energy. Connections are also strategically important in transport. Rail Baltic is important to Estonia from both economic development and security perspective. In order to ensure economic security, we need to start evaluating more effectively the compatibility of foreign investments in strategic and vital sectors with security interests. On the basis of the relevant European Union Directive, the government will prepare a draft by the end of the year. The very high level of digital development of the Estonian economy and society makes us vulnerable to cyber risks. Estonia, together with its allies and partners, has started to attribute international cyber attacks to their performers over the last year. The aim is to make attacks and attackers public, condemn them and increase the security of responsible countries. On the initiative of Estonia, the award of cyber attacks was discussed for the first time in March at the UN Security Council. As a result, the attacks against Georgia gave rise to a wider voice. From a national perspective, I will highlight the security weakness of the ID card in 2017. This put our digital services at serious risk, but thanks to the good work done by the authorities, there was no greater damage. To date, the digital signature system and national e-services have been made more risk-proof. Communication at all, including data communication, is another key issue for the resilience of the state and society. I thank the members of the Riigikogu for amending the Electronic Communications Act approved on 12 May. The government can now move forward on the issue of the security of communications networks, including the 5G network. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The COVID-19 pandemic is the biggest crisis since the restoration of state independence. This highlighted unnoticed problems such as legal clarity or communication. Now it is our duty to learn. We must emerge from every crisis in a more resilient, stronger and more cohesive manner. In fact, neither we nor any other country in the world were prepared for this crisis. We have managed so far and it is based on our previous preparations. We have organized legislation, prepared crisis plans and guidelines, organised exercises among government, ministries, institutions, local authorities and vital services providers. On the eve of the pandemic, March 5, the government made a series of decisions as lessons in the Southeast Estonia storm. We decided that by the end of 2021 there would have to be an autonomous gas station in each county. In order to ensure the continuous operation of the mobile network, 1000 base stations out of 450 need to be transformed into autonomous power supply. In order to address the crisis in local governments, all local governments, including those with fewer than 10000 inhabitants, must draw up crisis plans. Unfortunately, there will be more crises affecting society. We must continue to improve crisis preparedness across the country, both in the authorities, in companies and among the population. We must develop a culture of preparedness so that people are able to function independently at least for a certain time at the very beginning of the crisis. Public authorities and businesses also need to become more crisis-proof. The exchange of information and cooperation must improve. The experience of previous crises can be a guide here, but it is not a limiter that is known what form the crisis is going to take next. A culture of preparedness must help us to cope with all kinds of crises, including very wide-ranging ones. In 2018, the government approved the concept of population protection. The SMS notification system, which will be launched in 2021, must be complemented by the lessons learned from the COVID-19 pandemic. The state must provide people and businesses with a helping hand, both in preparation and in the wake of the crisis. I would like to highlight here the Rescue Board, which is becoming an advocate and developer of population protection. We also saw this during the last crisis. In the run-up to a possible new wave of viruses, we need to take care of the supply of medicines, medical and personal protective equipment in the near future. The government is planning to discuss a comprehensive view of both these and other strategic stocks in the country on 4 June. I would like to thank the National Defence Committee here. When I was there yesterday, I learned that the National Defence Committee has also been working and will continue to deal very seriously with the issue of stocks. Thank you for that. I emphasised the foundations of security policy to the Riigikogu on 2 May 2017 that many interlinked factors can undermine our security environment. Securing security requires the contribution and cooperation of all of us, and it is based on a coherent society. We still consider it to be one of the main principles that the security of Estonia and the security of our people begin with every Estonian. We all have a role to play in this. Estonia's security is strengthened by a united civil society where informed active citizenship plays an extremely important role in promoting security and security. Estonia's security is the most secure in a tolerant, caring and inclusive society. The cohesion of society and a common information field are key to all situations of emergency and crisis resolution. From the first days of our arrival in Estonia, we made efforts to reach all Estonian people regardless of their mother tongue. Our society demonstrated exceptional coherence in the eradication of the virus. Studies show that Russian-speaking people followed the instructions very diligently. It certainly played an important role in Radio 4, on the TV channel ETV+, on the Russian-speaking channels of the government, but also, of course, on the private media. The work to ensure the cohesion of society, which the work done during the crisis that we have been through together has created a new basis, will certainly not be in the middle of it. Very respected listeners and good members of the Riigikogu! In conclusion, I will return to the beginning. The security environment described three years ago in the foundations of security policy and our security principles and policies are still up to date. Following the principle that each Riigikogu will renew the foundations of security policy at least once every four years, the Government of the Republic has set itself the goal of updating the document by June 2021. This objective has become even more topical in the light of the COVID-19 pandemic, with work to renew the foundations starting already this autumn. I thank you and wish you strength for Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U114	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your presentation. No questions for you. Still is. Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U115	Thank you. I have a question about these stocks. Prime Minister, you mentioned once, but maybe you will specify what, for example, at regional level and at national level, in the light of this crisis, is the current picture. And what is the plan for the future, such as medical supplies? How have you planned to proceed with these supplies?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U116	Thank you for this question. First of all, in the light of this crisis, speaking in a medical perspective, I must honestly look at you and tell you that Estonia has not had a supply of medicines and medical supplies for a very long time. In Estonia, which has regained independence, I think today is the moment to be honest: it needs to be improved. I think we need to start stocking this stock for a long time than it's been so far. This is a problem and I believe that this problem needs to be resolved. We'll get, like I said, a inventory review on June 4. I said this yesterday in the Committee on National Defence during this debate, including with you. In my opinion, the government and, at least, the National Defence Committee, its chairman, Mr. Metsoja, is here, should exchange this information very seriously with each other and find the best way. We need to understand that drugs, medical supplies, are a problem for us. Now on, stocks in the light of this crisis, personal protective equipment. I think we need to make it clear that, at the very least, I repeat, at the very least, we need a two-month margin. And this margin should be distributed in such a way that in all public institutions, be they schools, nursing homes or hospitals, but also in the private sector, when it comes to medicine or the field of nursing homes, there must be a reserve for a minimum of one month. And the second one-month supply should be the central stock of the country. This would mean that there is a two-month margin in Estonia in any case. If we look at the normal situation, of course, it depends on personal protective equipment, but I think that the margin may be for a week, maybe two, maybe three weeks for some articles. But I think it should be very clearly 1 plus 1, which gives a minimum of two months. We are better prepared today in that we know Estonian companies who are able to produce personal protective equipment, and they can be bought by the state. And now, testing is very important. In fact, we've moved on with the testing, or rather the world has moved on. The so-called antibody tests, these rapid tests, are already coming on the market and can already be tested here in Estonia. At the same time, we actually have to keep these PCR tests. I mean, catapetic and venous blood tests. There is certainly more need to stock them in Estonia by autumn than there were in spring. As we have seen, in fact, getting tests into Estonia is a problem. If we're still talking about supplies, we need to talk separately about controlled breathing devices. If the new outbreak should be as wide as it was in one of Estonia's counties, then more breathing apparatus is definitely needed. I am thinking in particular of tertiary intensive care. As we discussed at the beginning of March the experiences of the crisis in South-East Estonia, the storm in Võrumaa, we also need to analyse issues relating to fuel supplies in connection with this crisis. This is certainly one area where there is a need for inventory and some capacity building. True, we cannot say that these will be in the autumn of 2020, but as I said, autonomous filling stations must be and communications in the communications towers must be guaranteed even if there is a complete blackout for certain hours. Both voice communications and SMS communications must be guaranteed. That is the answer to your question, very briefly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U117	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! First of all, I'm sorry I had to leave yesterday's meeting earlier. I'm sure I would have asked you yesterday, but I'm asking you now. We have just finished the temporary border control, which the Defence League has made a very important contribution to the implementation of which it has done very well in carrying out its tasks. It was certainly a very good cooperation experience for both the PBGB and the Defence League. What concerns me, however, is the possibility for the government to think of comfort that the Defence League will come during the crisis and the Defence League will. The Defence League guards the border, the Defence League clears the forest, the Defence League makes the third and fourth. But we are imagining a possible security crisis that requires temporary border control. In the security crisis, the Defence League is not helping the PB because the Defence League carries out its direct defence tasks. Nor is there a large number of younger volunteers in the security crisis, who are primarily reserve troops. My question: does the government intend to assess the emergency response of the Rescue Board and the PBGB in the context of the security crisis in particular in the context of staff?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U118	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U119	Thank you. First, I'm gonna start with what you guys were talking about. My thanks to the Defence League in this crisis are as sincere as yours. Yes, the Defence League was an extremely important partner for the PBA. He helped Estonia, he helped the people of Estonia. If I'm not mistaken, there must have been 150 defence allies to whom we gave the right to be on the borders and to use force there. Without it, we could hardly have coped for so long. Yes, we can close the borders with the capacity of the PBA for a certain time, but this is certainly not a very long time. So the Defence League was an important partner here, and I certainly agree with that with a great deal of gratitude. Now, let's get on with what you asked for. I think it is important that we really need to look at our so-called internal defence reserve. And that's what they're planning today. The Coalition Agreement, as well as the fundamental principles of the Government Union, have agreed to strengthen and prioritise the surveillance of the state border. The creation of the eastern border, the so-called border guard structure unit with a separate budget in the PBA and the establishment of an internal defence reserve with up-to-date armaments and other equipment, as well as the improvement of the border guard's field of study at the Internal Defence Academy. There will be a dozen additional posts in the PPA's structural border guard unit, which means a certain cost per year: estimated at half a million euros. The Director-General of the PBGB receives a deputy in the field of border control. I think it's important. In times of peace or civil crisis, the PBGB can involve the Defence Forces and the Defence League, as it was this time. As I said, 150 defence allies were involved. In the event of a national defence crisis, the Defence Forces and the Defence League are preparing for their main tasks. So if we have this so-called express reserve, it will certainly provide relief. In your example, if this is no longer, let us say, a health crisis, but is a crisis with a security issue, then, of course, the Defence League has another main task. In this way, I believe that the creation of this so-called express reserve is extremely necessary and important. It's being dealt with. According to the Ministry of the Interior, the cost of creating this reserve is tens of millions for equipment and training alone. About 700 people are kept in the eye. It would certainly be voluntary to be part of the reserve, but the parties will be awarded contracts. The objective of the crisis reserve is to protect border guards and different sites in a crisis situation where the need for human resources is rapidly increasing. That's my answer to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U120	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U121	Good President! Good Prime Minister! This is a good example of an agreement in society that we all agree that 2% of GDP must go to defence expenditure. However, I worry about the second part, which is just as important to us. Suppose we have a couple of good new tanks that hold well. But if these tanks are being held by a man or woman who happens to be bought by the enemy, then they're no use in the tank. Do you agree with me that the area of internal security and internal security I am thinking of the Police and Border Guard Board, the Defence Police, the Alert Centre and the Rescue Board will not be the subject of the forthcoming wage cuts? In 2009, their wages were cut, and it took years to recover from it. Can you confirm that, as Prime Minister, you are standing up for internal security, internal security, so that the salaries of these people do not at least fall in the coming years and rather increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U122	Good Katri Raik! The short answer is: I consider it extremely important that we do not go, whether it be internal security, security, medicine or education, on pay cuts. Of course, I stand by not thinking about it. But you're basically asking me the impossible. You're asking me if there's a crisis, will you promise not to cut? I do not know what this crisis is, how much the economy will fall, how much the economy will fall, what will happen to taxes. The first response is, of course, that I do not support wage cuts in these sectors. I don't think that would be justified. I understand you now want three drops of blood from me on this promise. That's what I'm working for, yes. That's my answer to you. I think we also need to look at what has been done in the last few years in the PBA, the Rescue Board, social affairs, social welfare, veterinary medicine. In all the places I called it, as well as in IT, wages have risen. It is certainly also a priority for the current government in the area of internal security, to keep people's incomes in the area of security and, if possible, to raise them. But we must also be guided by what is happening in our economy in fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U123	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U124	Good chairman of the sitting! Prime Minister! This crisis has drawn very clearly to us the importance of protecting the population. And I am pleased that you have pointed out in your speech that this kind of emergency also reveals what could happen during a much more difficult crisis. I mean, all kinds of supplies, all kinds of preparations. So why don't I ask you about your vision, what else could we do in the area of population protection in the next few years according to this lesson? Let's also think about the little details that really matter. Even here on the Riigikogu's yard, the former shelter, which is an old move full of this kind of thing could have been thought out. It could be okay, it could be some kind of contingency management center where we're practicing for crises.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U125	Thank you. I fully agree that population protection has become more and more topical in the last ten to five years. It's justified. I also want to tell you that during this last crisis, I had the opportunity to talk to you over the phone and you provided information on how to get personal protective equipment even faster. Thank you for that! I think that this is a good example of strong civil society and population protection, that we are all concerned and that, if there is a problem, we will come to help. Now, what are the concerns of population protection in the broader sense? One thing, of course, is that we do not know how to anticipate all kinds of crises, the issue of food supply, including the question of drinking water. And in order to ensure the preparedness of the population, we must not only consider it to be a nursing home or a hospital, there must be a generator and electricity, but we must also consider how to ensure heating there. If a crisis occurs in spring or summer or early autumn, it is not such a problem, but what if it is December, January, February? There are central heating, central heating, in many places, also in most of these institutions. And that heat's gonna go away really fast. We also need to prepare for this. Next: I think it is important that there is good cooperation between the government and the Riigikogu. As I said, yesterday I had a very positive meeting in the Committee on National Defence, to be honest. We really need to think about the resources we need to have and learn from the crises we have had. Now go on, you were talking about hiding. As regards the places of refuge, the Government of the Republic has decided that existing buildings will be used. And there's this building, like you said, right here in the courtyard. I've heard it exists. And when I was able to be here, I went there. But in any case, they should be found, mapped out and made so that they can be used if necessary. Like I said, the Rescue Authority has to deal with this. The whole topic of hiding is the competence of the Rescue Board. Stock management must be centrally organised, and we will discuss it on 4 June. And as I said, it is also important to implement the decisions taken on 5 March by the Government of the Republic relating to South-East Estonia. But, yeah, I think, for the sake of cover, we really need to map out, I don't know, big parking lots, big buildings. And people need to be provided with information about what to do when some crises come up, whether it's right to be in the room or whether it's right to go to the basement. We have cellars in a lot of apartment buildings. So this whole thing, this cover-up thing, I think it's important. There hasn't been such a crisis lately, thank God, but it has to be thought through. If it's at one point, it's too late. And I totally agree with you, and I think personally, where do I run, where do we hide? I know this, for example, that in the United States, where there are tornadoes in very many regions, it is known which houses have to go to the basement, how much water supply there is, how about communication, etc. It's all gonna have to be thought through, I agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U126	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U127	President-in-Office of the Council. Good Prime Minister! I thank you for yesterday's very constructive debate in the Committee on National Defence. But there was one important question I didn't ask yesterday. The foolish and inappropriate statements of our government's ministers can damage our allies, our security almost as much as enemy bombs. Last year, a minister of your government repeatedly attacked our important allies, made inappropriate statements. It ended with the President having to state that today's government is a security threat to the Estonian state. Have you drawn your own conclusions from this statement by the president? Can you confirm today before Parliament that if any of your ministers still undermine our allies with their declarations, our security, this person has no place in your government?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U128	Thank you, Mr. Juske! I think it's very important what you said. You said, quoting the President, that today's government, I understand, is a security threat to the Estonian state. I'm sorry, I'm categorically rejecting it! Today's government has taken office through democratic elections. If I am not mistaken, they took place on 3 March 2019. The Riigikogu, which gives a mandate to the candidate Prime Minister, forms a government and the question is whether or not he or she receives a mandate. It is appropriate for the rule of law, it is appropriate for a democratic society, it is appropriate for the independent Republic of Estonia. I will be honest with you that I think this is a very serious accusation, and now you are repeating that the government is a security threat to the Estonian state. I'm gonna push it off a categorical table! Definitely! I don't know, I don't think you should play with examples like this. You're actually implying a whole other thing. You are talking about the words said to the Prime Minister of Finland, you are talking about NATO's plan B, so ask questions that you want to ask. You say stupid, I don't know, sayings. So are people stupid? I don't know any stupid members of the Riigikogu, I don't know any stupid members of the Government of the Republic. I know that the members of the government are all making every effort to ensure Estonia's independence today, tomorrow and forever. After all, we are pursuing this objective, which is set out in this document, right here on the basis of security policy. This objective is very specific. The aim of Estonia's security policy is to ensure the independence and independence of the Estonian state, the survival of the people and state, territorial integrity, constitutional order and security of the population. Estonia implements its security policy by respecting the fundamental rights and freedoms of people and by defending constitutional values. The aim of Estonia's security policy is to prevent and prevent threats in order to preserve nationalism and its continuity, and to face them quickly and flexibly if necessary. In any case, Estonia will defend itself against any overwhelming opponent. Period. That's where we come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U129	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U130	Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you for your review. You focused very briefly, but specifically on the context of European military mobility. The National Defence Committee visited the European Commission's Directorate-General for Mobility and Transport, Mr Hololei. He confirmed that Estonia's ambition could make a strong contribution to the existence of this facility and to the 'balanced development' within Europe. Perhaps you can comment briefly on what state we are in? In fact, it is this, in our military cooperation with our allies in a crisis situation, that is the window for Europe, which must be cut very clearly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U131	Thank you. Yes, point 1: Military Mobility - I'm sorry for the English expression! It is important for Estonia, it is important for Estonia. As I said, 2017 was one of the thoughts of creating PESCO was just military mobility or, let's say, technology mobility across the border. When it comes to military mobility, we can safely say that this is one of the most important projects in NATO-EU cooperation, where the European Union can bring such added value without going into the military field. An example of the success of military mobility is that in order to move military equipment across the internal borders of the European Union, countries must process the border crossing permit within a maximum of five days. All this military mobility has been our priority. There's one more thing I want to say. I also said this in my speech and when I talk about military mobility, I want to emphasise one more point. It is that, as I said, when we talk about various security issues, it cannot come like it is at NATO's expense. It has to be cooperation. After all, military mobility is the question of MFF; it is the question of the next budgetary framework for the European Union. I personally have spoken during the crisis, with the Budget Commissioner a few weeks ago. I said that military mobility is important for Estonia and we want it to be included in the budget. And I have to acknowledge him and thank him for saying he said it was important too. Military mobility must be accounted for there. It is true that the sums that were originally there are reduced, these amounts have been cut down. What it's going to be, I can't tell you, and I don't think anyone knows today. MFF doesn't exist. But is this Estonia's A-priority, is Estonia stressing this in the MFF negotiations? Yes, that is our priority, and we will certainly emphasise that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U132	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U133	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! I want to ask you a few more questions about the threat of a pandemic. In 2018, the Health Board played through the comprehensive pandemic scenario and quite fundamental conclusions were drawn from it. They looked at the bottlenecks and also envisaged a disruption of the supply of protective equipment. Our threat assessments have been correct, the conclusions have been entirely adequate, but, Prime Minister, it seems to me that they are stuck in a drawer somewhere. The conclusions and actions have not been followed. What do you say to that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U134	Thank you. I do not know if this issue is from this opera, but if it is, I will say that when drafting the state budget strategy and the state budget, ministries always submit their applications. Certainly, the Ministry of Social Affairs and other ministries have also applied for a higher amount of personal protective equipment, which has not been satisfied. There is nothing to do, it is always the case that, under the conditions of limited resources, something must be discarded and something has been discarded. The request for more personal protective equipment has certainly been discarded; it is not worth hiding my head in the sand here. But it's a natural process in the course of the budget or the RES procedure. Yes, we now have a very painful experience of the last 2 to 3 months. As I said, we should have a higher national central reserve of personal protective equipment. It's gonna cost quite a bit. In today's one month, say, the prices on the world market in April would cost about 20 million euros for personal protective equipment that Estonia would need. I mean basically the whole sector, except for the private sector. But the whole front line: PB, Defence Forces, Defence League, nursing homes, including private care homes and hospitals. And that reserve needs to be changed all the time. Something gets old, some kind of "acceptable until" has to be taken out of storage, a new amount brought in. Its price is EUR 20 million in today's prices, prices have gone so high. This EUR 20 million basically guarantees a month's personal protective equipment. And it didn't take into account the private sector, such as the cascading of grocery stores. I think, in fact, we have had a very important experience. I think we're gonna have to put more money in there now. And the second experience I want to make is that we have Estonian producers. We didn't know too many of them before. We knew some Estonian producers, such as the company that specifically produced the respirator FFP3 in Estonia and Germany. He was pretty quick to reorganize his production, organize more shifts. Yeah, it meant a very big contract by the state, but it started producing more FFP3 masks. There were also those who changed their production and were able to start producing surgical masks. So in this sense, too, we gained a little, not a little, but a lot of wisdom. Yes, I agree that we are smarter today in terms of stocks and also in terms of financing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U135	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U136	Thank you. Prime Minister! It is understandable that cooperation with our allies in creating a visible, credible deterrent is one of the pillars of the Estonian security and defence policy, in addition to its independent defence capabilities. The presence of NATO battalions in the Baltic States is extremely important and it is very good that for all the shakes that have taken place both in Brexit and in other ways, it all works nicely for us. But there is one gap where, however, we need to devote more to'results-oriented' activities. The question is the presence of the United States in the Baltic States, including Estonia. I would ask this question: what do you think would be the most important course of action to achieve the presence of an ally of great importance to us, the United States armed forces in Estonia? I don't mean permanent presence, but maybe rotating. What's your vision of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U137	Thank you. First of all, I agree that it is very important that we have really managed to ensure proper air security in Estonia throughout this pandemic. Polish fighters left Ämari, French fighters replaced air security. The same Spring Storm, which took place, yes, it was, on the one hand, a good matriculation examination for our conscripts, but, on the other hand, an eFP was involved, as you have just noted. I just want to repeat what you said: the fact that the eFP battalions are present in the three Baltic countries and in addition in Poland is, of course, important for us. The leading countries are the United States, Canada, Germany, Great Britain. And, in fact, it is something special when we think that, although the United Kingdom has left the European Union, bilateral and multilateral cooperation on security has continued without change. It is a key ally for us in NATO, who, as you rightly said, is also the leader of the battle group. I remember that Britain has confirmed the continuation of eFP in Estonia as long as it is necessary. And I really am very grateful that last December, on 21 December, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson also told me personally that Britain would definitely stay here. And this is important to Estonia; continuing cooperation with the United Kingdom is extremely important. Now, what would be the areas you asked about in view of the United States of America? Definitely U.S. presence at the exercise. U.S. attendance is important. If you go into more detail, it's definitely filling out such, well, critical power gaps. I am thinking, for example, of air protection participation in exercises, which I think is important. As far as the three Baltic countries are concerned, Lithuania had a rotating United States battalion. If I'm not mistaken, it was over in February, but they were also there for four or five or six months. I think it's important. That was good. Such rotations should, if possible, be repeated in the future. So more of that Navy-Air action. But I'm sure the presence of the United States is wider. It is not only a direct military presence; it is also a cooperation in the cyber field, which I think is quite good. I personally had the opportunity to negotiate a 5G memorandum with Vice President Mike Pence of the United States. But the initiative of the three seas has also been our foreign policy priority this year, and Estonia is holding the Presidency there this year. And we hope that if the virus outbreak does not return so strongly, we will be able to take the initiative of three seas on the initiative of the President this autumn and set up this fund. Such observations.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U138	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U139	Thank you. A moment ago Jaak Juske, a member of the Social Democratic Party, claimed that the current government is like a threat to the constitutional order of Estonia. I remind you of a meeting here a few years ago. We met with the Foreign Affairs Committee on a British warship that visited Tallinn, and then Sven Mikser, chairman of the Baltic Foreign Affairs Committee, compared Donald Trump, the President of the United States, to Hitler. Of course, this was followed by a very awkward silence among our guests. But similar disparaging statements about the President of the United States have repeatedly come from the ranks of the Sots; they have repeatedly come from the ranks of the Reform Party and, unfortunately, also from our media. Do you share my view that precisely such statements about our very good and very important NATO ally are precisely the things that threaten our security?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U140	Thank you. A: These are, of course, very wrong statements. B: We're all human. The President of the United States, also a great and powerful and our most important ally, is a man of flesh and flesh. It is certainly not excluded that such statements will reach him too. Of course it's damaging relationships, I don't think there's any question. It doesn't matter who that woman or man is at the White House today. The important thing is that our allies with the United States are strategically important. Donald Trump has been elected in a democratic way, he is the president of the United States, the president of the most powerful country in the world. The US is a very important partner in NATO. And I also want to say that personal relations, including relationships at individual level, are also very important. That is also true of the President of the United States. I was honored to meet him in December. He has asked for a separate meeting, if I am not mistaken, from nine countries now contributing 2%. It was very pleasant. I am very grateful that he has noticed Estonia and Estonia was one at the table there. So relations with the United States are strategically important, but also, of course, relations with the White House administration. Such statements do not help in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U141	Thank you, Prime Minister. No further questions for you. And now I'm opening negotiations. Kalle Laane on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please! Five plus three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U142	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good Prime Minister! As you answered Mr Juske's question, you pointed out the aim of security policy, but this area is so important that I will repeat it again. A repetition is the mother of wisdom. The aim of Estonia's security policy is to ensure the independence and independence of the Estonian state, the survival of the people and state, territorial integrity, constitutional order and security of the population. Estonia conducts its security policy in compliance with fundamental rights and freedoms and defending constitutional values. The aim of our security policy is to prevent and prevent threats and, if necessary, to face them quickly and flexibly in order to preserve nationalism and its continuity. In any case, Estonia will defend itself against any overwhelming opponent. If the state temporarily loses control of part of its territory, Estonian citizens will show organized resistance to the opponent in this area. You can only agree with that. The previous decision "Basics of Estonian Security Policy', approved by the Riigikogu, explains the following. The threat picture has become more complex in recent decades and the sources of danger have become more diverse. Asymmetric threats have emerged which do not know national borders and the sources of which are difficult to identify, but which have an impact on security equivalent to traditional security threats. Insecurity of the economic environment, cyberspace and threats to technological progress, radicalisation and terrorism, organised crime and corruption, migration flows and emergencies for various reasons are increasingly affecting security. What is the current security environment? The global security environment is alarming, and the global economy is in a strong recession. Transnational cooperation was largely paralyzed, the COVID-19 virus had done its job and, above all, the countries wanted to solve their internal problems. Cooperation in the European Union and in the wider world was paralyzed in some respects. Yes, we can admit that, fortunately, NATO worked. In order to increase the credibility of deterrence in the Baltic States, greater US visibility is necessary, including in Estonia. The implementation of the military mobility programme in the European Union is certainly no less important. We must hope that the Commissioner for Finance will have a table drawer with financial cover for this. It makes sense for us to apply the same principles in Estonia, i.e. to take into account national defence needs in the construction of large infrastructure projects, such as load capacity. We're living in a different world now than we were a few months ago. We are surrounded by very different dangers. We're getting out of the corona crisis. But what if the forecast for 1000 people in need of hospital care had come true, the spread of the virus would not have been limited to some areas of Estonia and the restrictions on movement would have lasted months longer than now? The consequences are unemployment, the budgetary deficit resulting from the failure of the economy, the social crisis, which in turn results in unrest in the country. Statehood falls without attacking a larger foreign enemy because the state is weak. In order to avoid this, there must be a multifaceted set of early warning systems that are sufficiently reliable for political decision-making. Now for the resolution of crises. Crisis resolution can be organised by people with the necessary knowledge, skills and experience. A country the size of Estonia cannot employ professional crisis regulators in every department. The country must have an authority or authorities with crisis management capabilities, shared as necessary. There must also be a legal framework for crisis management, starting from an emergency to martial law. The current Emergency Act does not ensure effective resolution of the crisis, as the corona crisis has shown. Consequently, I propose once again to start a new analysis in order to prepare a draft law to support the resolution of crisis cases, whether it is a civil or military crisis. The work of the Estonian national defence authorities must change their paradigm. Comprehensive national defence must become a part of everyday life, not only in exercises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U143	Thank you. Jaak Juske on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U144	President-in-Office of the Council. Austet Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The objectives and actions associated with the basic document on security policy constitute a crucial cornerstone of our continued independence. Estonia will never grow in numbers, but we can be with our allies. This debate here in the Riigikogu is all the more important today. The foundations of Estonian security policy were approved three years ago in this very hall. On the one hand, not much has changed since then. Our goal remains to maintain our independence, our statehood. History has shown that we cannot do this alone. We needed allies in the War of Independence a century ago, and we need allies today. As part of NATO, we can feel more confident in military terms than ever before in history. However, a small country next to an aggressive large neighbour needs to build and maintain its defences every day. All activities aimed at achieving this objective are still relevant. At the same time, a number of important changes have taken place in three years. Firstly, in the meantime, a party has entered the Estonian government, whose top politicians, led by the leader of the party in office of the Minister of the Interior, have repeatedly attacked the foundations of the rule of law and free society. But even more important in the context of today's debate: they have attacked our allies, our partners, both in NATO and outside NATO in a vulgar way. The document on the basis of the basis of the security policy contains a separate chapter on the threats to the constitutional order of Estonia. When this important paper was approved in the previous composition of the Riigikogu, no one could have seen in the worst dream that barely two and a half years later the highest leader of our national defence, the President of the Republic, is forced to make a statement stating that the current Government of the Republic is a threat to the constitutional order and security of Estonia. Such a statement is not made by a leader of a democratic state with a light hand. There must be a very good reason for this. And there was certainly a series of statements that would undermine the allied relations made by the members of the government at the time. Another important change has been the continuing corona apandemia. It has tested the functioning of the European Union, as well as NATO. One of our most important military allies in Eastern Europe, Poland, has closed its borders, and Estonian citizens are therefore trapped elsewhere in Europe. But let us now imagine that the civilian crisis has suddenly grown into a security crisis. A Europe with closed borders would be very vulnerable. The health crisis has now become an economic crisis. Revenues from our national budgets are facing a drastic decline; however, the factors threatening our independence have not been reduced; rather, they have come more. It is therefore crucial to keep Estonia's defence expenditure at 2% level, adding the costs associated with the presence of the allies and the investments that are essential to improve our defence capabilities. The financing of internal security must not be forgotten, because what good is an armoured vehicle in the Estonian Defence Forces, led by an enemy-soldier. At the same time, we can spend 500 or 600 million or even a billion dollars on our defenses. However, all of this will be of no use if our own government continues to use the attacking style of our sobering allies. Words have tremendous power. With stupid statements, we can ruin more than a thousand enemy bombs. And the survival of this risk is, unfortunately, the Prime Minister's choice. But finally, ladies and gentlemen, I want to believe that the heart of all the political parties represented in the Riigikogu is, however, the persistence of Estonia and the taking of the necessary security steps. This is demonstrated by the very unanimous cooperation between the political groups in the Committee on National Defence, which will, by the way, continue the procedure for a new draft law on defence in the near future. In conclusion: by maintaining allied relations, we will maintain Estonia by contributing to national defence, we will contribute to the survival of Estonia through the ages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U145	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Andres Metsoja Isamaa Party. Please, five plus three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U146	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Strong broad-based national defence begins with us. Everyone's bet counts. Our daily joint effort ensures the independence and independence of the Estonian state and the security of our population. We have seen the impact and success of this day-to-day joint action very closely in recent months. It must not be forgotten that ensuring national defence and security is not just military defence and military action of the state. In the last few months of the health crisis, we have also seen the importance of the Ministry of Defence, the Defence Forces and the Defence League based on volunteering. The contribution of these organisations to resolving the corona crisis cannot be underestimated. Nearly 2,000 defence allies and militias contributed to the fight against the virus. We also saw the importance of Estonia's crisis reserves. When masks and protective equipment were scarce, it was the Defence Forces who helped to alleviate the shortage with a protective mask of 700000. The crisis once again brought the issue of security of supply into society's consciousness. In the Committee on National Defence, we have dealt repeatedly with the question of capacity gaps and security of supply, and we are hoping for good cooperation here in order to be even better prepared for new crises. We are always talking about NATO, the European Union and our allies around the world, in addition to our independent defence capabilities, on the foundations of Estonian national defence. We are certainly doing this rightly. Estonia is part of the international community and our allies guarantee us a better security guarantee than ever before in Estonian history. At the same time, we know that national defence begins with us, how we decide to shape and value our national defence. Without it, there is no point in talking about the help of the allies. Our long-term defence A and O is at least 2% of GDP sequestration into national defence, plus the reception costs of allies. This has been the consistent policy of the Fatherland, which has now become a cross-party consensus. In 2020, this will mean a cost of EUR 615 million, an investment aimed at ensuring our defence and defence capabilities. These instruments will acquire new equipment for entities, invest in infrastructure and the development and maintenance of new defence capabilities. The defence investment programme launched aims to achieve several critical capabilities earlier and to acquire new equipment, whether new long-range anti-tank weapons, new handguns for defence forces or new flak jackets. In January of this year, a new air operations control centre building was opened, which, together with two centres in Latvia and Lithuania, ensures the integrity of the airspace of the Baltic States 24/7. And, of course, the cybersecurity training centre, which was launched in April, must also be mentioned. The 2% requirement and the investments planned so far must not be forgotten either in the context of the economic crisis. Every euro spent must be assessed critically, but a reduction in the defence budget made as a light decision for a short time would jeopardise the long-term perspective and sustainability of our defence. There will be a serious debate on this issue in the coming months, and I very much hope from all of you that we will find the best possible solution for Estonia's security. It is known that every crisis also offers opportunities. One area of great potential that needs state support and empowerment is the Estonian defence industry. It is a sector with a great potential for development that needs the initiative of the government and the support of the Riigikogu. It is common knowledge that in times of crisis, it is quite difficult to obtain certain equipment from abroad. Further work is needed on how to develop the defence industry as part of Estonia's defence capabilities and exploit the synergies that arise. A competitive defence industry targeting the international market must be our priority. Defence industry companies carry out research and development for defence and security purposes, which benefits Estonia's reputation as well as business. Investments and financial contributions, however, do not matter without the defence wishes of the Estonian people. I am pleased that from year to year, the number of people who enter the service voluntarily will increase, but there is still a long way to go in this area as well. The number of members of the Defence League continues to grow. At the same time, we can see from various studies that people's trust in the Defence Forces and the Defence League is high, which is also known by the large proportion of the reservists who participated in the exercises. All of this does not come in itself, and the importance of national defence must be introduced early on, whether it is at the upper secondary school level of national defence or other patriotic education programmes. The defence of Estonian society is strong and must be maintained and further enhanced. Finally, just as I began: National defence is a common effort of all of us on a daily basis, both in words and in deed. The events of the last few months confirmed this once again. Let us protect Estonia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U147	Thank you. Oudekki Loone on behalf of the Centre Party Group! Five plus three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U148	Good fellows! The first week after the end of the emergency situation, of course, must be asked whether the fundamentals of our security environment lasted, whether our policy has been reasonable and what we could learn for the next time. I think that the most important observation really is that a broad national defence is not a bureaucratic word; security policy is much more than armoured vehicles and fighter planes. The crisis, which we just came out of, and actually quite successfully, so the fundamentals are pretty good, shows that military defence is sometimes a very, very narrow and not the most important area for preserving lives and the economy. Although it is always a necessary area. Now we see, for example, how important it is that not all hospitals are concentrated in Tallinn. Yes, under normal circumstances, we may think that efficiency, reasonableness, concentration of things, and maybe of money, is even reasonable, but what happens if a part of the country is cut off, even as a result of a pandemic? What would have happened if the Saaremaa hospital had been completely cut off? Yes, the principle of broad defence is that vital services must be available in every county. This may sometimes seem like a luxury in a small country, but as soon as we have a crisis, it is a necessity. When we're in a crisis, we don't train new doctors anymore. We use the ones we have. Even new hospitals aren't built very quickly. It took weeks to get the masks. Similarly, gas stations, generators, ready-written and practiced crisis plans, it is not empty-time spending, it is very-very important. Although we may feel that we are duplicating certain services, once again: if we have a crisis, they are essential. Let us think about the recent health crisis. We can imagine how terrible a situation could be in an unconventional war where someone uses a biological weapon. We also need to think about our security policy from the point of view of how we will respond. This means that, despite our small size, we must be able to offer certain products and services ourselves, because ordinary trade may not work. It is in the interest of all of us, for example, that the pharmaceutical industry in Estonia actually exists together with the industrial chain that belongs to it. Yes, it may not be competitive at first and never at all on the international market, but it is in the interests of broad-based national defence that we have this knowledge and these skills. Similarly, we should be able to produce medical equipment. We have all become very aware of the need for breathing devices in the last two months, but we also need a large number of other devices. We must have these skills and knowledge even if we do not compete in this area every day. Similarly, there must be its own transport capacity. Ships, airplanes, trains and associated companies must be present. People who can maintain trains and planes, build ships, fix them, drive them, we have to have them all the time, we can't train them when the crisis is at hand. We will not create the necessary companies once the crisis has arisen. It must all be there at all times and even if it is slightly loss-making. It's in the interests of our wide-spread national defence. Of course, it needs state investment; it needs state support. I think that if we wanted such strategic industries to exist, we could think about creating a national investment bank, which, especially in times of crisis, will provide oxygen to the industries and other industries that we all need. Even if they do not make an immediate profit, even if the market forces say: no, you are too small and too pointless. But we need it, our people need it. This also means, of course, that all these sectors and, among other things, all Estonian sectors could be filled with trained workers whose well-being is guaranteed. The Prime Minister has just recognised the Rescue Department, which is becoming an advocate and developer of the protection of the population. At the same time, the wages of the rescue industry are dragging us somewhere in the region. The Saviors, who are always at the front line, could start with the average wage in Estonia. If we are now going to make the next budget, we should not forget them. It should not be forgotten that people guaranteeing our broad-based national defence should not every day combine how to feed their children and whether they are financially viable in front of the bank to buy a home at all so that they have a table where to put it. Similarly, it is important for us to have our own workforce, our food security, in all areas. We cannot go on like this so that we cannot grow what we need for food, because we do not have people to do it. And if we guarantee a domestic labour force that is protected and who receives reasonable pay, then it also means that we are very effective in meeting the objective of curbing illegal migration. We have jobs filled. And now, last but not least, let us not forget that the whole world, such normal security, will continue to exist. Estonia is a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, currently also its chairman in May, among the real sovereign states. And one aspect that we are discussing there, and which we should consider more widely among ourselves, is the reform of the expansion of the Security Council, which has been requested by very many countries. There are a number of proposals. One suggestion is that the veto should be abolished. One proposal is that there should be more permanenced members, and one proposal is that non-permanent members should either be chosen or their mandate extended or both. Where is Estonia supposed to be standing here? It certainly does not make sense to lose veto rights. And that's not possible. I do not believe that the countries that have it now will allow this to happen. But that's not a good idea either. What is the UN Security Council? It is not the club of the richest, largest countries, it is not the G20, the G14, the G8 whatever. The permanent members of the Security Council shall be States with a legitimate nuclear weapon. Do we want more of these countries? Are we saying that the entire nuclear weapons limitation policy so far has failed? Maybe you don't need it. In fact, this Council has been effectively maintained as it was created, because countries with nuclear weapons have not destroyed the world. If we want regional equality, then it is precisely the proposals to extend membership or extend the mandate of non-permanent members that should be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U149	Thank you. Leo Kunnas on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group! Please, five plus three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U150	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, first of all, thank you for your presentation. I will also use this high chair to thank everyone who was at the forefront during this crisis. The emergency is over, but the crisis is not. And the crisis, in fact, as such a united crisis, is only at the beginning. We see how the current crisis, especially the medical crisis, is becoming an economic crisis. And we know from history that economic crises have often become social crises, which in turn have triggered security crises and also wars. This is generally the logic of how things have gone, and that is the logic that we should try to avoid at all costs. We currently have a number of important development plans in place, and two of them are directly relevant to national defence: the National Defence Development Plan 2021 to 2030 and the Internal Security Development Plan 2021 to 2030. What, then, are we supposed to record in these plans in a situation where our gross economic output is smaller? What should guide us in assessing the need that we should put there? Since 2016, when the U.S. think tank RAND Corporation made a thorough report that the Baltic States are not well protected, that the allies do not have enough units here, that we, the Baltic States themselves, do not have enough troops, that we have significant power gaps, that such reports have come up, would say this way, in the form of a package. I've got such a thick file of my own. And I think we should take into account what these reports write. Our own Defence Research Centre has also written about several power gaps, such as our lack of capabilities at sea and in mid-earth air control. We have a strong or credible political deterrent as a member of the Alliance, but our military deterrence is far from sufficient. I myself see three important gaps in capabilities that we should now try to fill with the new national defence development plan. The first of these is minewatering and beach defence. If we look here at our location and also at Stenbock's house, we'll see that about 1,000 meters or a little bit less distance away is the A-terminal. If we don't have a mine-watering and beach defense capability, then that means that the Marine Corps of a potential enemy, or even the motor-lazer units, can just go to the beach with either a landing ship or a ro-ro vessel and just come to the ground. And we have to fight them with handguns. This situation is quite dangerous and we should get over it. Marine mines are not an expensive weapon system compared to many other, more expensive weapons systems. Our Defence Forces have one launching vessel, including border guard ships, which are capable of launching, and are actually well suited to this by the barges in our state, which are currently flying between Saaremaa and Hiiumaa. When we have sea mines, it's not so easy to drive in to the beach, but you have to check it out and watch it. When we talk about coastal defence with missile complexes, there are two options: either we put them on ships or we put them on a truck on the beach. The ship is an expensive platform, and it's also vulnerable from the air. A truck is cheap, you can put it on a packless landscape, put it in a building. If we're talking about distance, 30 kilometers is quite enough. There are also longer-distance complexes, but in this case, you need to control the fire, perhaps more expensive radars. Let's put down the mines and check it with the missile complexes on the coastguard, and we can't just get into the main ports. These capabilities are certainly what we should address in our new National Defence Development Plan. Another important capability is mid-earth air control. We have close-air air control, which is part of our infantry crews, but unfortunately, in our country it has become so that half of the population has gathered in this great-Tallinn space. Our important industry, the management of everything is practically here. Speaking of mid-earth air control, the distance is about 30 kilometres or more with a radius and then 10 kilometres upwards. Of course, these systems aren't exactly cheap, but if we do more work, we look for opportunities, it's certainly possible to solve them. Otherwise, at least at the beginning of the military conflict, our allies will be struggling to gain dominance in this airspace. Therefore, we should also undertake this capability gap in this development plan. I'm now going to the points of the Internal Security Development Plan. There has been strong criticism here as to why an internal defence reserve, or crisis reserve, is needed, why a separate governance structure is needed for border guards. What's all this good and necessary for? I'd say so. I went on a tour of the eastern border with the Minister of the Interior in the spring, and I saw that the border guards were doing a good job there. Nice pistols were on the belt in a holster, just like it was in peacetime. Then I asked if they had any heavy weapons. The men said we had machine guns in the gun locker and even a machine gun. When we looked at the Bridge of Friendship, I said, "If we had to go to war, God would never let it go, who would blow up that bridge?" The commander of the cordon thought and said either the Defence League or the Defence Forces. They should agree between themselves who's doing it. I hope you all feel that this situation is somewhat dangerous and that we should improve it. That's what this government wants to do. I see the time is up. I'm going to do a dot here. I got the most important things to say. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U151	Thank you. Would the Prime Minister like to make a final statement? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U152	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I would like to thank all those who have been present during this very important discussion in this Chamber. Thank you for that. What am I saying? First of all, I think it is very important that we consider a culture of preparedness to be important. Each crisis is unique, but it is a culture of preparedness that helps to be better prepared for each crisis. I would also like to say that the pandemic reminded us of the importance of international order, international cooperation, how much really depends on our friends, allies, international organisations, their solidarity and cooperation. Third, our people are working hard, they have done well. We've developed national defence, both military and non-military. Our security and security are ultimately in the hands of all of us, and every person's contribution is important. It's the only way for a small country to keep its own. And surely this corona crisis reminded all of us of the importance of keeping together at critical moments, acting together, the sense of our society. Indeed, I very much hope to support the second, to help the second, to help the second, to notice the second helps to preserve and secure the values that are important to us, and also to support international organisations, on which Estonia's independence, Estonia's peace and prosperity are also based. I want to thank the entire Riigikogu for today's debate. I thank everyone for listening, I thank everyone who asked for it, given their input here. I would like to say an extra thank you to the Chairman of the National Defence Commission and to the entire National Defence Commission. That's not what I'm saying. In my opinion, yesterday's meeting was a really positive and practically necessary meeting, and I think that we could continue to reflect on these issues with some members of the National Defence Committee in the coming days. But even in the long run, these meetings are always open for me. Thank you for this debate today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U153	Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you to all speakers. An overview of the achievement of Estonia's security policy objectives has been discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U154	We will move on to the sixth item, which is the second reading of the Trade Union Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Working Conditions Act for Posted Workers and the Act amending other laws. I ask Signe Riisalo, member of the Social Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U155	Good manager! Colleagues here in the hall and in their rooms! I will then take a look at what has happened between the first and second readings in the Committee on Social Affairs with this draft. I will talk about the amendments, and then I will also announce the Commission's decisions. On 9 March, the Government of the Republic initiated a draft Act amending the Employment Working Conditions Act for Posted Workers to Estonia, the main aim of which is to bring our law into line with Directive 2018/957 of the European Parliament and of the Council. We did not receive any amendments to these points of the directive, but we received proposals from the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Confederation of Trade Unions by the deadline of the amendments, 7 May. That's what I'm dealing with here. The Confederation of Trade Unions proposed an amendment in which it asked to delete the word 'commercial vessel' from the draft. This would simply have meant that the regulation of the Working Conditions Act on posted workers to Estonia and the conditions of the Directive would also apply to maritime transport. During the debate on this proposal, the Ministry of Social Affairs gave a very clear answer that this is not in line with the idea of this directive. And the topic of seafaring is dealt with within Estonia by the second law and the international directorates are also other. This amendment was not taken into account by the Commission. A very important package of amendments came from the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Ministry proposed further amendments to the Trade Unions Act, the Employment Contracts Act, the Workers' Trustees Act and the Law on Health and Safety at Work, and this is due to the 2018 Supreme Court ruling, which has been an obstacle to the Labour Inspectorate in carrying out supervision and misdemeanour proceedings. Simply explained, the problem is that in all these laws, including the Working Conditions of Posted Workers Act, the term 'employer' is not sufficient and this significantly limits the role of the Labour Inspectorate in the protection of workers. All these laws are intended to replace the term "employer' throughout by the words "employer, member of his board or other representative to whom the obligation has been delegated'. The definition of employer is therefore clarified and extended. This would give the Labour Inspectorate the opportunity to carry out his task and we, as a Riigikogu, take steps to better protect the employee. Regrettably, I must also mention here the fact that, after these amendments have been incorporated, we have created another cluster bill. Initially, only the aim of bringing the directive into line and amending one law has become an amendment to six laws. In addition, it should be mentioned that this is a decision of the Supreme Court of 2018. So the necessary improvements could have reached the Riigikogu a long time ago, and we would not be forced to rush to solve this problem today. I certainly want to say that such processing is not a good practice. At the same time, I stress the role of the Riigikogu in protecting more vulnerable people, i.e. protecting employees, and that is why the Social Affairs Committee has incorporated these amendments into the original draft. It was also worrying that we did not have written information on these changes from the Labour Inspectorate, trade unions, the Confederation of Employers, the Ministry of Justice or other parties, apart from the Ministry's proposal. In the meantime, the Committee on Social Affairs received written statements, which were all in favour, and we were then able to consult those parties who wanted to. However, the Committee on Social Affairs considers that the procedure of the draft is correct in giving the parties the opportunity to propose their amendments to the new, substantially changed text of the law, and consequently the decisions of the commission are as follows: The draft is then on today's agenda, you have Signe Riisalo before you, and our proposal is to interrupt the second reading. The deadline for tabling amendments could be 29 May at 4 p.m. All the Commission's decisions were consensual.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U156	Thank you. A round of questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U157	Good manager! Good waitress! A little more light on that background. How many people, those posted temporary agency workers, who are affected by this directive, if they are excluded from it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U158	Yeah, I can tell you that right now. These numbers have increased considerably over the last few years. While we had a number of posted workers in 2017, according to the Labour Inspectorate, 1221, in 2018 it doubled: 2581 workers. In 2019, there were 3,509 posted workers last year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U159	Peter Ernits, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U160	Thank you for that answer. It's like it's been said here, what happens then. As I understand it, if they have been working here for 12 to 18 months, then the whole Estonian labour law will not apply to them so far. After that, all of Estonia's labour law will be applied to them. What kind of labour rights do they lose so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U161	We did not discuss in the Commission, in detail, the rights they are losing. However, the protection measures applied to posted workers were discussed. In particular, it is an obligation to pay a different remuneration instead of the minimum wage. In addition to this obligation, it is necessary to reimburse the cost of the secondment. It is important to understand that a posted temporary agency worker is also a temporary agency worker, i.e. it can be multi-stage when it comes to providing the services of a user undertaking. Further, the restriction that a subscriber by Estonia is not only resident in Estonia is removed, it may also be resident in another Member State of the European Union, the European Economic Area or the Swiss Confederation. Employers were also subject to obligations that should provide more protection in the same way. Data on posted workers need to be updated. In addition, such a detail as adding an identity document number to databases. I also note the shortening of the right to obtain surveillance documents from seven to three years.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U162	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions. It is possible to participate in the negotiations. Is there a desire to give a speech on this bill? There's no desire. I shall consider the negotiations to be concluded and we shall examine the amendments. We have seven amendments. Amendment 1 is from the Committee on Social Affairs, the opinion of the commission: take full account. Amendment 2 is a proposal from the Social Affairs Committee, the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 3 is also from the Committee on Social Affairs; the commission has proposed that it be fully taken into account. Amendment 4 is from the Committee on Social Affairs, which proposes that it be fully taken into account. Amendment 5 is similarly from the Committee on Social Affairs; the commission has proposed that it be fully taken into account. Amendment 6 is a proposal from the Social Affairs Committee, the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 7 is also from the Committee on Social Affairs, and it is also proposed that this be fully taken into account. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to interrupt the second reading of the draft 158. We will not vote on this proposal unless there are different opinions. Second reading aborted. The deadline for tabling amendments is 29 May at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U163	We will look at the seventh item on the agenda: the law on the obligation to leave and refusal of entry initiated by the Government of the Republic and the draft law amending the law on the granting of international protection to aliens (prevention of massive immigration). Let's start with the second reading. For a presentation here by Paul Puustusmaa, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U164	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, as Signe said earlier, colleagues both in this Chamber and those behind the TVs! Yes, I am forced to bring before you the acts relating to the draft law on the obligation of departure and refusal of entry initiated by the Government of the Republic and the amendment of the law on the granting of international protection to an alien between the first reading and the second reading. I will briefly inform you or simply repeat the matter. This is a draft transposing Article 18 of the so-called Return Directive of the European Union, which allows a Member State, in a situation where an exceptional number of illegal immigrants arrive, to change the detention requirements for foreigners. It is in this sense a long-term draft that has been dealt with not only by the Ministry but also by a large number of stakeholders. We in the Riigikogu have dealt with this very thoroughly. The work in the Commission before the second reading was also in two stages. We did not just discuss the draft, which was also dealt with in detail at first reading, but we picked up at second reading and listened to the interest groups. That's true, in an interactive way. Thus, the first reading took place on 13 January 20 and the deadline for submitting amendments was 27 January. There were no amendments, only some comments submitted by the stakeholders. Like I said before, we got involved with interest groups. These were the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities and the Estonian Human Rights Centre. The most comprehensive presentation to the Commission, however, was made by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in the person of Kari Käsper. We call it the United Nations Refugee Agency to make it easier. These points and comments mainly concerned three aspects: delivery of documents, nuances to the detention of applicants for international protection and issues of safe country of origin. The sitting itself was held on 5 May. I led the sitting and the members of the committee were Kalle Grünthal, Kaja Kallas, Siim Kiisler, Andrei Korobeinik, Lauri Läänemets, Hanno Pevkur, Martin Repinski and Taavi Rõivas. You were there, like I said, including the interest groups. Kari Käsper, Commissioner's representative, said that they have discussed this draft very thoroughly. He noted that it was generally a very constructive draft and that he did not see any concerns. But he wanted to pass on some of the recommendations made by the United Nations Refugee Agency regarding the extension of deadlines and the detention of people. He suggested that, above all, the procedure itself should be simplified and speeded up, rather than extending the deadlines. Modern IT tools could be used for this purpose. When speaking about the delivery of documents, he noted that the United Nations Refugee Agency had doubts as to whether the way proposed in the draft was the most rational and rational one. It is as if the country were assuming that it would lose control of people in the event of mass immigration. For example, the draft proposes that the procedural documents of these people be published on the websites. According to the United Nations Agency for Refugees, this could be an additional option, not a normal procedure. Mr Pevkur raised this issue. He said that in his written opinion the UN Office for Refugees had made a number of proposals, mainly concerning detention, but also other proposals. He asked whether, in the current version of the bill, what we have on the table was something that the United Nations Refugee Agency believes should be changed or should be included in the draft. In addition, a representative of the United Nations Refugee Agency replied that detention of minors in the context of migration would be discussed with the Government of the Republic and the Ministry of the Interior. The recommendation of the United Nations Agency for Refugees is by law to rule this out, but the Estonian state considers that this could still be possible, although in practice it has been used very little in recent years. There are other issues that the recommendations of the United Nations Refugee Agency concern. The representative noted that there was one very important issue in this draft: the service of documents, to which I have already referred. He asked that consideration be given to whether the proposals they have brought here could be clarified and clarified in the explanatory memorandum. The proposal was therefore not so much to amend the draft law as to supplement the explanatory memorandum. Kari Käsper also pointed out that the United Nations Office for Refugees recommends that a safe country of origin assumption should be recorded, that the person should be told immediately, and that he would immediately be able to challenge this question and say that he has a special situation in which the safe country of origin principle should either apply or not apply. These are the main critical aspects that Kari Käsper came up with. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs then discussed these issues for its part as well as the Ministry. And the representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs mentioned that if such a recommendation comes from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, they will definitely specify the explanatory statement. And they have specified the explanatory statement. The Ministry of the Interior analysed the proposals made and considered that the explanations were entirely relevant and that there was no point in arguing against them. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also supported the inclusion of these explanations in the explanatory memorandum. In addition to these improvements, there were editorial changes which did not concern the content of the draft law. They didn't change anything but specify some of the places that caused the dispute. Here are two suggestions for improvement. The first concerned that the original version of the draft provides that the application must be submitted no later than 24 hours after the date of detention of the alien. The period of detention shall be calculated in hours and from the moment the alien is detained, the time limit for lodging the application should also be taken into account. It was therefore recommended to delete the word 'day' then it would be specific and harmonised with other analogous formulations. The Commission discussed this and decided to support it. The second proposal concerned a number of provisions that have already been regularised, but that have already been in another law. These are § 1 (15), § 154 and § 2 (15). These provisions were adopted by the law amending the law of the Assistant Police Officer and other laws here in the Riigikogu. The question now arose as to whether it would be reasonable to duplicate the same thing. It is not reasonable to duplicate and, in order to simplify legislation, this proposal was supported. We wanted to rule out the understudy. The commission made the following decisions: to propose that the draft be put on the agenda of the Riigikogu's plenary session by today, 20 May, to conclude the second reading and, when the second reading is completed, to put the draft on the agenda of the Riigikogu's plenary session for the third reading by 3 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U165	Thank you very much. Questions. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U166	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You mentioned that the Estonian Human Rights Centre participated in the preparation of the bill. But on what grounds is such an organisation with a completely undisclosed ideological interest, who himself acknowledges it, taking part in the shaping of Estonian politics? And if we accept it, wouldn't it be perfectly correct and proper to invite everyone, let's say, to prepare the drafts on family policy to the Foundation for the Protection of the Family and Tradition?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U167	Thank you, good questioner! Listening that way gives me the idea, yeah, why not? But in this case, if we consider that the representative of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in Northern Europe is the person in Stockholm, whose name is Kari Käsper, then obviously his involvement was reasonable. And since the Ministry had done a lot of these work before, there was no rational involvement of anyone else. And I will also add this observation that when these involved groups had worked through the draft law, the comments did not really come from anywhere. The comments came specifically from a representative of the High Commissioner for Refugees and we have examined them here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U168	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, it is possible to open negotiations. There is no wish to participate in the negotiations, in which case I shall consider the negotiations to be exhausted. Let's examine the amendments, there are two. The first amendment to draft law 110 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as the lead committee. The second amendment also comes from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the lead committee has proposed that it be fully taken into account. There are no other opinions. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 110. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U169	Let's go to the eighth item. This is the second reading of the 135th draft law amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Lauri Läänemets, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U170	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed 135 SE issues. We also involved all the stakeholders involved in the draft procedure, who were also involved at the preparatory stage of drafting the draft. There were very many of them, but no further comments were received from these stakeholders. And it was not a very long debate in the Commission. There is one amendment on our side: the proposal to delete § 1, point 32. In fact, this provision has already been introduced in the Aliens Act by the Act of 20 April amending the Act on the Assistant Police Officer and other laws. And, if paragraph 32 of § 1 is deleted, the rule of entry into force of that provision must also be deleted. Then there's nothing to enforce. The Commission also discussed whether a section could not be put into effect one year and a half later. We discussed this at the first and second Commission meetings, and we finally found in contact with the Ministry of the Interior that there was no need for this. The necessary changes to the registers and databases can be made as originally planned. On this basis, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes that the second reading be stopped, and when the second reading is completed, the Commission's proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the third reading by 3 June of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U171	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to participate in negotiations, to give speeches? You don't want to see that either. Then we will consider the negotiations to be concluded and we will examine the amendments. The amendments are one. This has been done by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and, as the lead committee, it has taken full account of it. There are no other opinions. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 135. The second reading is closed, this item has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U172	Let's take the next item on the agenda, the ninth item: Amendment of the Family Benefits Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in connection with this, the draft law amending other laws, number 185. Let's start reading it first. I'd like the Minister of Population Riina Solman here as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U173	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft law amending the Family Benefits Act and related amendments to other laws. Its aim is to improve and supplement the Family Benefits Act and the Employment Contracts Act, where some provisions have occurred in previous versions but have been erroneously omitted in future legislation. The wording of the provisions to be interpreted in various ways will also be clarified, thereby increasing legal clarity and improving the understanding of the rights and obligations of individuals. The amendments to the draft act are of a technical nature and do not create a new right with a wide-ranging impact. Here are some of the most important amendments. According to the draft, the payment of child benefit to a child over 16 years of age is specified. According to the current Family Benefits Act, a child without secondary education who is studying in comprehensive school, upper secondary school or vocational education is entitled to child benefit until he or she reaches the age of 19. Child benefit is paid retroactively for the summer months if young people continue their studies in the same year after completing comprehensive school. However, for young people who graduate from upper secondary school or vocational school and wish to study in another school or another specialty in the autumn, there is no direct legal basis today for paying child benefit for the summer months. In the previous version of the law, there were rules in this regard, but they were erroneously omitted in the course of the amendment, although the legislator did not want to change this practice in substance. The amendments proposed by the draft act are intended to restore the previous regime and ensure that child benefit is also paid for these children during the summer months. With effect from 1 July 2020, parental benefit can be suspended and continued for months, as the parent wishes, until the child reaches the age of three. The draft specifies that parental benefit may be suspended and continued only after the child reaches the age of 70 days. The amendment ensures legal clarity so that mothers who are not entitled to maternity benefit can also exercise their exclusive right to be with the child during the first 70 days of their life. This right cannot be transferred to the father later by suspension of parental benefit. Under the current regulation, mothers without maternity benefits have had the exclusive right to receive parental benefit for the first 70 days. This relates to the need to ensure the protection of the health of the woman and child during the first months of the child's life. According to the draft law, the Employment Contracts Act also provides for persons entitled to the father's supplementary parental benefit in the same way as those provided for in the Family Benefits Act, which enters into force on 1 July 2020. Under the Family Benefits Act, the spouse, adopter, guardian or parent of the care family of the father is entitled to the supplemental parental benefit of the father. The Employment Contract Act does not specify the persons entitled to paternity leave, as persons in employment or employment relationships are subject to paternity leave as a condition for applying for the father's supplementary parental benefit, it is important that the circle of persons entitled to paternity leave is included in the Employment Contracts Act. The draft will entail some additional costs for the state budget. This concerns the payment of child benefit to young people in vocational training for the summer months, but, given the overall budget for family benefits, this additional cost is marginal. The accompanying additional expenditure is covered by the budget for family benefits via the Social Insurance Board. The implementation of the changes in the organisation of work mentioned in the draft does not entail any additional costs for the state budget. The amendments to the law amending the Family Benefits Act and related amendments to other laws are planned to enter into force on 1 July 2020 or 1 April 2022, as provided for in the provision. I ask for support for this draft, i.e. these technical changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U174	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U175	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Since I'm having a little bit of a mess about what you're doing, could you give me a little enlightenment? According to the Government of the Republic Act, family policy has so far belonged to the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Prime Minister's orders are that you run certain units of the Ministry of the Interior. Family policy is not part of the administration of the Ministry of the Interior. On what basis has the government distributed these things? And second, if the law on family benefits is, I conclude that you are in front of us to manage the Minister of Population on some basis, which laws of the Ministry of Social Affairs have landed in your administration in this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U176	Mr Ossinovski, thank you for this question. As a politically interested person and as a follower of politics, I have read your reservations and your comments, not all of which have been extremely polite. For example, you have called me Mrs. Population Register. But that's it. Indeed, the population register covers a very large part of the population area of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which has been one of the first departments in the Ministry of Internal Affairs to employ more than 50 people across Estonia. But you asked how the government has shared the tasks that were part of it before I stressed: only part of the area of the Ministry of Social Affairs, which you, as Minister, have also managed. So you know exactly what happened back then at the Ministry of Social Affairs. I would remind you that ten years ago your partymate Urve Palo was in the same position as I was today. He was the Minister of Population, who then also dealt with family policy, integration and integration issues in the same way. I've freshly reviewed Urve Palo's assignments. He did a good job. Two years later, due to the economic downturn, this position was wound up. I am extremely pleased that today we have come back to the stage where we see that population processes are important in Estonia. We know that the share of Estonians in the population will decrease and the total population would decrease if we did not have immigration. It is certainly appropriate to pay attention to these issues, population processes. I will read to you my tasks: shaping population policy and family policy areas; global Estonianism; civil society and adaptation policy, or new immigrants, their adaptation to Estonian society. And there are a few other tasks. They are all confirmed by the Prime Minister's decree and distributed in this form. Excuse me, may I ask you to clarify what was your second question to which I had to answer? [[The floor shall be specified.]] As far as family policy is concerned, either I am the principal minister or I am the co-responsible. With the Ministry of Social Affairs, we work very closely and well together.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U177	Thank you very much. Jevgeni Ossinovski, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U178	First of all, I have not called you the Population Register, I have referred to an anecdotic story, the author of which was someone else. Secondly, Urve Palo was Minister of Population in a completely different version of the Act of the Government of the Republic. There were also so-called "portfolio" ministers. The current law, as amended in 2014, has a completely different logical structure, and according to it, the functions of the Ministry should overlap with those of their responsibilities. For example, the Minister for Foreign Trade has been told that he is in charge of the relevant department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. You have not been informed of the relevant department of the Ministry of Social Affairs. So that was the question you didn't answer. But if the law on family benefits is to run your so-called family benefits, I'm gonna ask you this. § 63 of the Family Benefits Act provides that the Social Insurance Board will carry out an ex-post assessment of the current Act by 1 January 2020 and submit it to the Ministry of Social Affairs for approval. I haven't found this analysis in the Ministry of Social Affairs, I don't know anything about it. Was it submitted to the Ministry of the Interior, not to the Ministry of Social Affairs, as prescribed by the law? Or has this ex-post evaluation not really been carried out?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U179	Thank you very much for the additional question. Indeed, for you it was perhaps an anecdotal story, for me it was a very sweet story. This took place at a government press conference where Arkadi Popov, full of amazement, took the floor. I didn't see anything anecdotal about a person using the word of the population register because I had just finished talking about the population register. But, of course, you can give it a meaner color than that thing was actually worth. In any case, I will also answer the question concerning the area of the Minister for Population. In fact, the population is formed according to birth and death, according to birth and death. We know that births in Estonia are less than deaths, that is, our lives are negative. And migration is also important. As we know, the Ministry of the Interior has been dealing with migration and citizenship issues for decades, which is why the area of the population is quite logically transferred to the administration of the Ministry of the Interior. A separate department has been created to monitor and design population processes. For you, this doesn't make sense. It makes perfect sense to me. But as far as the second part of your question is concerned, let us clarify where this analysis is. Thank you in any case for bringing this to your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U180	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U181	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I have such a simple technical question. As we know, the drafts will be coordinated, stakeholders will be involved and consultations will be carried out. It has been said here that the draft has been presented for coordination. But can you in any way reflect what thoughts these stakeholders expressed and how they view this bill? In my opinion, reasonable thoughts are in this bill, all of which are necessary things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U182	Thank you, Mrs Tiidus, for this question. Good focus on circumstances! Indeed, these legislative changes come from the target groups. It has been noted that in the process of amending legislation, few things have been, perhaps by accident, left out of the law. There are also things that need to be clarified. There's been some criticism here on my left, which the Minister of Population is still dealing with. The Minister of Population is dealing with what maybe the Ministry of Social Affairs should have dealt with in its time, but did not arrive because of the overload. This directly affects people, families, children, young mothers, aspects that are very important to them. For example, it has taken several coalitions to calculate parental benefit from two and a half years to the three-year accounting period. Women have constantly pointed out that the situation is humiliating to them. In two and a half years, we often do not have children in succession, and now we are very close to taking this step. Such processes, i.e. directly target groups and interest groups, we deal with each day.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U183	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I would now ask for a co-rapporteur, or if such a term is no longer used, the second rapporteur is Priit Sibula, member of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U184	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Social Affairs discussed a draft just submitted by the Minister last Monday, 11 May, where this relatively technical draft was presented by the Minister and by Merlin Murumets, adviser to the Department of Population and Family Policy at the Ministry of the Interior. These technical changes that we have discussed are due to the fact that some aspects of the legislative changes have been overlooked and, for this reason, at some point, some people have not received family allowances. We will try to remedy these shortcomings with this draft. But I am talking about what happened in the Commission, and not about the draft itself, which has just been presented to us. We have a question in the Commission that the draft provisions are planned to enter into force in two stages: 1 July 2020 and 1 April 2022. We wanted to know why Paragraph 1 (2) of the future Act only enters into force on 1 April 2022. We received the answer that this is a technical change resulting from the Supreme Court decision. The Supreme Court's decision has come into force. The decision has been registered in the Official Journal of the State, in this version, which will enter into force on 1 July 2020. And since the numbering of the sections of the Family Benefits Act will change in the version that will enter into force in 2022, the State Gazette itself will no longer be able to amend the Act which will enter into force in 2022. Changes must be made by hand in the form of amendments to legislation of a technical nature. My fellow Members in the Commission also asked about the clarification of the rule on the suspension of parental benefit: how many women it is that the parental benefit will be paid during the maternity and maternity leave period. We received a reply from the Councillor that this was a change in the interests of legal clarity. It is still the case that women who are entitled to maternity benefit and those who do not have this right are entitled to 70 days of parental benefit. It is important that families do not have the wrong expectation that the mother will stop her benefit before the child reaches 70 days of age and then the father will immediately be able to take her parental benefit. Even in families where the mother does not receive maternity benefit, the father cannot take parental benefit until the child reaches 70 days. Colleagues raised the question of a planned change to change the conditions for granting parental benefit in the event of unemployment. How is it controlled that the crisis has led to unemployment? It is not possible to draw a 'final conclusion' as to why a person's contract of employment has been terminated. The simple goal is that families should not suffer from unemployment. The question was also whether this provision could be abused. Well, it is likely that since maternity benefit is calculated on the basis of a longer period of income before the birth of the child on the basis of nine months in advance of conception, it is not possible to adjust the data afterwards. As a general comment, the Minister also indicated that, in addition to what is currently in the draft, there will be further amendments to the draft, which will certainly be discussed by the Commission. They relate to parental benefits for successive births and to the extension of this period from 2.5 years to 3 years, and the waiting period for maintenance support could also be shortened, and one of the issues is the granting of parental benefits for unemployment. We have a question in the Commission that the draft came to us, but it is already known that changes are being made. It was such a more general concern. But it is clear that these changes relate partly to the fact that we have just come out of an emergency, a very difficult situation. Now it makes sense for us to do everything in our power as quickly as possible so that planning children, receiving parental benefit and the financial situation of families do not suffer. We want to do our best to enable families to reasonably grow, plan, deliver their future generation. This debate took place in the Commission and the fact that I am here before you is not random, but the Commission has decided that we will support the completion of the first reading of the draft, direct it to the Chamber today and appoint me rapporteur. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U185	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no questions for you. Do the representatives of the political groups want to make speeches? There is no call desire, so we will not open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 185. And the first reading is over. The deadline for tabling amendments is 3 June at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U186	Next item, number ten: Draft Amendment to the Citizenship Act § 13, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, with number 147. Let's start reading it first. I would like to ask Evgeni Ossinovski, member of the Riigikogu, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U187	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will introduce you to the draft initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which consists of exactly two sentences, is very simple. And since the bill number 58, which has only recently been processed in the Riigikogu, hopefully this debate and discussion will be sufficiently familiar to most colleagues. Namely, s. On 17 February the Act amending the Citizenship Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic, entered into force in the Riigikogu in January, aimed very well and which we Social Democrats fully support. Namely, it is desirable that those children who are born in Estonia and whose family has a long-term relationship with the Estonian state and society, i.e. whose ancestors have lived here at least since 20 August 1991, will receive Estonian citizenship without further requirements, i.e. without examination, and they will be able to grow as Estonian citizens as Estonian children. I will not go into too much discussion here as to why this is necessary. But various studies have shown that children who grew up as citizens...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U188	Wait a minute! Kalle Grünthal is giving a signal.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U189	Could you speak up a little bit? There's a very bad hearing back here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U190	I don't know what to do with these microphones.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U191	You need to talk a little louder. These microphones are so rigged that the person who talks on this site can be heard well.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U192	Long people will be badly heard. Okay, I'm gonna try and talk a lot harder. But you see, my colleague Stone doesn't like it again. However, coming back to the subject, indeed, citizenship studies in many countries have found that the identity of citizens is dependent on whether or not the child is growing as a citizen in the country. The fact that all Estonian children can grow here as Estonian citizens will certainly contribute to the achievement of broader integration policy objectives. Citizenship policy in Estonia has been relatively such, say, politically polarising and, in substance, one of Europe's most conservative. At the same time, there has been some common consensus through the formations that if the ideological difference between political parties and politicians on the issue of adult citizenship is beautiful and it exists in society, then it has so far been easier to seek a common sense with regard to children's citizenship. It is from the point of view that the next generation could have grown as Estonian citizens, whether the parents made any choice. If you look at the changes that have been made in the Citizenship Act in Estonia, these liberalisation proposals have specifically affected children. Once, 1998 was perhaps the year, if I remember correctly, the possibility of children with non-citizens' children, i.e. those with grey passports, being granted citizenship on request, was legalised. In 2016, a number of changes were legalised and adopted in 2014, which also concerned children's citizenship. For example, the same so-called grey pass children automatically acquired Estonian citizenship; they did not have to apply for it. In the same year, minors were allowed to remain double citizens or multiple citizens until the age of 18. This was due to one particular case that I was dealing with back in 2013. One of Kohtla-Järve's girls had to lose Estonian citizenship, as he also took the citizenship of the Russian Federation. This type of change has been made here over time. The next logical step, which had already been recorded in the coalition agreement during the previous government, is that children who have been born as third-country nationals in the Republic of Estonia and who have a long-term relationship with the Estonian state and society could already have Estonian citizenship as children so that they can grow as citizens here. These children are predominantly citizens of the Russian Federation. The majority of third-country nationals who have lived in Estonia since at least 1991 are citizens of the Russian Federation. This is a real, factual picture in Estonia. This step, which we really wanted to take in the previous government, was that nearly 7 000 children would have received Estonian citizenship from birth on request and in such a way that they would actually have been citizens of the Russian Federation after birth, but mostly Estonia would also give them the opportunity to obtain Estonian citizenship. And then, when they turn 18, they should give up the citizenship of the Russian Federation. Why is that? Because before that the Russian Federation, in accordance with § 19 (3) of the Citizenship Act, does not exempt children of its own citizens from the citizenship of the Russian Federation. This is the actual situation. Then the law was not passed, the law was prepared, but it was not passed, because in one coalition party the immediate chairman and the agreements that had been concluded were no longer in force. The new government is much more, let us say, the right, and this agreement has no longer been made. However, as a positive outcome, it was agreed that 1,300 children could have such an opportunity. There was only one additional condition for having only children whose parent is a citizen of the Russian Federation and the other has a grey passport. Those who have both parents from the Russian Federation, and they are mostly in this target group for children of third-country nationals, would not be able to. But all right, $1,300 is still better than nothing. And then, when this procedure began, it became clear that an additional point has been included in the government's draft, which practically causes this amendment to lose its meaning. In order to obtain Estonian citizenship on these grounds, proof must be provided to the Estonian state that you have been exempt from the citizenship of another country. But in 90% of cases, they are children from the Russian Federation who cannot provide such proof, because the laws of the Russian Federation do not allow them to withdraw from the Russian Federation. And its practical consequence, as has been said then, is that, on the one hand, the state gives citizenship to these Estonian children as a positive gesture, but in reality, let us say, as I have mentioned, a group of counterfeit citizenship. You submit an application, it will be processed, the Government of the Republic decides that this child will become an Estonian citizen, but practically he or she will be placed on a waiting list until he or she reaches the age of 18. Because in order to actually obtain Estonian citizenship in order to obtain an Estonian passport, a person must provide proof that he or she has been released from the Russian Federation's nationality, but the Russian Federation does not issue such a certificate to the child. As a result, this child will not become an Estonian citizen. The basic objective of children to grow as Estonian citizens is not met. And despite the criticism, the government stood firm. No amendments were made and the law entered into force on 17 February in precisely this form. We then immediately tabled our amendment, which basically has the one and only idea: to remove this insatiable provision. These families are unable to comply with this provision; they cannot provide proof that these children are exempt from citizenship in another country. We would continue to want the country to treat these third-country nationals equally with others. In general, double citizenship is allowed for minors and should also be allowed for children who would benefit from Estonian citizenship on this basis in a simplified manner. This would not create any fundamental change in citizenship policy. Already, multiple citizenship is legalised and permitted for minors in accordance with § 3 (1) of the Citizenship Act. By the time they reach the age of 18, these same children should make that choice on their own. It is believed that they will renounce the citizenship of the Russian Federation, and remain Estonian citizens. If they don't, the problem of multiple citizenship will be resolved in other ways. The second sentence in this draft says that we would like to apply it retroactively from the 17th day when these earlier amendments entered into force. In the Commission, we discussed this draft briefly. The Government of the Republic has written a long opinion on this. There is not much to mention in that opinion, apart from the fact that it is a matter of political decision. And indeed it is a matter of political decision; there is absolutely no doubt about that. As the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior confirmed, Estonia has still not joined the international conventions on reducing citizenshiplessness. In this sense, we are sovereign in shaping our citizenship policy; there is no doubt about that. But there hasn't been any argument about that. The argument has been whether this type of change is reasonable, whether it is justified and whether it is a positive signal that we are treating all these children as our children, or whether it is creating certain differences. Only a few of them become Estonian citizens, but the majority are told that it is nice that you applied, but now wait until you turn 18. And if the Citizenship Act does not change during this period, then maybe you will become an Estonian citizen. One of the most interesting details of the Commission's debate was that when I asked Mrs Koidu Bee, who represented the Ministry of the Interior, how many requests had been made for simplified citizenship for children on the basis of this amendment that entered into force on 17 February ♪ no special situation came up a month later, and the law has only entered into force ♪ then she replied that the number was 9. The applications have been submitted in 9 cases, with a total of 1300 children in this target group. But, well, it's in the early stages, maybe it'll catch up. It is noteworthy that of these nine there are two requests from Ukrainian citizens. If they receive a positive response, these children will indeed have the opportunity to become an Estonian citizen, as the citizenship of Ukraine can be renounced. Seven children are children of citizens of the Russian Federation, which means that they do not actually receive Estonian citizenship. I find it very ugly that we behave like this as a country. If we have said that we want these children to become Estonian citizens, then we should still create a legal order that actually gives them Estonian citizenship. That is what my draft will allow, and I am asking for it to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U193	Thank you very much. Kalle Grünthal, question please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U194	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm gonna put aside all emotions and political views, and I'm just gonna focus on legal. You have indicated in your draft explanatory memorandum and in today's speech that § 19 (3) of the Citizenship Act of the Russian Federation does not allow minors to give up their citizenship. Unfortunately, you have rejected the provisions of § 19 (2), § 24 (2) and § 25 (5) of the same law of the Russian Federation, which state the possibilities of giving up the citizenship of the Russian Federation. This can be done on the basis of an application. And according to Estonian law, according to Russian law, the child is a person with limited capacity and in principle acts on behalf of the child's parent. So there is, in fact, an opportunity to give up Russian citizenship, and I think that you are simply misleading the honourable Riigikogu a little with your bill. And my question is, why are you doing this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U195	Thank you, Mr Grünthal. You have stood out very well by taking the floor with courage on matters where your competence is very limited. And this is one of those areas. Indeed, the Russian Federation Citizenship Act allows a child to leave the Russian Federation's nationality if he or she joins his or her parent in the citizenship of another country. Unlike, for example, an Iranian country which does not allow it, who considers it a treason for the surrender of Iranian citizenship, the Russian Federation Citizenship Act allows it to do so. However, in the present case, the child would enter the citizenship of another country in such a way that his or her parents would not enter the nationality of the same country, and this is not allowed by the Russian Federation. That is indeed the case. It's hard to read in the text of the law, I admit, but it's actually there. I've checked it, and I've asked the Police and Border Guard Board about it, who will confirm it. Such evidence shall not be issued. And I also checked it with the consul of the embassy of the Russian Federation when I dealt with this issue in 2013. I've been working on this for a long time. Indeed, there was a case at the time where Kohtla-Järve's girlfriend Kristina found herself in the situation that the state began to take away Estonian citizenship from her, because her father took citizenship from the Russian Federation and took citizenship from her daughter. The girl wanted to remain an Estonian citizen, the family wanted the girl to remain an Estonian citizen, they went to the consulate and asked for the child to be freed from the citizenship of the Russian Federation. The Embassy of the Russian Federation said that we would not issue such evidence because, in accordance with § 19 (3) of the Citizenship Act of the Russian Federation, the Russian State does not exempt children from Russian citizenship in such a way that the parents remain citizens of the Russian Federation, but the child moves to another country. This bill concerns both this case and those cases where the parents are covered by a grey passport. So it's a complicated subject. But I wish you the strength to get into it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U196	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U197	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good performer! We know that there are nearly 70,000 people without nationality in Estonia. This is more people than in Narva, Estonia's third largest city, considerably more, 15,000 more. We're only talking about 1,300 people today. However, a few weeks ago, we all read to our great surprise that solving the issue of citizenship is a major success story of the current government. However, we know that coalition parties are unlikely to support this solution, even if it is currently proposed by you. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U198	Yeah, a citizen's political success story... In my opinion, this cannot be said of current or previous governments, if I follow my understanding of how citizenship policy should be structured in Estonia. However, as has been said, Estonian politics have had ideological and legitimate different opinions on this issue and, unfortunately, a sufficient joint part has not really emerged. Which, in my opinion, does not mean that if there is no broader agreement to revise citizenship policy, then the'smaller steps' may also be squirmed or essentially omitted. And now, however, we are in a situation where basically it has been agreed that 1300 children will be granted Estonian citizenship. The same law that was passed clearly says so. Why, then, do you have to add a limit so that 1,200 of these 1,300 children do not receive it? This reason was formulated by a coalition ambassador who is not from the Centre Party. He told me among myself that this is exactly the case: our aim was to make the smallest number of children possible to become an Estonian citizen by fulfilling this promise to the Coalition Treaty. This is probably an expression of the balance of certain forces within the coalition. But, of course, political logic must be taken into account, political reality must be taken into account. On the other hand, however, we must realise that we are talking about real people on a very sensitive issue. The person understood, as he was told, that now you can come and take Estonian citizenship for your child. And then he goes to take it, but he realizes he can't get it. But next to the neighbor, who happens to have Ukrainian citizenship, she gets her baby. Why is that? No one can explain. It is not the child's fault that he cannot give up this other nationality. It is even this important nuance that you may know that if a citizen of the Russian Federation is born with a child in Estonia, even if this family does not go to the Russian embassy to get a Russian passport, this child has no connection to the Russian state, he does not have a Russian Federation passport, he has no other documents, he has never been to Russia, then the Estonian state considers him to be a citizen of the Russian Federation after birth. Even if he does not have any documents from the Russian Federation, he is still automatically a citizen of the Russian Federation at birth, and he cannot give up this status in any way. This particular person doesn't even have anything to throw away, he can't slash his passport at anything! But according to the laws of the Russian Federation, the Police and Border Guard Board considers him a citizen of the Russian Federation, which he basically de jure, it is impotentia. In this situation, he goes to the Police and Border Guard Board and says that I am not a citizen of the Russian Federation, which I am a Russian citizen, I have no passport, nothing, I have not gone to the Russian embassy to apply for a document. However, he is told that we think you are, and as long as you do not bring the paper, that you have given up what you do not have, you will not become an Estonian citizen until then. That's an ugly story!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U199	Thank you. No further questions for you. I would like to ask Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U200	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good afternoon. Draft 147 was discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on Tuesday 12 May 2020. Since we had a rather similar draft, or rather exactly the same, draft within the Commission a few months before that, there was no very big debate on the content in the Commission. However, the representative of the Government of the Republic introduced the government's opinion, which was negative. The Government of the Republic found that it did not support this draft, but in the course of the debate we all came to the conclusion that this was a political choice and was not one or the other a bad or a good choice. As my good colleague, Mr Evgeni, mentioned, we have examined how the implementation of the law on the change of previous citizenship has succeeded. We have learned that nine applications have been submitted, including one good family in Narva, whose three children have been requested citizenship. Basically, that's how he stayed. The Commission took the following decisions: firstly, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda for today, 20 May and two, to appoint me rapporteur. These decisions were consensual and consensual, and the decision to reject the draft proposal was also consensual. All members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs voted in favour of this, but since it is a draft, not an amendment, this draft is in this Chamber today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U201	Questions. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U202	Thank you. Honourable waitress! It is clear from the Commission's minutes that there was a consensus against the actual granting of citizenship to children by the ambassadors from the EKRE, the Fatherland, the Reform Party and also the Centre Party. If the first three parties have long been ousting against the Russian-speaking population, do you and Martin Repinski give reasons at the committee meeting, why are you opposed to a thousand Estonian children actually becoming Estonian citizens? Why do you not want us to have more Estonian citizens?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U203	Thank you. If you mean why the Social Democrats did not vote in favour, then the reason is that the Socialist representative left the sitting before the vote. But if the question is why one or the other of the ambassadors voted in favour or against, there has been no specific motivational speech by the ambassadors. We did, as I mentioned, discuss this issue both during the debate on the 58 amendments to the draft law and at this sitting. And we came to the conclusion that, as far as citizenship is concerned, when a person becomes an adult, he himself makes this choice, unless a particular country exempts him from citizenship in that country at a time when he is a child, as is possible in the case of Ukraine. I hope I answered your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U204	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U205	Thank you. You also voted against this bill in committee. Well, you can see why it's like that. But if you could decide for yourself if it were up to you, would you rather that all nine children receive Estonian citizenship immediately, or would you prefer, in an ideal political situation, to have two and seven on the waiting list? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U206	Thank you. As I said in answering the previous question, this is not a psychoanalyst's appointment. In the Commission, we did not discuss the thinking of every human being. But if you ask me personally, of course I am in favour of children born in Estonia being granted Estonian citizenship. And I also stress that they can, unless they change their mind. As a representative of the liberal worldview, I appreciate quite the fact that a person can make a choice on his own rather than subject to the choice of his parents. It's a value in itself. But I hope that these children, the seven children who do not receive Estonian citizenship until they are 18 years old, still make a choice in favour of Estonian citizenship. So I hope the end is good, all good.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U207	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U208	Good President! Good waitress! I know that this issue was not discussed clearly in the Commission sitting, but your position is nevertheless important. This mother of three children in Narva now finally realizes that the passports that she receives for her three children remain on hold for 15, 16, 17 years, as long as the children are 18 years old. In the meantime, they have completed comprehensive school and passed the social studies exam and the Estonian language test. And then, it is possible that they will become Estonian citizens if they want to. But the neighbor, who is Ukrainian citizenship, will have passports for her children, which she will be able to implement tomorrow. Does this Russian mother really think we have a great country? Do you believe that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U209	Thank you. First of all, I don't have any information. Could have been dad. But I think I've already answered that question. If I had a choice, I'd give that citizenship right now. At the same time, I highly appreciate that these children, who may not be small anymore, maybe they've been around 17 years, can make that choice for themselves. I think it's a value in itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U210	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U211	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm trying to explain this difference to you in a very simple example. If you imagine that you will adopt a law that will allow an electric scooter for each child. But then you tell some kids you're gonna get your electric scooter when you're 18 years old. And let's say that this kid is 3 years old and he has to wait 15 years for his electric scooter. Then his parents probably have this feeling that maybe what he read in Stolits wasn't quite accurate, the politicians of the Central Party promised him something else. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] But my question is, have you ever thought that if you don't give real citizenship a real passport to these kids, maybe you'll do some sort of printout from Stolitsa? You can print it out or cut it out, there's a picture of Jüri Ratas and Mikhail Kõlvart and maybe a picture of you. At least that would be something to put on the shelf? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U212	Thank you very much for your question. First of all, I wouldn't compare Estonian citizenship to an electric motor, but there is a certain point in this comparison. On the other hand, I wouldn't give an electric motor to a three-year-old. Its speed may also be 40 kilometres per hour depending on the model. And the reason these kids don't get electric drives is because age is likely to increase responsibility and understanding of things. Personally, I think that when a child is 3 years old, things become different than when he's 18 years old and he's not a child anymore. That is why, as I said in reply to the three previous questions, it is possible that there is also a positive side of this regulation. But to tell you the truth, we didn't discuss electric drives in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U213	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U214	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Of course, it is hypocritical what the Social Democrats are saying here: for the three-year-olds, an electric shockwheel, while an adult person must not choose whether or not to buy a pear-flavoured e-cigarette fluid. [[Summing and laughing in the hall.]] Let's think about it the other way around. We are changing the law on our citizenship, we are giving these young people citizenship. In this regard, do we take away the free choice of giving up Estonian citizenship against Russian citizenship, for example, when they receive 18 and find that they want to respect their parents' decision, which they made at the time when the child was not of age?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U215	Thank you. If this Estonian citizenship is so-called conditional, the child does not have to give it up. He just picks one that he likes. I think that the task of the Estonian state is to achieve that the child chooses Estonian citizenship. I am of the opinion that the more Estonian citizens who have so voluntarily made this choice, the better for the Estonian state and for them. It is up to us and our country to ensure this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U216	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U217	I'll continue with the comparison I brought earlier. When I read the law, I understand that right now some children can get an electric drive or citizenship right away, but the other kids have to wait until they're of age. Don't you see injustice here? And if you see, why are you resisting this injustice? In my opinion, if basically children can get electric drives or citizenship, then let all children have them. Why do you object? And I didn't understand your answer. He said, like, it's right that some kids don't get citizenship right now, that some people get it when they're 18 and they know how to appreciate it. So they could have been given citizenship too soon. I didn't understand your answer, please specify!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U218	Thank you for your question. My answer was that both approaches have their pros and cons. I was trying to explain these pros and cons. But when it comes to electric drive, I can't see the pros if a three-year-old kid gets it. With regard to nationality, we concluded in the Commission's debate that this was a political choice, and this political choice led us to a compromise, which was the draft 58 that had become the law. This allows children born in Estonia to apply for Estonian citizenship, which they receive when they give up the citizenship of another country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U219	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U220	Thank you for the floor. Good waitress! I understand that the Ministry of the Interior has justified this impossible requirement to renounce Russian citizenship in such a way that the subsequent entry into force of the decision granting citizenship will help to mitigate the risk of a potential value conflict arising from multi-citizenship, that a child of an Estonian citizen will exercise his or her rights on the basis of a world view, which is contrary to the fundamental values of Estonian society when he or she becomes an adult. Can you explain to me, or did you talk to the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior at the Commission about how the Ministry of the Interior, or anyone else or third, intends to verify that during the time that the child has been on the waiting list, his values are sufficiently in the same value area as the Estonian state or the authors of the bill? I understand that he will simply give up the citizenship of a third country and become a fully-fledged citizen of the Republic of Estonia if he still has some motivation by then. But how is it controlled that it has been grown according to Estonia's value space?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U221	Thank you. We did not discuss this issue of worldview in the Commission. But that risk is probably on both sides. If an 18-year-old discovers that his or her worldview does not match the principles of the Republic of Estonia, he or she may not make that choice. This may not be the course of the state, but it may also be the choice of a person to choose another nationality. And then he does not have to go through such a long procedure where he once again applies for the citizenship of a third country, which he lost when he chose Estonian citizenship. After all, this third-country nationality remains valid for him or her. So as I answered the previous questions: these choices have their pros and cons. My personal opinion is one thing; others, of course, may have another opinion on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U222	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U223	Thank you. I am asking about equal treatment in terms of constitutionality. As a general rule of § 3 of the Citizenship Act, minors are allowed to have several citizenships. Those children who, as if they were granted simplified citizenship with the amendments that entered into force in February, are not allowed this general right to have multiple citizenship as a minor. They are therefore treated differently from others in the context of multiple citizenship. I asked the Chancellor of Justice about that. The Chancellor of Justice said in this regard: 'The task of the Riigikogu is to carefully assess whether the difference between the treatment of a particular group and that of another group is justified. ' Since it is not clear from the minutes, can you tell me how the Committee on Constitutional Affairs assessed this issue of unequal treatment and what result was reached?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U224	Thank you. I must admit that, unfortunately, this has nothing to do with this particular item on the agenda, but I have examined the opinion of this Chancellor of Justice during the procedure on the 58th draft. Unfortunately, you have not given this opinion to the Commission, but there is nothing to interrupt to read it. In addition to what was said in this quote, the Chancellor of Justice drew attention to the fact that such choices are within the competence of the Riigikogu. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the President has announced a bill of number 58, and, as we have learned, nine children are already on the waiting list. My gut tells me that the potential for constitutional incision here is not very great. But at the same time, you never know, maybe someone's gonna challenge it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U225	Thank you very much. A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U226	Just in terms of procedure, I would like to point out to my colleague, Mr Korobenik, that my written question, along with the reply of the Chancellor of Justice, has been included in the draft 58 card at my request. So it's presented.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U227	Mr. Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U228	Thank you. For the sake of clarity, I will specify that it has been added after the procedure was over. As I said, this opinion was not submitted to the Commission during the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U229	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. It is possible to open negotiations. Representatives of the political groups will be able to express their views during the negotiations. The desire to negotiate has not been revealed. We have a proposal from the lead committee to reject the draft 147 at first reading. I shall put this proposal to the vote. But first, let's invite everyone to the hall. So, ladies and gentlemen, I shall put to the vote the draft proposal of the commission to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 53 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of rejecting the draft at first reading, with 9 against. The draft will fall out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U230	The next item is the draft law amending the Waste Act and the Packaging Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Let's start reading it first. Rene Koka, Minister of the Environment, please waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U231	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted a draft law amending the Waste Act and the Packaging Act to the Riigikogu. The main focus of the draft is the transposition of the provisions of the directives. More specifically, the obligations arising from amendments to the Waste Framework Directive, the Landfill Directive and the Packaging Directive will be transposed into Estonian law. Changes will be made to the Waste Act and the Packaging Act. The draft is ambitious, but the changes concern in particular requirements and measures relating to the separate collection of waste, extended producer responsibility, waste prevention, local and national waste management plans and the improvement of waste recycling. First of all, the efficiency of separate collection. By the end of 2023 at the latest, collection of bio-waste must be organised throughout Estonia. This means that in the future, all citizens and businesses must have the opportunity to transfer bio-waste separately to the waste shipper. Alternatively, composting at source is permitted, which is particularly suitable for private houses. Separate collection and removal of bio-waste will also make separate collection of other types of waste more efficient. The amendments related to improving the efficiency of separate collection also concern textiles waste, packaging waste and construction and demolition waste. According to the draft, local authorities can also grant exemptions from separate collections in their administrative territory in justified cases. Derogations, together with justification, must be provided for in the waste management plan and the waste management code. The draft bans the incineration and landfill of municipal waste collected by species. Waste collected separately must go to re-use preparation and recycling. Wastes from further processing of waste collected by category, such as sorting residues, may be disposed of or incinerated if this is a safe solution for the environment. By 2035 the landfill of municipal waste must be reduced to at least 10% of the total amount of municipal waste generated. New targets for the preparation and recycling of municipal waste for reuse and for the recycling of packaging waste are also established. In the recycling of municipal waste, we must reach 65% by 2035 and 70% by 2030 in the recycling of packaging waste. In addition, recycling targets for packaging materials shall be established by type. Further, implementing the minimum requirements for extended producer responsibility. The manufacturers of problem products and their associations, packaging companies and recycling organisations need to introduce further self-control systems. Under the Waste Framework Directive, financial management of such companies will also be audited. At the same time, the limit on the obligation to audit the packaging report will be raised from 5 to 20 tonnes, as the aim is to target the control resource specifically to those packaging companies that place on the market the bulk of the packaging. It also reduces red tape and the cost of resources for small packaging companies. Those packaging companies whose packaging records are in order must only undergo the next audit after three years. The authorised representative, the institute will also be added to the manufacturers of problem products and to packaging companies established outside Estonia, but who will place their products on the Estonian market. To this end, an authorised representative registered in Estonia must be appointed through which the producer or packaging undertaking of the problem product fulfils the obligations arising from the principle of extended producer responsibility imposed on it. The draft clarifies the wording of the liability provisions and increases the maximum possible accounting rates for movements in both the Waste Act and the Packaging Act. The fine rates to be amended concern, in particular, legal persons and will fall between a maximum of EUR 100000 and a maximum of EUR 400000. The aim is to ensure effective penalties for infringements with potentially negative environmental impacts. Firstly, the infringement must not be repaid and, under the Waste Framework Directive, the sanction must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. A new obligation is added with regard to products containing substances of very high concern, according to which actors in the supply chain will have to register information in the European Chemicals Agency database on products containing very high concern substances above 0,1% by weight. In this way, information about very dangerous substances in the supply chain will move and it will be possible to ensure safe material circulation. In addition, we are supplementing terminology as a result of the directives. The draft also provides for changes of technical nature and legal clarity, but has no environmental or economic impact. All substantive amendments to the draft relate to the implementation of the objectives of the Directives and do not go beyond the requirements of the Directives. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U232	Thank you very much, dear waitress. Now the questions. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U233	Thank you, good waitress. A very important subject! It must be acknowledged that I myself consider the collection of waste by type to be extremely important, and I have tried my best to ensure that society values it. And we all know that we are far from where we should be today. At large apartment buildings where biowaste can be delivered separately, for example, there is the smallest container for them, and it is often the emptyest, while municipal waste containers next door are full. These targets for 2030, which you have mentioned, we are honest, are not very ambitious. I'm just asking for your sense and knowledge as a minister. What should we still do to actually get there, so that most people, I don't know, 99.99% of people would give up their waste by type and take sorting seriously? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U234	Thank you. One very important aspect is information for people. Well, it may seem like the answer is, well, well, know the thing, but that's actually the answer. There are examples of this from abroad. Sweden has been one of the countries where it has been tried: when it comes to informing and involving people, the percentage of recycling goes down immediately, sorting is decreasing. Estonia has a very big step to take in this respect, precisely as regards information, and that is what we are dealing with. We certainly want to improve the information, even the same steps, that we have organised waste schools. Unfortunately, this crisis has taken away this opportunity in the meantime, but I have been to several places myself. Informing people is the number one thing that needs to go forward, the subject must continue to be kept in the picture. Secondly, the disposal of waste must be as convenient as possible, this is the next place. A person must simply be able to give away these waste. Financial measures will certainly also have an impact. The same issue of bio-waste - the disposal of bio-waste must be so much more advantageous that a person is motivated to compost them when he has a private home or to give them away, rather than put it in a mixed waste bag. So the simplest way to provide information is to create the simplest possible means to give away waste, as well as pricing. These three things are basic.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U235	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U236	Thank you. Honourable Vice President! Good minister! Huge bill, noble purpose! But I will continue on the same subject, i.e. packaging and recycling of packaging. It seems to me that there is one important thing missing in this draft: namely that the responsible party is indeed responsible for 50% of the packaging, including 50% of the sales packages, being recycled. It seems to me that the Estonian person wants to give away his packages, but today's system, where there is no place collection, does not really work. Why has this sales package been abandoned, and how is responsibility for it planned? And how can people's motivation be increased? Is that what this bill is about? And how would the incentives of recycling organisations to collect more packages also increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U237	Thank you. These are very legitimate questions, and I would like to reiterate that with this draft we are not really in the big picture to make a change in the world in waste management. This is mainly the draft transposition of directives. And as I have said earlier in this Chamber: last time the so-called codified draft, which was in the Riigikogu proceedings in 2019, did not go beyond the first reading because it was a comprehensive draft. There were many different target groups who were not satisfied with it. I took it off the table when I started working in the ministry, and we have now brought and adopted directives here in part. This concerns, for example, technical waste and other such topics. One of the main criticisms that came from more waste groups when I became Minister for the Environment was that the Ministry of the Environment had little involvement of interest groups, had little to analyse the subject. This criticism came from quite a number of places. The situation is now that we have taken up this analysis and then ordered an analysis from the World Bank of Estonia's waste management as a whole. It will be completed in the first quarter of 2021. After this analysis has been completed, we will come up with a larger waste package over the next year on how to proceed. Today, you are essentially facing a package of transpositions of directives. With the changes that result from this, we will come up in the big picture after this study. We've just taken some time off, and then we'll do the research we've been asked to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U238	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U239	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This bill, of course, includes an explanatory statement. There is a point 6, where the effects of this law are very thoroughly rewritten. I'm getting a little more specific. The proposed amendment No 5: All appropriate waste prevention options must be implemented for each activity. And now, I hope I'm not wrong here is a single sentence concerning the sea and the cleanliness of the marine environment. And it sounds like every activity needs to be considered to avoid the formation of marine litter. We know the status of the Baltic Sea, I think you know it better than I do. However, how does this law help to clean up the Baltic Sea or prevent its further pollution?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U240	Thank you. As I said, this bill is actually a draft transposition of directives. I have already mentioned, at the heart of the Waste Framework Directive, the Landfill Directive and the Packaging Directive. Its aim is not to go directly ahead with more detailed measures on the cleanliness of the Baltic Sea and progress in this area. This issue of how to move forward with them will come to the table next year, after this analysis, which will be carried out as a whole on Estonia's waste management. Everything that concerns ports and other waste problems will be on the table next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U241	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U242	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question comes from a local government perspective. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that the law will organise, make more specific the requirements relating to the separate collection of waste. It has been said, among other things, that by the end of 2023 collection of bio-waste at the site is mandatory and that since 2025 local authorities will have to organise separate collections of textile waste on their territory. The explanatory memorandum also states that the implementation of the Act entails costs for the local government unit. In particular, there is a need to restructure the work of waste plants, to build on them or to organise additional collection circles. In your report, you also pointed out that, in order for people to be collected by species, they should be made as comfortable as possible to give away waste and that opportunities should be guaranteed close to home. The Association of Cities and Municipalities has sent a number of letters yesterday, too, one came to the point that the cost side was not taken into account. Please tell me what the costs will be for the local government. And why does the bill say they're nothing? In fact, the question arises here: maybe we should give extra money to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U243	Thank you. We both know quite well that local authorities are still in the process of collecting bio-waste and transporting waste. In this sense, it is not new to the local government here. As far as the local governments' costs are concerned, the KIC provided funding for the modernisation of waste plants in the framework of various measures during the period 2014 to 2019, albeit for other waste management activities. This is exactly the same plan for the new period when the European Union's resources are in place. In the same way, measures will be developed to help local authorities modernise waste plants and to switch to a reception site for bio-waste. And it has been said before that there are 3 million euros in KIC. We plan to open the first round in June. It is designed for local authorities to set up waste collection houses at apartment buildings, buy bio-waste containers and introduce composters in scattered areas. So in this sense, it is certainly not possible to say that the local government has never been supported before. It is supported and supported in the future as well. A specific measure, that 3 million is there. The first round opens in June, I hope, and the second half towards the end of the year. There will certainly be measures in the future that will support this area and in which local governments can apply for money to meet these conditions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U244	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U245	Thank you. Dear Minister, Since this is the transposition of directives, as you have emphasised many times, could you explain a little bit about the requirements of the directives that have come from them into our law? I conclude from your attitude that we are taking over the minimum prescribed by the directives. Or are there some provisions with which Estonia shows greater ambition? You specifically said that we would not change the world, I think, was something like that. However, I found a very victorious press release from Siim Kiisler of 27 December 2017 where he was very proud to have had very powerful goals set out. This is a very important area where we need to change the world. Has the current government lost high ambitions in the field of environment and waste, unlike in the case of Siim Kisler?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U246	Thank you. I'll say it's definitely not. Siim Kisler spoke the right thing when he said in his day that it was necessary to change the world very strongly. As I said today, we have taken directives out of this last law dealt with in 2019 and brought them into the process because time is pressing. But since one of the main arguments of the parties has been that too little analysis has been made of the entire waste management in Estonia, we will come up with a draft amending the world or amending the Estonian waste management after the World Bank has carried out an analysis of the Estonian waste management in the first quarter of next year. Taking into account also what it says, we are going to come here with the following drafts on how to proceed with the Estonian waste management.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U247	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U248	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, My question is not changing the world at all, rather practical. This has been asked directly by me, as a member of the Committee on the Environment, and I have not been able to answer. This concerns a narrow issue, the management of bio-waste on farms and other private homes. The question is whether these people have to apply for some sort of special permit and prove that they can compost themselves in the corner of the garden, or whether they believe their word nakedly that they have looked at their address and seen that they really - really - have every chance of doing so.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U249	Thank you. However, this process is likely to look like a municipal waste specialist must circle the area once and see who wants to start handing away the waste from the container and who has a composter or who otherwise wants to compost themselves. These people might start composting. Apparently, there's still some kind of circle going on in the municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U250	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U251	Thank you very much. I'll come back to my question. I'm a hundred percent in agreement with the importance of notification. I just took part in an ETV+ program and showed you very precisely how to do it. But next to notification, I'd say another keyword: role model. When I became a district manager in northern Tallinn, I discovered that we had old trash bins under the table in our offices, plastic bags inside. We finished this system and created waste collection sites in the corridors, so people started collecting waste by type. And it worked very well. I do not know if you are aware that in the Riigikogu building where the members of the Riigikogu and the staff of the Chancellery are working, there is such an old school garbage can with an old school plastic bag under my desk. No large-scale collection of species I've never seen in this building. Would it be useful to set an example if a state-of-the-art institution such as the Riigikogu started to collect and give away waste by type strictly enough? What is your opinion as Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U252	There's no way I can say this is a bad idea. Absolutely! This is a very good idea and, in setting an example, this area must certainly be developed. And I'm going to say so much that the Ministry of the Environment has done a mapping of how we have things in the ministries. I have to admit, we have things well in the U.S. Department building and also in the Ministry of Rural Affairs. Other institutions need help. And we will certainly also take the Riigikogu into a group of institutions to look at. Absolutely right, let's start by example. I'll support it with two hands.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U253	Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U254	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! During the drafting of the draft, was there a debate on the exemption of proper garbage harvesters as a motivator from the waste collection tax or, more importantly, on the payment of a small premium to them? Was that the subject on the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U255	Thank you. This issue has also been briefly discussed, but I come back to the fact that it is not this draft, it is the draft transposition of directives. The debate on these proposals will come next year, when the World Bank has carried out a study on the state of Estonia that I have mentioned. Then let's see. But there's one thing we've already put into work. One thing that motivates local governments is that through KIC, an environmentally friendly local government measure is open. Whoever has set the best example will receive a €50,000 bonus to better address environmental issues. We were wondering how to motivate local governments, and we found that for some smaller municipalities, it was a very large amount of money. Maybe not that big for the big locality. But you have to start somewhere, and I think it's also one way to motivate the local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U256	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U257	Honourable Vice President! Good minister! I hope you don't put garbage in our eyes with this lead story.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U258	Wait a minute, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U259	I am very sorry, my question is indeed procedural, addressed to the honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, the President of the sitting. I would like to ask whether the law of the Riigikogu on the home and working procedures of the Riigikogu is compatible if, as a result of this conversation with the Minister and related to the Riigikogu building, a member of the Riigikogu would propose to the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu to raise the issue of sorting waste on the Board of the Riigikogu. Can such a proposal be made?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U260	Members of the Riigikogu can make all kinds of proposals to everyone. Now, please, Yoko Alender!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U261	Thank you. I'll tell Raimond first that we already have sorting boxes by the diner. I suggest you speak to the office. But here's my question. We do not really seem to be able to clarify the procedure for this draft on packaging. My first question, who is still responsible for fulfilling this target, was also left unanswered. Is this person in charge of the law? And what could increase the motivation of TVO, or recovery organisation, to sort more? But I'm going to ask you about bio-waste. Does the bill in any way reflect whether it is preferable for a person to compost himself, as Saaremäe did, or whether biowaste is still being collected and in a modern way to produce biogas or something like that? Are there any such guidelines included in the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U262	Thank you. This draft creates the possibility of composting. I'm not gonna tell people you're gonna have to give away bio-waste. It's about creating an opportunity. If you cannot compost, you can give away someone who can compost and does not want to give away, it can be done if composting is as it should be.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U263	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U264	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The last question goes on. Yes, of course, the LAs have been supported in the past, and my question was that the bill says that circles need to be expanded, waste plants need to be expanded. Will there still be grants for this? I'm glad to hear it's going on. But my question. The draft states that the law gives the Environmental Inspectorate the power to exercise administrative supervision over the legality of administrative acts relating to the management of waste by all local authorities. Does such a requirement arise from the directive, and why is such a requirement written down? In fact, as far as I know, the Ministry of Justice has the right to exercise administrative supervision over the legislation of the local government. I think that's enough. Do you not think that this is over-emphasised if we are now making the legislation of a democratically elected local government council monitor the officials of a state office? In my opinion, this is a bit too much interference in the autonomy of the local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U265	Thank you. The Environmental Inspectorate must supervise this area under the same conditions as the Ministry of Justice is currently doing. Monitoring can only be carried out on the basis of administrative legislation and verification that the requirements are met. Is it somehow restricting or harassing the local authorities? I don't think so. As I have said before, there are very different levels of local governments, where there are all very well, where there are waste specialists, where this problem is felt and understood, but there are also local governments, where there are no waste specialists, which say that we have no problems with it. There's gotta be some surveillance. And I don't think it's any kind of harassment or that we don't trust the local government. I think that makes sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U266	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U267	Thank you. I ask about what Estonia has not done. If it were 10-15 years ago, we were in a much better position than many European countries. The first decisions relating to the covered packaging and several other activities were actually very good. But we've actually been a lot behind lately. I note that Italy, for example, which was behind us, has already reached 50%, Lithuania, too, has reached 50% by sorting. Having been responsible for this area for a year, can you in any way sum up who did not do what, that we are today in a position to distort statistics to show that we have fulfilled our commitments? And we'll order some more research to figure out what to do in a situation where others have done these things a long time ago. When and what should have been done?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U268	Thank you. As far as the assertion of the distortion of statistics is concerned, no, we do not distort anything. Changing the statistics was completely legal, allowed action. This isn't about any distortion. This has been done by several countries before Estonia. But what has not been done? I am quite frankly saying that this is an area involving very many different parties. I've met a lot of parties since I took office. Compromises are very persistent to come, and it has also been one of the reasons why we are discussing this here today why this law was not passed in the Riigikogu last time. The interest groups it concerns are so many. That's one of the reasons why things are so. The Ministry of the Environment has criticised various organisations for not having carried out one single major analysis. Now we have undertaken this analysis better late than never. The alternative would have been that we would have come back here with the Waste Act and tried to force it politically through, but that's the idea I pulled off the table and went the way of inclusion. The serious aim of the last year has been to involve, negotiate and try to find solutions that are reasonable. But this is a difficult area indeed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U269	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U270	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I have such a simple question: you are always talking about transposing directives and there seems to be other things, but what does it mean for ordinary people? What does he have to consider? How much can it cost, or what does it have to do more? Has it sounded quietly that there might be a waste tax? Have these things been discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U271	Thank you. These things aren't on this package. Discussions on their possible waste taxes and other matters, including those mentioned by you, will all come after this analysis, which will be completed next year in the first quarter. But directly here, there is one cross-cutting issue of biowaste. In the big picture, I would rather see that the cost of giving away municipal waste in the future will rise rather than fall. There's no point in creating an illusion that it's the other way around. But it is the collection of bio-waste that gives the person who wants to compost the opportunity to optimize the cost of giving away municipal waste. It's cheaper.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U272	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U273	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned earlier that it is very important to inform people. It affects how they behave with their household waste, where they put it, how they sort it, etc. It's really part of the culture. If this directive is now in place in Estonia, how much is it supposed to cost to make such a positive change in information and behaviour? Do you have any idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U274	Thank you. I certainly don't know the amount right now. I have to find it, and I'll send it to you when we know. However, the Ministry's budget has still been and still has the means of communication. The communication process is being carried out all the time. The Ministry has also done a variety of waste sorting disks and other things in the past. But we have a sort of intermediate phase right now, and there's no point in doing half things if we really don't know how things are going to end up. Finding a big picture of waste management is the subject of next year. It needs to be argued and clarified. But if you want, I'll take this number out and send you what amount we're forecasting.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U275	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U276	Thank you. Good minister! It seems to me that we are creating some kind of legal confusion. In this quite large law we are talking about granting some additional rights to the Environmental Inspectorate, but we are in parallel with the process of merging the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate. Aren't you afraid we're going to get a real legal confusion when we adopt this law? This law that has been passed must begin to be amended immediately, because another law will change the subjects of this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U277	That's a perfectly good point. However, the deadline for adopting this directive is 5 July and we simply cannot go any further with it. And, if you approve the draft formation of the Common Authority, if I remember correctly, 38 legal acts really need to be amended. So, yes, if the Riigikogu approves the creation of a joint office, then we must come back to this document and change it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U278	Heiki Kranich, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U279	By quoting the classics, perhaps referring to what has been said earlier, I say that this is a very large law. When I read this law, I see a lot of additional obligations being imposed on all market participants there. And they all have an effect. I am not only talking about the financial impact here, but also about the other indirect effects that are being assessed: all kinds of squabbling, sorting, etc. I'm asking for your personal assessment. I have such a slight hesitation that, following the adoption of this law, we will not reduce but increase the footprint that we leave for the environment. Don't you have that kind of fear?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U280	No, I don't have that kind of fear. If I read this explanatory note and look at this law, there are clear indications that the local government can make a lot of decisions. If it is more sensible to deal with one thing or another in a neighbouring municipality, for example, construction and demolition waste, these options will remain. If there were no such possibility, I would agree that collecting some of the waste will cost more than collecting it over and over again. But right now, I think that's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U281	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U282	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I'm glad you've come here with this bill. Before Jevgeni Ossinovski asked who to look at, that a number of important provisions had not been implemented in the past. I say that I am sure that the end of the previous Riigikogu, which failed to adopt this law, was the end of the previous Riigikogu. Many of these provisions were included in this draft. But my question is: what do you predict, how does this bill, when it becomes a law, affect the cost of disposing of mixed municipal waste for ordinary households? Is there any way it's gonna change that? Do we have a price increase or about the same level in the case of new procurements?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U283	Thank you. This does not come directly from this law, but it is quite likely that we will still have an increase in the price of mixed municipal waste at one point. We want it or we don't, it's one of the motivations for people. I understand it's very unpopular, and maybe tomorrow we'll read in the papers that the Environment Minister announced there's gonna be a big increase in the price of garbage. At the same time, when I have met them all over Estonia in different places, people have said that they are really not currently motivated to sort mixed municipal waste. There is 1.60 of this 200-litre barrel in some area, somewhere around 3.70 and perhaps some places also EUR 8.9. People don't deny it. But there is no doubt that the Minister can be hit hard for this: how is it possible that there will be an increase in the price of mixed municipal waste in the future?? But I'd rather think it would come anyway. But I hope that this will be compensated by separate removals of bio-waste and a reduction in mixed municipal waste. If this happens one day, hopefully the best solution would be for us to start receiving waste on a weight basis. It's mostly by volume today, by containers. But the future will show. I'd rather think a little bit of a price's gonna go up.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U284	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U285	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I will move on from the question of Mr Üllar: biodegradable waste. Who's controlling it? You said it could be done by a municipal waste specialist or someone like that. But how do we set the rules? If one plot has a place in one corner to collect biodegradable waste, which maybe smells quite enough, collects flies? Maybe the other neighbor has a barbecue corner or a kid's playground. How is it regulated?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U286	Thank you. The answer is that the correct compiler is not what you described. These composters can't, figuratively speaking, have a 200-litre barrel cut off somewhere and show a local government representative that you can see, here's my compiler. Like I said before, KIC is planning to support the acquisition of composters. And these composters have to meet the requirements.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U287	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U288	Several questions arise here, but I ask you about the collection and transport of waste by type. When it comes to a single farm and there is an honest collection of glass in one place, other waste in another, different machines start hauling them away. In such a case, the people of the house must take into account that not once a month or once a quarter, the garbage truck does not come to their yard, but may start to squirm there, see that five times a month. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U289	Thank you. Probably not five times a month, because glass containers are accepted in an organized shipment of waste. If this farmhouse wants to give away biowaste, I do not want to compost it, I hope that most people want to compost themselves, then there are multi-chamber cars. Well, that depends on the shipper, too, but I am pretty sure that as the shipper, the company will look at what is the most optimal solution. We have received a lot of complaints that a citizen is watching from a window how one container is dismantled into a car and then another container is taken and thrown into the same car. They say you see, this is our waste collection. Actually, this is where we get back to communication. We're gonna have to shake the ashes on our heads, too. But there are actually multi-chamber cars in Estonia that pick up different waste from one place and keep them separate. But also, surely there is also the possibility that I have given this example before, that if somewhere on the street, to put it figuratively, there are four houses facing it, then there must be flexibility. There is no need to create a situation where all four houses should have separate containers. Surely it is wise to solve it by making sense to have a single bio-waste container of a certain size. You have to be flexible. There is no need to press plastic containers for everyone. It is necessary to be flexible and to resolve matters sensibly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U290	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U291	Thank you. Good minister! I take this opportunity to very much support you in the message that the disposal of mixed municipal waste is too cheap and must be appreciated. It will then be possible to invest in sorting and the circular economy. But here's the question. Can you evaluate or give us any information on how the previous negotiations with the European Union are going on on whether we have the hope of getting money in the next period of euro money in order to invest in the circular economy? Is there any indication of this now? This is certainly an important source of investment in the circular economy sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U292	Thank you. It has been on the agenda in the past, and it has also been supported by Europe. But we still have completely open funds for the next period. There have also been some suggestions that we should start putting money away from the environment at all, perhaps to patch up the hole in the corona crisis. So the situation is pretty messed up. But in the Ministry of the Environment, we will certainly do everything in our power to ensure that measures to support the circular economy will continue to exist under the organisation of the Environmental Investment Centre and to help move forward in this area. I'm sure we'll hold hands with a pulse on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U293	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions for you. I would now like to ask Erki Savisaare, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, to act as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U294	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Environment Committee discussed this draft on Tuesday, 12 May. The draft was introduced by the Minister of the Environment Rene Kokk, the head of the Ministry's Environmental Management Department, Sigrid Soomlais, advisor Kristel Murumaa and legal lawyer Kätlin Raudla. In addition to the members of the Committee on the Environment, Riigikogu member Andres Metsoja also listened to this discussion. The Minister and Kristel Murumaa briefed the Commission on planned changes. A number of questions were raised in the Commission, which also sounded in this Chamber. I wouldn't re-refer them. The Commission agreed by consensus that this draft could be discussed in this large Chamber today and that the first reading of the draft could be concluded. When the rapporteur was appointed, the vote was taken, the choice was between the speaker and Mart Võrguship. With 4 votes: 3 they decided to send the speaker to the remote. As Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, I promise that we will certainly find a draft worthy of Mardi, which she will be able to present on this board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-20_U295	Thank you very much. There will be no further questioning when two questions have been taken advantage of. So, questions, esteemed waitress, no questions for you. It is now possible to open negotiations, the negotiations can be held by representatives of the political groups. There is no wish to negotiate. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 190. There are no other proposals, so the first reading is closed. The deadline for tabling amendments is 3 June at 5.15 p.m. Thank you very much. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 6.17 p.m.
