ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on the 8th working week on Thursday. Time of receipt of inquiries and drafts. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U2	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, we discussed a draft for more generous compensation for sick days, unfortunately it was rejected at first reading. We then voted on the amendment on the state budget for the following year, which would allow the first days of sickness to be reimbursed. This amendment, unfortunately, was not supported. Yesterday, the number of new positive corona test results was 274, today it is 414. It won't get any better in the near future. When we heard the answers of the representatives of the coalition parties and the representatives of the government that we were discussing, thinking, finding the best solution in the long term, considering whether from the first day or the second day, that what would be more sensible, just as yesterday, so is the message from the Social Democratic Party Group today that we do not have time to consider right now. Yes, in the long run, changes are also needed. But in the context of the rapid spread of the virus, a quick decision is also needed to allow working people to stay home with the first symptoms. We therefore propose a decision of the Riigikogu: "Proposal to the Government of the Republic to develop changes to the conditions and procedures for reimbursement of sick days." And these changes should enter into force on 1 December, so that people can remain at home without risk of coping with the first symptoms. The fact that the opposition does not like the detailed proposals, I understand, so just agree on the terms and procedures and we agree to vote in favour of any compensation procedure for the first days of sickness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U3	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U4	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable representatives of the people! Today is International Men's Day, and I think it would be appropriate to do one manly thing. I therefore submit a draft decision of the Riigikogu on the issue of the direct election of the President of the Republic of Estonia. On the basis of § 105 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the Act on Referendum and § 128 and 130 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, I would like to put the following other question to the referendum on 18 April 2021: "Does the President have to be elected by the Estonian people?" on the ballot paper as the question "Does the President have to be elected by the Estonian people?" and the cells with the answer options "Yes" and "No." The purpose of the decision is to ask the citizens of the Republic of Estonia whether the President should be elected by the Estonian people. By quoting Neil Armstrong, this is a small step for me, but a big leap for the people of Estonia in its development. There is no need to be afraid of a referendum. There have been 105 referendums in Switzerland over 12 years. We must not forget the very simple truth: vox populi, vox dei, the voice of the people is the voice of God. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U5	Thank you very much. There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U6	64 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 37.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U7	We can start today's agenda. We have one item on today's agenda. This is the debate on the key state issue "The Post-Teachers and Appreciation of Teachers as the foundation of the sustainability of the Estonian state" initiated by the Committee on Culture, and I will introduce the procedure for its treatment. According to § 153 of the Riigikogu's Law on Home and Working Conditions, the Riigikogu's Management Board, on the proposal of the Riigikogu Committee on Culture, decided on the following procedure for discussing the important state issue "Students' Post-Growth and Appreciation of Teachers' Office as the foundation for the sustainability of the Estonian state": first Aadu Black, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, gave a presentation for up to 15 minutes, questions and answers to him for up to 30 minutes; second, Liis Reier, teacher of French Lytseum history and social studies in Tallinn and coordinator of students with special educational needs, presented up to 15 minutes, and questions and answers up to 30 minutes; then Professor Margus Pedate, Head of the University of Tartu Pedagogicum, presented up to 15 minutes and answers up to 30 minutes. Finally, the Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps gave a presentation for up to 15 minutes and questions and answers for up to 30 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may submit up to two questions to the rapporteurs. After the presentations and questions have been answered, negotiations will be opened. Speakers may be members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups. At the request of the Committee on Culture, I propose that the Riigikogu first speak with the representatives of the political groups. Call, as usual, from remote control for 5 + 3 minutes, if necessary or in place for two minutes. The Riigikogu will not take a decision to close the discussion. The Committee on Culture has also proposed an immediate extension of the session until the agenda item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. This will be put to the vote by the President as the time comes. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's start with the issue of today's agenda, a crucial national question: "Structural growth of teachers and valuing the teaching profession as the foundation of the sustainability of the Estonian state." Aadu Must, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, will be the rapporteur for the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Hello, everyone! Although I think we've already seen and met most of them today and said hello. The Committee on Culture, as has just been introduced, presents an important topic for Estonia's national survival to the Riigikogu plenary, and this is teacher, teacher secondary growth, valuing their work. We have been asked if we finally understood the importance of this teaching profession. No, the Commission has always understood this and has been working on this for a very long time. We have also received criticism of some drafts or comments. I remember, not very long ago, when a draft was tabled to restructure the education system and, after the press, it was upset that the Committee on Culture was only able to discuss for half an hour what one group had done for almost half a year and rejected it. This criticism was wrong of the Commission in the sense that the Commission had been discussing this issue over the years and therefore it was easy to assess the proposal. But the important thing is that I have to make an opening statement from the Commission. I apologize in advance for the fact that it is somewhat different from the ordinary format. All of us have experienced that when a Commission report is made, it is said: that is, one member of the Commission said it, the other one said it, the other one said it, and the third one. Important aspects will be quoted and highlighted. We have a whole session to prepare this question, and it seems to me that some of the members of the Committee on Culture, one by one or all together, could make a little book about what they were asking for, what answers they got. That is why I have to deviate from the format and I cannot refer to the very grateful work of all the members of the Committee on Culture in this area. Nor can I quote all the guests, some of whom, fortunately, are still performing, some of whom are also at the courtroom to support us. After all, materials are available on the website of the Committee on Culture. I have them as a little summary book with the same materials together. It's clear that you can't read them all. When we were preparing the question, we really met different institutions, different stakeholders, because each of them has their own interests, their own views, our own understandings, and it is up to us to put them together in one whole. We heard the first thing about butter, not first, but as one group, we heard the representatives of the higher education institutions that train teachers, Tallinn University of Technology, the University of Tartu, the Estonian Academy of Arts, who all enlightened their aspect and their work in preparing teachers. Among the parties heard were schoolkeepers, the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities, the Council of Tallinn Schoolmasters, the Estonian Teachers' Association, the Estonian Educational Workers' Association, the Estonian Society for the Promotion of Vocational Training, the Cooperation Chamber of Teachers' Communities, the Estonian Association of Private Education Schools, representatives of various support programmes such as Youth School, Back to School, etc. Don't mind if there's one that's not mentioned. We asked for opinions from other groups, such as substitute teachers, etc., and so on, there were also proposals for success. But the important thing is that it also received a whole series of simple teacher suggestions, initiatives. The members of the Committee on Culture themselves were not lazy, but we were in contact with those who actually work in the educational world. There's another very nice thing you've probably noticed. It was the press, and it was particularly good, that brought along the players themselves to raise this national issue. And if you have noticed, in recent days there have been very good comments on education and teacher preparation, on teachers' working and pay conditions, in one or two publications, even online. We think it's part of our favor that this thing's been launched. What is also important is that we have raised the subject of the teacher's situation in the teacher's labour market. The following speakers, including the representatives of the teachers, will discuss this in more detail. On the Commission's side, I must say that despite the fact that the teacher was at the centre of the debate, the whole educational world was constantly and systematically going through the topics of the debate. It turns out that there is no aspect of educational life that concerns teachers, their successors, their professional confidence, their quest for this position. Furthermore, in the committee, we agreed that the chairman of the committee would not make any major generalisations before discussing a matter of national importance. The Commission will come back to these issues. And we have certainly agreed that the initiatives of the Commission will also come, also in the legislative process, but today we will listen to all parties and present this problem, which, once again, was very clear to the Committee on Culture, that it needs a vigorous reform and that it is a question of the sustainability of the Estonian state. That's why we're telling you this. Other committees also speak exactly about [problems in their field, which] are vital to the Estonian state, whether it is for my sake or a hero. I'm not going to name these subjects, you know them better than you do. By the way, another line. I promised that I would not talk about the demographic problem or about the age and generations of teachers. But there is one such sad comic thing that came out, though talking to my Benelux colleagues, they said that we have something very well. But it was a huge black humour. And since my name is Black, I can do black humor, otherwise it wouldn't be nice talking about this chair. They said you didn't have one problem. We have become an increasingly painful problem with the love stories of young teachers and older students and the issues of regulating them, you are free of it. Thank you. A sad joke, though. Themes. No matter who you ask, we all know that the issue of teachers' pay is a very serious issue. And the Riigikogu has worked on it, so we have made progress step by step, but nevertheless the subject is still topical. Various suggestions have been made about the talk, but the general opinion, which we also go through from several documents, is that teachers could have an average salary not in Estonia but at least 1.2 times the average wage, given the responsibility of their work. Similarly, teachers and those close to them complain that over-exploitation of teachers' enthusiasm is a major problem. It is considered that the teacher, in addition to doing schoolwork, could do something else. They always have. And that teachers are enthusiastic people. Obviously, society has reached the point that it is also reasonable, practical and compulsory to pay for additional work. One of the quite large circles of topics concerning the pay and economic conditions of teachers was also the question of the fair relationship between the contribution to work and professionalism. It is pointed out that the school is a success story like a big black hole: the teacher goes in from one end, then he's in school, he's a teacher, and then he's still a teacher, and eventually he retires, still a teacher. And here comes one of the first problems that the Commission has followed very closely. It was not our task to observe how bad or good the situation was at school, but our task was to monitor where the legislator itself is an obstacle or where the laws we created interfere with the progress of life. After all, it is important for us to see how these obstacles can be removed. Here, on several occasions, there were clues to this decision made years ago, which abolished the career line of teachers, the assessment of qualifications, well that was where, as you remember, was a junior teacher, teacher, senior teacher and teacher-methodician. By the way, all of these definitions or these, take it, if you want, rank, all of them had their real content. Real content meant, for example, that the teacher-methodic was the person who had great experience and actually took care of a young beginner's teacher, was his mentor, helped him get in, etc. And here comes such a return ball to the Riigikogu: maybe these thoughts of the time should be re-examined, and if the legislator reaches a consensus or a common opinion that changes are needed, then it does not always mean that this earlier amendment of the law was wrong, he may have been right in his own time, but perhaps a new time requires new and sometimes similar solutions. In addition to the work load, the extra tasks outside the office of the Riigikogu, not only the working conditions of teachers themselves, but also the conditions of development, if you wish, of continuous development, are also an important topic. Some times this joke has been made, no soldiers know that when you go to war, you have to shoot and then load the gun, but it has been said that we sometimes tend to demand something from the teacher to shoot the gun, but there is no time to load it. Now for a serious topic... Is there really only three minutes left?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U9	Three more minutes, yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U10	Got it. One important issue to come back to the criticisms of the Riigikogu is that one of the reforms that had ever been implemented and which found that special schools as special schools, such as children with special needs, may not be very necessary. One strong argument was that these students could study at a regular school. The argument was that it might be possible to save money. However, it turned out that today, when many children with special needs are brought to a regular school where there are not enough support staff to support and help them, this has led to the need for new special schools, which are once again expensive. What is needed is a special school, special classes for talented children, because the abilities of our children are our national wealth, which must not be allowed to run away. If there's a situation where the school has talented students like tugboats who are bored there, it's a huge loss. Teacher education is... I'll pass on that, luckily, the university representatives will tell us better about it. National support programmes are expected, teaching-oriented management, incentives such as health surveillance, cancellation of student loans. There is also such a repeated good proposal that perhaps teachers should also be able to obtain more cultural and cultural benefits. We're waiting for teachers to be fucking cultural people, maybe we should give them, I don't know whether the cultural scholarship yet or free theatrical tickets or something else that's been through here. The digital learning environment is one of the topics that went through and where we can talk about a huge head start, especially compared to 2013. A whole new world has been created. But if we get more practical, let's just say there's actually been some improvement. I remember the time in my Riigikogu when one Minister of Education said that digital learning is a PDF format from a regular textbook. Although Estonian publishers were already preparing not electronic textbooks, but learning environments where the teacher existed, there was a central figure, which were attractive and exciting for students. When the Coronary crisis broke out, we knew that we had a very good digital world. However, it also turned out to be partly illusory. There was a problem with the availability of technology. Unfortunately, not only with the availability of technology, but also... They were good suitcases, but their contents may have been weak. I'm gonna skip a series of problems, including official barriers, which we have too much. I reject the involvement of parents, but I am saying that the part of the education reform is, of course, not just a school arrangement, but a question of content. Although the administrative reform and these issues and the precise division of roles are also very much linked. We also thought that maybe the Ministry of Education should also be responsible for the old habit if there is no soap in the school laundry room, but it turns out that this is the job of a schoolgiver. To sum it up. I may have been in trouble, but I turned down the basics. I can't predict what the Committee on Culture would do once and for all, but the situation is something like that with Grandma's skirt so patched up that they were looking for a piece of cloth that could make a new place for Grandma's skirt. Finally, the old man brought a new skirt from the city, it was cut to pieces, and so it continued to be in place for several years. In fact, we have reached a situation where Estonia needs a comprehensive, serious, well-considered and professional education reform. When the Riigikogu arrives at the same opinion, this will provide a solid foundation for the sustainability of the Estonian state, because without a very good education we will not have progress in other areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U11	Thank you very much, dear waitress. You have questions. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U12	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I have a question with two sides. First of all, it is unclear to me how this transition to spring distance learning really affected children's or young people's knowledge when we look, say, in five years' time. There's been some very controversial data here. In the spring, a lot of people said it was a total disaster, so now I see that the results of the state exam weren't too bad. Does the Commission have a better idea? The other part of the question is that you said that the Riigikogu could contribute. But I want to know what the role of the Riigikogu and the Committee on Culture is at all about whether to switch to distance learning, or they are now saying to volunteer the exams, to cancel the exams, to leave the children to repeat the class course. Are these ideas that come from the Ministry of Education, or have they been somehow coordinated with the Riigikogu and the Committee on Culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U13	Thank you for your very good questions. Firstly, when it comes to digital learning, the situation was very different. Some teachers have said that differences [increased]. There were differences both regionally and in schools, individually. We know there are differences, some schools are very good, some are worse. One argument was that the difference between successful and less successful was increased. Apparently, there is a great deal of digital competence somewhere and enthusiasts are at the forefront of this enthusiasm, which I said before, sometimes teachers have been overexploited, but indeed, this enthusiasm played an important role. There are schools that did very well [digital training], where solutions were found that showed that digital learning also offers certain playful elements that are popular among children. We know they used to say there wasn't a generation of tablets and cripples anymore, they said there was a generation of TV and computers. Now it's a computer generation and it's applicable. But the crisis was also that we really reported, for example HITSA, at the time HITSA reported: we have the best packages for bringing knowledge to school, the information system, the so-called hardware, is excellent. And then when the teachers said, but I'm sorry, the suitcase is great, but there's nothing inside it, they said, "No, but it has to be dealt with by others, someone else." And then they didn't quite know who was doing it. I am truly an optimist, and I say this: now that we have this HARNO, which has several structures connected, and in which the same structure must be responsible not only for making a suitcase, but for bringing out a suitcase with very good goods, in cooperation with, of course, teachers and their organisations, etc., there seems to have been progress. But the fact that we were better in our dreams than we really were, of course, holds true. And again, still compared to that time, which wasn't very long ago, when it was said to have finished the digital textbook and enough, we have moved on. In the meantime, while we were setting our goals, there were some foreign representatives who met our pedagogical publishers and took over some of our learning environments, they were immensely praised in geography class, and you can see for 30 seconds how the volcano erupts, and yet the teacher conducts, to whom he gives more, to whom less, and so on. Hugely sympathetic international feedback that the teacher also remained in this digital package. We ourselves did not come to its implementation. Now another thing where the Riigikogu can or cannot speak along. Actually, we've been watching this all along. I think each of us is a fanatic in our field or at least an enthusiast. And the question is whether it's all about money or not about money. Well, it's not all about money, of course, but you can't have a reform without money. We once argued with Minister Aaviksoo, who said that the transition to free higher education does not require money. And then it would have been a very bad reform of that, wouldn't it? Of course, the role of the Riigikogu is to establish a certain hierarchy. And if we have one committee that says that our area needs special national attention, another committee says that [in the first instance their area] needs special attention, and the third one says the same, the task of our Committee on Culture, one of them, is to talk about [the importance of its field] to the political group's fellows and to prove and explain and demonstrate the need to contribute. Our task is to tell teachers that we are setters, that we do not come to solve every issue, such as the issue of the organisation of education. I'll just get a few random problems. We have so-called silo towers. Somewhere in the city, there's a vocational high school and high school side by side, neither one of them has a good chemistry class. Which one to build? The fight's on, whichever gets it. Actually, it could be one class on two. Maybe this chemistry is the same in both vocational and general education. It is the task of the Riigikogu to remove such barriers. I can't talk for long. The Commission will come up here with new drafts; the Commission will also have the idea to go on its own initiative or as an initiator of the PGS. But that's another music.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U14	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The government decree sets out the teachers' general working time, which is 35 hours a week. However, according to various experts, different studies show that this overall working time tends to go to 40 to 60 hours, which is different from school to school, but still clearly more than this general working time. Could the reason be that we are trying to keep on putting on new responsibilities for teachers simply as a burden without analysing whether they carry it out? And if such hours and burdens are true, do you not find it particularly sad that today's government has not found the money to raise teachers' salaries? Are these things consistent, or have I misunderstood something?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U16	Luckily, you're not... I'm sorry, luckily, I don't know, in the committee and in the hall, you can also be the first person to be mentioned in private life, right? You and I have been discussing such close topics a long time ago, including working in local governments. There we found that the central government always liked to assign tasks to the local government, and when it was asked for money, it was said to do so at the expense of existing resources. This is a long-term tradition of Estonian politics. And, unfortunately, this is also true in the area of education. Even greater trouble than the fact that teachers' burden is uneven... Yes, the burden is uneven, there are also domains of matter. Some teachers sit until half the night and, according to the old tradition, improve beautifully notebooks etc., the other goes and is like a talented singer and sings his class in the best sense of the word. I don't disparage singing, nothing else, but these are different things. In fact, in 2014 it took place, I think it might have been something similar to harmonisation when it was found that all teachers were exactly the same. They found it easier, and they trusted the head of the school. They said that the headmaster could do exactly the same as the junior and senior teachers, etc., so let him decide. Actually, it's really hard to do. It is very unhappy [story], as I said at the beginning, that if a teacher is always exactly the same defined character and we forget that a beginner's teacher should have a lower load, because his load on preparing hours is great, he should have a next teacher-mentor. That's one thing. However, there must be a flexible transition at the next stages. And the fact that the education system has in some cases been entrusted with completely different tasks, not only in some other countries, we also have a bad one, it has to be paid in that case. And what I absolutely agree with, and what can't be any different, is that the teacher... Still, I can't say everything we agree on, but I'll tell you a few different nuances. Teachers themselves have said that the vast majority of them have overcome it so that [they see the problem] only in wages, whether they pay more or less. It is considered very important that... Again, times are not comparable, but in Soviet times, which I do not idealize every thing, every measure must be viewed in my own time, the teachers were sent to Värska camp for the summer, where they could communicate with each other and where university teachers taught them and made life exciting. Surprise, surprise, that generation appreciates it. Our current teachers' organizations are trying to do something like this, but they say that the state's support for [the teacher] to improve, move forward, be a creative personality is weak. So such a big bouquet, not just salary.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U17	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You've answered my question a little, but I'll ask you anyway. You gave examples in your presentation that the teacher goes to school and then comes out in retirement and has been [all this time] a teacher. Then you pointed out, as a problem, that these degrees were lost, that the expectation was as if they were. And then that teachers might expect more of a cultural programme [and you asked] whether we should support it. How do you feel about these problems with more emphasis on getting more money to make a career rise, wanting professional standards because there was also a higher fee, wanting more support? Or is it more of a retreat to the fact that the teacher wants more recognition, wants more joint action, wants more part of a larger system, and maybe beyond recognition by the parents? That he's not a servicer, he's still such a creative and pioneer and a good-for-nothing developer. How do you feel where this emphasis is today, and what can we do if the problem is not just about money?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U19	Thank you. I'm going to cancel the part where I say we think amazingly alike, but apparently we're in the same environment. Salary is important because wages are part of recognition. And what I know is that some young teachers are proud to talk about how much they get paid, especially when they talk to their colleagues left behind in college research, who get less. But he's embarrassed when he tells it to his cousin who's somewhere else at work and who gets more times. So pay is definitely a part of it, and it shows a person, not a place in society, but a society's assessment of him. So it's absolutely true. The other side, the one you spoke of recognition, which is absolutely necessary. Absolutely the same! I know [some active teacher], and when I got here, I started counting them on my fingers just in case. I don't know very many active teachers, but I have six good acquaintances among them who had made a career, become a teacher-methodician, or something like that, senior teachers, but more teacher-methodicians, they were proud of it. You also did a hell of a job, and this internal structure began to develop in school, so-called divisions were formed by certain student teachers, where the Methodist was their leader. The bad news is that when these titles were lost, it also resulted in people who were active, damned, somehow disappointed, falling into the role of a conveyor worker. And since the teacher must not be the conveyor worker that our society has sometimes wanted to make him, I have been talking to politicians for decades. Some of them have said that Aadu, don't worry, it won't hit us in the near future. It's not gonna hit anytime soon, it's gonna be on a longer schedule. The teacher deserves recognition, deserves the opportunity to develop. That's what the teachers have said. I may be able to make a lot of words, but I am of the same opinion that actually echoed against these questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U20	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U21	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! Grateful subject! After all, the strength of the faculty, as well as the learning environment, depends on the strength of the next generations. But I want to ask you that one important thing that we can support teachers is, after all, the consistent appreciation of the teaching profession by the state, and not uneven. If we look at what happened last night in this Chamber, can we say that the state has consistently valued the teaching profession or that there are still gaps in it. Should we do something to make society a clear message that teaching is a worthy profession?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U22	Thank you. I have recently started calling myself the Riigikogu dinosaur because I've been here a long time and I remember different things. Against this background, I would like to say that I will not go to the level of political parties in our Riigikogu; this is not important, this long-term practice has been a patchless blanket. The Riigikogu is involved in writing laws, but not lawmaking. You know, these are different things. These are different things in the sense that one law can turn things in the right direction, help them to keep up. And if he doesn't, he'll be of little help, and sometimes he'll go out. And sometimes there's another law that regulates education, but actually it was meant to be a measure of regional policy. Or there will be another law that we must discuss with the Committee on Social Affairs and otherwise we will not. But if education isn't taken into account, one side could get hurt. And here's my opinion, and I think I'm expressing the opinion of the majority of the members of the Committee on Culture that one or the other of the proposed improvements, the measure is little, Estonia needs a comprehensive and well-considered educational reform, as if the orchestra were playing. And one more thing: in successful countries, weep or laugh, education tends to be a cross-party issue, where continuity, sustainability is also sought, where former education ministers are also mobilized on a ship, which is what they were in the party. And in education, obviously, so that there is a normal way to move forward, it should be done according to other best examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U23	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U24	President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! Today we are talking about an issue that is very important for Estonia's future. I wanted to ask you and talk about teachers' salaries, because I'm sure pay is a very important motivator in teaching, though not the only one. I would like to know your views on how the follow-up of our teachers, the search for new teachers will be facilitated by the government's decision to freeze teachers' salaries for four years, in a situation where the minimum wage for teachers today is already well behind the average wage in the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U25	So the question is very serious and acute. Let's start at the end. I have heard four times, I do not always listen very carefully, but four times I have noticed how the Riigikogu has been asked why the government frozen wages for four years. And four out of four times it has been explained that maybe someone's been misexpressed, and I can't tell you that, we're talking about a year's payoff. And when asked what the future perspective is, [it has been answered that] you need to look at it. But over and over again, the Ministry of Education and Research, Prime Minister, repeat: the issue of the freeze of teachers' salaries is one year, and if you think it only applies to teachers, then let it be said that it will be applied more widely. And speaking to teachers about freezing for one year, there hasn't been much mutiny. Teachers have always been enthusiastic, done more than they get money. As far as teachers' salaries are concerned, I am entirely in the same party as you: they are behind. I am not talking about history today, but as soon as I see some people who are deeply interested in history, I would just like to say that, by looking at the development of society over decades and centuries, relatively the teacher has been more important in society than now. There's a retreat to the conveyors now, and it's dangerous. Teachers' salaries. If you're asking if they're important, yes, they're important, we both agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U26	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U27	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I also welcome other colleagues on return. I wanted to ask whether you and the Committee on Culture have also discussed the issue of Estonian language teachers in Russian schools. I myself am a member of this Committee on Trouble and we are about to come up with a bunch of proposals. We have also spoken with the Minister of Education. Has this come up in the Committee on Culture, and do you have any visions in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U28	Thank you. This is an extremely serious and important issue in the Committee on Culture. But not only in the Committee on Culture, but I would also say that in the corridors and costaars of the Riigikogu, where, for example, I have talked to Mr Espenberg about how important this topic could be and have sought these solutions and bottlenecks. It turns out that great happiness and unity are always the same, but troubles are very different. We have talked to Russian-speaking schools about preparing teachers, and also about preparing teachers for schools that are switching to Estonian. This is also a very serious issue in the Committee on Culture. We're all for it, but when we start looking for resources, sometimes there's different ideas. I mean, surprise-surprise, I can see from the top of my home in Tartu that this is not a very big problem, and I believe it. And then when colleagues come from Ida-Virumaa or Tallinn, they say that this is a huge problem. Fortunately, in the Commission, we have a representation everywhere, we have learned it quite well. We've got sharp stuff upstairs, and we're trying to get over them, our own shadows. I must not make any more promises until things are decided, but something exciting is coming from this big hall, and I very much hope that we have more consensus than before.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U29	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You spoke in your introductory presentation about what's in our power and what expectations are or what we've ever changed in our legal space, this losing steps from junior teacher to teacher-method. I have a question for us both here as legislator and in the context of the executive. We are talking about the upbringing of teachers and about the fact that today we also have a very large number of teachers with a fixed-term contract, because we still have a very large number for those who have actually learned to be teachers in their own time, but at the wrong time, essentially excluded the possibility of working as teachers. What about these qualifications requirements and regulations? Is it possible for us here, in the short term, to actually alleviate this problem by reviewing these things?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U31	Indeed, we are talking about both strategic and short-term measures, and I believe that Mr Pedaste speaks very substantially and deeply in terms of preparation. There must be a distinction between strategic measures and what is really temporary, as you say. There was a debate in the Commission that we have all sorts of small initiatives, such as Back to School or Youth School, etc. But it's like a partisan squad that lets an enemy echelon into a ditch, as they say. And the regular army is still based on the way universities prepare very good and highly qualified teachers, of course, that's different. There are many enthusiastic, enthusiastic inclusion programs, but they are just tools. However, on behalf of the universities, I would like to say one thing. Here, as a kind of shadow of what is happening in Europe, we saw an education policy such as the ITA, which we saw as the ITA, where the right to assess a person's previous work experience, whether or not he went to school or was [acquired] in another system. In this way, however, a qualified specialist could also be assembled from fragments when he was convinced that he had actually collected its education and knowledge and experience from somewhere. But the real thing is that when an interesting person comes, for example, starts giving me a history lesson, it turns out he's interesting enough, and he can talk very interestingly about one subject, it's harder on the other, the fourth one gets in trouble. They can be used on an occasional basis, not in such a way that now came a tremendously interesting person and replaced the [missing] teacher. It turns out that the aid programmes in other countries, for which we were hoping that we would now get a new teacher from somewhere else, came out that we would get a hugely good person's school if he had a real teacher at the same time, who controls and rules the course. So these temporary measures and the fact that the conversion of qualifications, its flexibility, it is quietly taking root and moving on with it. But the regular army is still made up of teachers with good practice and theoretical base from universities. And there is a great deal of improvement to be made in practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U32	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U33	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good performer! There's a lot of things I wanted to ask at the moment that I've already asked, so I'm gonna try to make it faster. One thing, of course, is the pay of teachers. Of course, it is a serious matter, but it is strange to hear about it from those ambassadors who have had the opportunity to improve it over time. To blame our coalition for this is not right and beautiful. Another thing is that the burden on teachers is very high, and school leaders are struggling so hard to do chemistry so that teachers get paid in the first place. Because it is not as easy to renew these annual contracts with teachers and to sign up for these working hours so that the salary is normal, and to see that they do everything legally. So this thing has to be solved, there's nothing else to do here. Teachers also have professional standards.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U34	Question! Now, a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U35	Yeah. This is what you have looked at, and I hope you will also look at how this would have been determined in the future with professional standards. And have you also thought about how to inspect, say, Russian schools on the education side? The real problem with them is that teaching in Russian schools is what it is. If you go to the library and you look...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U36	Honourable colleague! Now, try to formulate the question, you've already gone way beyond time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U37	Okay. In short, the question is, will these things ever start to be inspected, let's say, those schools that need to be inspected more often?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U38	Of course, all schools need to be inspected in order to remain politically correct, I stress that, but we have indeed discussed the specific problems of Russian-speaking schools repeatedly and in substance. Excuse me again for giving an example that comes to mind from the side of history teachers, where it turned out that some Russian-speaking schools teach one history and another. And I dare say that in these Russian-speaking schools we have also carried out follow-up, I myself have been a lecturer in schools where my former graduates work, and I dare say that in Russian-speaking schools things are very correct with the teaching of Estonian history and history at all. No emotions, no fights, no wars, and when it comes to understanding different concepts of history. But this is when teachers have been from the University of Tartu or Tallinn University, for example. But if he's come from Pihkva's pedagogical institute, sorry, now he's from the university, he's talking a very different story, as he's been taught. So there are problems. The Ministry has responded to me that they have taken into account the criticism and comments we have made in this direction, and I believe that this has been done.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U39	Thank you, dear waitress. Marko Šorin, one more question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U40	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good performer! I realized that at the end of the speech, there was also the willingness to talk about schoolteachers, or local authorities. As a member of the Committee on Culture, I also remember that some of the groups highlighted the expectations of local governments. Yes, we cannot dictate things to local authorities here, but we remember, for example, the question of funding substitute teachers. When you answer this question, would you like to expand [the topic] a little and also talk about expectations for local governments, or schoolchildren?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U41	We often end the meetings of the Committee on Culture by not pointing out, but putting three points, and it seems that I have to do so here too, because the time is running out or is already running out. However, I will also say that the problem of the schoolmaster has been quite an important part of the work of our committee, although the organisation of schools and education policies are quite different things and at times administrative reform has been attempted in regulating school life. Once, when the administrative reform had not been completed, the schools wanted to go ahead, or the Ministry of Education, it was a bit of a wagon application to the horse's front. But this is an important problem. In my opinion, this administrative reform, which we did somehow in the end, improved the situation because before the fate of a number of schools was measured not by an educational tape, but by regional policy: if the school disappears, the village disappears and so on. And it was not an education, it was a question of the local economy and the tax economy. So there is a lot to be said about these issues, which I apologise for in advance, and to which the Commission apparently also comes with various drafts. I mentioned silotors, vocational education and general education, etc., but there are many of them. In the Commission, we discussed, for example, how lifelong learning is important, how it can be promoted quite well in vocational education and then it turns out that the unemployment fund, which does not have much resources, is involved in re-training the unemployed, but that the legislator has put something in control. True, the unemployment fund has gotten better. When the unemployed Kreenholm gangsters, 50-year-old girls, flamenco dance and ikebana were taught to send them back to the labour market, this has gone on. But these problems, I'm sorry, I could only open up. The others will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U42	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be listening to a second presentation. I ask Liis Reieri, coordinator of education for students with special educational needs, teacher of history and social education in the French Lyceum in Tallinn. 15 minutes for the presentation and 30 minutes for questions and answers. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U43	Honourable Riigikogu and all interested parties! My name is Liis Reier. I'm a teacher, and I'm proud of it. First of all, I will talk a few words about my background, especially in order that if you have any questions, they can be presented in the light of all my experience. I started my job as a teacher at a school in Mustamäe about 20 years ago, it was a big school. Then I worked as the head of a small rural school, and this country school actually belonged to three kindergartens. I have also worked at the Astangu Vocational Rehabilitation Centre, so I have a pretty good overview of vocational education and, at the same time, of teaching and supporting young people with special educational needs when moving to the labour market. I have worked in two parts at the French Lyceum in Tallinn, as a teacher in the beginning and now as a coordinator for learning students with special educational needs. I'm happy for everyone in this room. Teachers work hard even if there is one student in the class, because we have prepared. I'll start with a story. Over the years, as a social teacher, I have repeatedly asked young people what might be the pay for which they would choose teaching work. And when I found out the day before yesterday that I was coming in front of you, I asked the same question to my class. I'm a class manager. I have a great XI class, they're very capable people. And you know what they told me? Quite a few thought that they could become teachers, but not in Estonia. This shows us that our education is so good that our young people are already ready to go even outside Estonia to work in schools. They can do it. Their foreign language skills are so good, their preparation in many disciplines is so good that they do not have to doubt whether they will succeed. I think one ten years ago maybe the language skills were behind our teachers going abroad, but now the same thing we have already encountered in medicine has arrived in this area as well. Estonian education is the first in Europe, the third in the world. However, Estonia spends 30% less on education than the OECD average. The question now is that if we want to keep the level we have, we need to start doing something very quickly. Because, again, data: about a third of teachers working in schools in Estonia are not qualified. About 1,000 are either secondary education or even, as we have all read well prepared for today's class, 10 or 15 teachers have basic education in schools. The decisions taken today will have an impact in about seven or ten years' time. That means we have to make a decision today. You're doing state budget readings. Please observe how education is viewed from there. The role of teacher after the Spring Coronary Fear can no longer be called into question. I really liked Mr. Randper's question to Mr. Black. The question was about the impact of distance learning. We heard the answer that the effect was very different, that very successful students even won from it and less successful or mediocre students lost, so I will explain what is actually a long-term effect. If we look at the results of the State Exam, the actual work has been done much earlier than in the last two and a half months. This [what are the results of the state exams] is not an indicator. [The effect of distance learning is] rather what we are seeing at school today, this attitude and attitude. The ability of the students to concentrate, focus on the important, to pull themselves together and to persevere, it decreased. Now, to justify and explain a little bit why very strong students won. The point is that the advantage of a strong student is the ability of independent work, i.e. the ability to set goals and the ability to work independently with material. That's the power of a strong student. But teachers are needed first and foremost to force students to work. That's one thing. We're flattering, but in a very big way, it's still coercion. If we now target today's topic, it is clear that the appreciation of the teaching profession and the subsequent growth of teachers are issues that are completely inextricably linked to each other, it is not particularly possible to divide them into parts here. But I did, however, and I also wrote down two important sub-topics in the materials that were sent to you. Firstly, the sustainability of Estonian education depends on how the teachers currently working value their profession. I looked at this from such aspects: how influential they feel in society; what is the ratio between the burden on the teacher and the pay (remuneration in itself is not so important, but precisely that ratio to the burden); then, to date, the very important issue is how teachers, all or most teachers deal with different parts of the job, because responsibilities have increased. In addition to security issues, including how the teacher feels in front of the class, in relations with parents, but also in relations with the country, such as how my work is measured. How these goals that I should achieve can be met in the eyes of the state and society. Undoubtedly, the profession also brings some benefits, such as 56 days of paid leave. This must not be forgotten. A few more perks. The second issue is what really worries us more: how promising young people will consider teaching in the future. What does it depend on? This certainly depends on the importance of this profession, or young people want to do something important, that is what they say, they want to somehow get into the influence of society. Secondly, but perhaps the most important issue is that young people believe that the work of a teacher is not equally remunerated by other jobs requiring equivalent education and competence. They see that they have to work so hard to get into this job, so hard to do, they have to learn so much, and they have to have very special personal qualities to cope with it. And they can choose between different areas of life. Flexibility is undoubtedly important for young people. The way I enter the labour market in this job, as I will be given time to adapt, but as I will be given the time and opportunities to learn and the next point of pain to make a career. That's what my class students said. There's no career opportunity in this job. I thought about it a little bit when I got there. I'll tell you a little bit. So this career opportunity is undoubtedly very, very important for young people. If education is a national priority, as we have heard, and it is not difficult to agree, it is easy to find consensus, then the importance of education must be reflected in the state budget. We need to see it there. How to raise the prestige of teaching? As has been said, the teacher wants to be influential in society; he wants to be asked for advice on pedagogical issues, as medical experts are asked when we have health problems in society. And the teachers also expect it to be when development plans, strategies, or external evaluation are being carried out in the field of education, then we want to be asked how the situation looks from the inside, from the school, When it comes to the burden-wage relationship, that is what several people have already talked about here, it seems to me that it is precisely by supporting the principles of inclusive education and individual learning pathways, as well as the implementation of digital learning, that there will always be additional tasks. And our problem is often not this matter-hour problem or the load of matter-hours, but the burden is increasing in relation to other obligations that are outside the substance-hours. The point is that the specifics of teaching are to react immediately when we see a problem. Once Minister Aaviksoo suggested signing an annex to the contract of employment if an additional job were to occur, but it is not possible to run to the head of school in situations where unexpected additional work occurs and to start signing an annex to the contract of employment. It is certainly very important for teachers to cope with different parts of work. Today, my personal experience, as well as my colleagues' experience, is that the greatest difficulty has never been the subject of a course of study, but precisely that the school has been given responsibility for what has traditionally been the responsibility of families. We understand very well that the legislator cannot prescribe their tasks to families, and someone must help children, and someone must teach children even when families are in trouble. But, unfortunately, a very large number of teachers are not prepared for this. A very large proportion of teachers have studied at the university several decades ago when such subjects were not addressed. So the burden has not increased at the expense of hours, but of all the various additional obligations. And these things need to be re-examined and re-evaluated, maybe measured in cash. I would like to conclude by saying that there must certainly be more resources in the state budget to reward the work of educators and to organise further training. It is a political choice to either raise the minimum pay rate for teachers in the same way for all, or perhaps it is even reasonable to think through additional money to carry out important tasks for the state, which are specifically linked to these obligations. There must be better regulation of the teacher's career model, work obligations. There is a need for more staff in schools, because special needs teachers, social pedagogues, logopeds are unable to fulfil all the responsibilities that teachers should actually perform with students in one relationship. And the job has to be divided between more people, which means more teachers are just needed. Or we also have such a choice if we cannot pay for it, then the obligations imposed on schools must be significantly reduced. We need to find the places we can give up.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U44	Honorable waitress, your time is up. Now, would you mind summing up?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U45	I have a summary.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U46	That's the summary? Thank you. You have questions. Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, First of all, I wanted to thank you very much for your human report! That love and how to say, pride in your profession, it's a long way to see. Thank you very much for your work. But my question and the whole point is that I know that you have experience with children who have learning difficulties, with children with special needs, and I am very grateful to my colleague Liina Kersna, who has actually enlightened us that this is a very big and growing problem in Estonian society. I would like to mention here to the audience that a mild mental disability is not a disease. This slight disability may not come out immediately, and the problem is that the child goes to mainstream school and then, after a while, let's say, there are learning difficulties. He's not gonna make it. Since you have this experience, I want to ask you, do you have any ideas on how we can find the best solution in this situation? Thank you. And I'm sorry I went over time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U48	First of all, I would like to disperse this subject a little bit more, because our only students with special needs are not really few with intellectual problems. In fact, the biggest steam in schools is that we have a lot of all kinds of children with hyperactive, active and alert disorders and anxiety disorders, and [many] there are other problems not born, but, in fact, in life, whether they are related to family problems [caused] or social anxiety. And that is the temporary or long-term exclusion of these children from day-to-day learning, which is what worries us most. That's exactly what teachers can't do to help a student when there's no student. And teachers can't interfere with the creation of parental resources. It seems to us today that a very large part of our work is linked to the fact that our young people lack rules and that creating them and making up for this deficit will create a great deal of additional work. At the same time, families have high expectations and sense that they have the right to require the teaching of all students. We agree. But if I return to the question you have asked about children or young people with disabilities, because education is very much linked to financial spending and resources, it is clear that building systems suitable for all children in all schools is much more expensive than specialisation. If here Mr. Black made a black joke that we have to start making special schools for talented people who can't now learn, then maybe here is still the idea of returning to a certain specialization, that there is a part of a school that is very well able to deal with weaker students already, and some schools that may have other strengths. So anything's possible. All children can achieve very good results. The best results will be obtained when there is a very good cooperation with home. We are in the most difficult situation when cooperation with home is difficult. And that's where we ask for family trust and help and trust as experts.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U49	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You have worked in different schools, a small Võsu school and three kindergarten managers, now in the French Lyceum of Tallinn. You're the only waitress today who works at school every day. At the meetings of the Committee on Culture with the representative organisations of teachers, the idea was that although our students' knowledge is world-class and teachers are superhuman, school arrangements are largely the same as the classroom, teacher, tablet, computer, grades, exams a hundred years ago. Maybe it doesn't encourage young people to choose teaching positions either. Do you see new solutions in school arrangements? Would you like to change? And could Estonia be the promoter of the new school model?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U51	Thank you. At times, old school arrangements remain in schools, and it can be said that this justifies itself in part. However, we have laws that allow me to do everything. There's nothing to stop me from doing my studies in any other way than standing in front of the classroom using a board and doing tests. Even now, all teachers have these freedoms. The question is simply how much time we have to prepare these innovations. Because every hour takes time to prepare. And if you really want a fundamental change to deal with a subject, time is often an obstacle. We don't have any other obstacles. No doubt young people want to come to school to do something. And those who have come to school, they do. I love interns immensely. It's because new ideas come to school with trainees. Let's say, me and the trainee together, as has happened in several cases in the last few weeks, I think we're going to have very good hours. My experience and his ideas, and when we put them together, it's super! I don't see any obstacles right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U52	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Liis Reier! Your report, which has been distributed to us on this paper, is programmatic, there is nothing to think about. I particularly want to address the issue of career opportunities. It is perfectly understandable that each person wants to develop in his or her profession, move forward, receive additional education, additional opportunities, and additional time. I ask you this: could the Estonian education system have any contact with South Korea, where such a move was made decades ago? When young people did not go to school as teachers, teachers' salaries were capitalised, and today the students' competition is 15 to become teachers. And the results are also shown in the OECD [statistics] and the comparative tables. What, in your opinion, is the key to making this career model [better] and to increasing students' interest in teaching?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U54	Well, the model is actually completely, as you just said, written down. When a young person, a capable young person, makes his or her choices, it seems to me now, looking at these capable young people, that they still choose attractive professions by not forgetting their pay. And if he knows that there is a competition and he has very good results and he can choose where he's going, then he'll choose those specialties where he's influential and where he gets a decent salary. The teacher's specialty doesn't belong in that line. We want us to have the most able people to work as teachers, and that is why it is precisely with pay that this profession needs to be made attractive. And just as I wrote down, a career is actually possible. Maybe we need to discuss together a little bit about whether this career must always be vertical or whether it can also be horizontal. This means that you take on more responsibility in different areas, and it also gives you the opportunity to earn more. A horizontal career means that there is a huge number of areas in the teaching profession that require serious specialization, and a teacher can pursue careers in these narrower areas. But in any case, the choices of young people, and the choices of capable young people, are influenced by how attractive and how competitive wages are.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U55	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U56	Thank you. And thank you for that nice presentation. But I'll start with the trivialization. You see, there has been no aristocracy in Estonian society, no barons and no vone. Well, that's what the intellectual community is doing today. And it fills you very well. But as you know, you have to train people to be an intellectual. Rights are also needed to fulfil this role. Aristocracy needs rights, not a servanthood. I am now quoting one of the teachers' memos: "In the early 2000s, the philosophy of the service culture was strongly promoted in Estonian society, which also reached schools and designed the reputation of the teacher as a service provider, not a highly qualified specialist. In this context, the rights and opportunities of the teacher to stand up and defend their principles have been undermined over the years, both in relation to students and parents. " In a slightly different key, you also addressed this issue. But this is my question, if you agree with this statement, should the legislation be amended first, or is it purely a matter of society's attitude, in order to confirm teachers' rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U57	I'll start a little further. I myself began my teaching work when much was said about the teacher being a servant and the client being a king. At the time, we, especially the young teachers, were greatly disturbed by this: in what sense, we have chosen such a fierce specialty as how we are compared. At the moment, I would either not use these comparisons at all or I would not criticise them because I believe that every servant is also a very valuable employee in our society. Now about teachers' rights. It seems to me that the law does not always have to be the law that governs the law. The teacher himself, to a large extent, sets his own influence and how he is viewed. But once again, I'm going to get back to teaching to those people who may be able to raise the prestige of this profession with their personalities. This requires making this profession attractive for young people and making them run or invite or in any way attract those young people who are able to raise the prestige of this profession with their own person.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U58	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U59	Thank you, good waitress, deep bow, thank you very much. I think one teacher with shining eyes from this speech chair in the Riigikogu is a real example of why we are in this position in the PISA ranking table. You spoke of your students who said yes, they would be ready to go as a teacher, but abroad, and, if I understood correctly, one important consideration was certainly pay. I agree that this is a matter of priorities and choices, and this budget certainly does not give so much importance to these priorities today or does not help [help teachers] to hire them. But I really wanted to ask you about the career model. As you said yourself, it is vital for young people to do important, meaningful work. When are our school leaders really ready to motivate the teacher, to develop if we leave the money aside? What are their skills, abilities, or careers, always designed by the driver?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U60	Thank you for your question. And maybe some school leaders will listen to this meeting today. I think there are a lot of different people among our school leaders. There are comforting, those who are accustomed to continuing on the old track, but there are very bright and innovative school leaders who realise that innovations do not always mean the most old-feeting, but innovations mean that we have to keep what is valuable and we need to grub out what is outdated and simply creates an additional burden. And there are a lot of school leaders who are consciously giving young people a chance. We even have a start-up teacher program in the country, and I know that schools are invited to join it. When entering this program, the head of the school tells the young teacher that he is supported in every way possible by offering suitable working time, mentorship. We have such schools and such school leaders, and I believe that a good example will continue to spread if we can spot it and show it more widely.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U61	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U62	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, Thank you very much for your very interesting presentation and their meaningful answers. I am used to talking about the need for more money for health care, and no doubt more money is needed there. But if I admit honestly now, education is the best measure of health policy, if you could say so. If every child gets enough effort, credit for what he has done, and feels like a member of the team, then we don't have to worry so much about these healthy years of life either and how to raise them. But the kids are different. Not everyone has special educational needs, but they have not been taken out of the same form. Some may need more complicated tasks, some need more specific words, some need more clarification. What are these opportunities to better support the teacher so that children get exactly what they need? Do you think these would be smaller classes? Are these certain skills that should actually be better provided in teacher education? Is this really an increase in the number of special needs teachers, social pedagogues? Or is the solution just, I don't know, special schools or separate schools? But in fact, these skills are needed by the holder of each class.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U63	Now, a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U64	I understood the question very well. Thank you. I think that, if I now start moving forward from the back, that since the law tells us that four support specialists are needed at each school, there is no argument here that four support specialists are needed in each school. There's not enough. But what you could say is that the actual job or the major job with all the students is done by the teachers in the broadest sense. Our teachers are very good, but very many of them are not specially trained and educated, for example, in the field of special education. It seems to me that all specialized pedagogical techniques are actually very suitable for ordinary people. Everyone feels really good when we use these techniques. And I think that in recent years, there is still a serious lack of regular or highly meaningful or highly targeted training in the teachers' schedule. Comprehensive preparation for support for all children is essential. And when I turn to the beginning of this question, one more thought. It seems to me that if there is one child in need and there are too many actors around him, all these actors are confusing the child instead. It would be more useful for teachers to be very well prepared. Still, some people are a little better suited to some people. For example, if there is a teacher who would be ready to support the child, to check whether he or she is carrying things, whether he or she has done her homework, whether he or she is in a good mood, etc. I must have written down somewhere here that, in fact, for a teacher, it's still a no-brained employment relationship. But the number of teachers providing support to such students could be increased. Or it could also be a piece of work from a teacher's day-to-day work that he has some students he's keeping a closer eye on. But it cannot be denied that it takes time, resources and more labour again.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U65	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U66	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Liis Reier! First of all, I will take the floor to say thank you. Thank you for saying the most important word at the beginning of your introduction, I think you are proud of your profession. I'd like to hear a lot more about it in society. I'm still asking. And I ask you about what you referred to in connection with teaching during the spring COVID. I occasionally talk to some of my acquaintances who have the idea that it will soon be possible to conduct the class in such a way that the students sit in front of the screen and somebody tells them so exciting about the subject that everyone is watching. I think you've given a pretty good answer to what's really going on in class and what you need a teacher for. But the question is, how do you see the information technology tools and this transition in your school, and what the role of the teacher can become or become in it. How much of these IT tools will help us, and what role will the teacher play in the future? Do you think that's gonna change? I just see that some people have the expectation that machines will sort of replace them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U67	Thank you. I think that school is definitely not the first place that information technology will replace people. This can make some things more operational and easier in our work. Let me give you a few examples. Maybe to start with the fact that when I look at empty spaces in today's hall, basically everyone has a chance to watch the broadcast. Do you think the person who sits behind the screen right now and maybe has opened the screen, but at the same time reads some more paper or does something else, talks to a friend, or solves sudokuk how carefully he can keep up with the idea? I imagine that you, who are in this Chamber, are much more concerned about this subject than those who watch through the screen, but can also do other things at the same time. That's one thing. What opportunities personally gave me during distance training were the entirely new e-solutions that were quickly learned, under compulsion? I am able to perform some tests, tests and tasks in such a way that I can give feedback more quickly through them, and the feedback is hugely important. Very many teachers, for example, use the fact that if individual consultations or some kind of confrontation or conversation are needed and we are unable to find, for example, a suitable time for meeting this student before or after hours on a school day, then we will have an online interview in 15 minutes, one at the end of the world and the other at the end of the world, these conversations were held and things were done, whether it was a response or a consultation, whatever. We can meet parents now, where there is no favorable face - to - face presence in one room. We are getting bolder and we are getting better, and this spring has certainly benefited. But I continue to believe that you, who you are today, in this Chamber, have listened most attentively.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U68	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U69	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! Dear colleague! I was very pleased that many of your students wanted to be teachers. But for them to stay in Estonia, they want to get a decent salary and see that they also have a career in the teaching profession. It's an important idea. But I'd ask you from this angle, when a young teacher comes to school, she has this passion and a little glow in her eyes. But often young teachers burn out quickly because the burden is high and there is a great deal of bureaucracy. Question is, what should you do to keep this young teacher passion and shine?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U70	Thank you. People are different. I can't help but say that when I was a young teacher 20 years ago and I only had 12 hours a week to prepare. And I had started working in September, by Christmas I went to college at the same time, of course, I was so over that I went to my headmaster and cried and said I wouldn't be able to make it, I wanted to give my resignation. At that point, my school principal asked me this question: "Liis, don't you have a conscience? " And I, of course, said it was. And I stayed. I was hanging in there somehow. But maybe I would have liked at the time when I didn't really have the load, maybe a little more of that kind of handshake and advice and maybe praise. What is immensely positive about the teaching profession, and what is not to be underestimated at all, is the direct feedback of students, which gives a great deal of strength and a great deal of joy and a great deal of will to come back again. But that is exactly what I would have liked, and I think that the young people today also want to say that colleagues would say just as well and that colleagues would say that we are extremely happy that you are here, because otherwise we should share your work and do more. So as a teacher now working at school for 20 years, I will at least try to follow the idea that if there is a young colleague or just a starting teacher, regardless of age, I want to support him and congratulate him and thank him for coming at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U71	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U72	Thank you. Honourable teacher! Thank you very much for this excellent presentation and the freshness of this hall! Now, what I want to bring up is that you were talking about specialization in schools. We have a teacher's and teacher's view today, and here I am trying to understand the teacher's view. The specialization of schools on the one hand is, like, a subject-based, sector-specific, and, on the other hand, an individual based on the performance of students. I am asking that, depending on the ability of today's teachers, for example, for students with special needs, disabled pupils, should there rather be special schools or should they still be included in as regular a programme as possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U73	Thank you. I have thought about this very much myself, and I believe that perhaps the best solution would be to have a regular school where there are people who are better able to deal with this special needs student, for example. That the majority of students are ordinary students, but it is known that there are, for example, better professionals in this school who are able to deal with the problem of activity and attention. Or in this school, for example, there are better conditions for students with reduced mobility to get from one floor to the next. Otherwise, everything is normal, but there is some nuance that helps students to cope better with certain differences. That teachers at this school are better prepared. Clearly, we need education close to home. It's very difficult to arrange. But in larger centers, it's probably possible. And I think Tartu is a pretty good example of how to organise your education system.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U74	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Now I ask Professor Margus Pedaste, head of Pedagogicum, University of Tartu, as the next waitress. We have 15 minutes to present him, and then 30 minutes to answer the questions. I would like to remind you once again that all members of the Riigikogu have two questions for all rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U75	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Co-thinkers in the wider world! To date, two research problems have been identified. Firstly, teacher post-growth is not enough, and secondly, the teaching profession is not sufficiently valued. Why do these problems need to be resolved? Based on the theme setup, the post-growth of teachers and the value of the teaching profession are fundamental to the sustainability of the Estonian state. I thank the Committee on Culture for raising the issue. I agree that these are very important problems, and I see that there are opportunities for universities, schools and kindergartens to solve them, but more generally for society as a whole, including the Riigikogu and the government. I'm gonna give you some background information first and then I'm gonna make six proposals. To begin with, the teacher is primarily human. I've won the Republican Biology Olympiad three times, but that doesn't make me a good teacher yet. The knowledge and skills of subjects are few if they are not able to teach others. At least three times, the students have chosen me to be the school's favorite teacher, but that doesn't make me a good teacher either. There is little liking if it does not involve opening up students' potential. I've been teaching biology at school for 15 years and teaching teachers at university for 20 years, but that doesn't make me a good teacher, either. There is little experience, unless it is systematically studied, studies carried out by others will not be considered and will not be self-study. A dozen of my school students are working as teachers today, and that is what I am delighted about. I think that makes a teacher a good teacher. When we talk about the crisis of teacher follow-up and the need to replace teachers because of age or early school leaving, it is important that every teacher works in school or kindergarten for at least 10 years and that he wants to do this job, do so with joy and raise the growth. Today, the stature of Estonian teachers among OECD countries is one of the longest, but young teachers do not want to stay in school for long. The figure shows that up to five years, 41% of teachers under the age of 35 want to work as teachers. There are not so many in this age group in any other country or economic area that participated in the OECD study. Acting for teachers' follow-up must start already in kindergarten and continue in comprehensive school and upper secondary school. The quality of each teacher must be measured by how many of his pupils have become teachers. This information must be added to each teacher of the Estonian Education Information System in the current era of registers. Then we can explore what kind of teacher activities will lead to solving the problem. Teachers' follow-up depends largely on schools and, more generally, on society as a whole, our attitude and example, on valuing the teaching profession. I am pleased to see that the fascinations of teaching in the media are also being shown. Each job has concerns, challenges and joys. Our choice is to highlight. I will turn again to the OECD study TALIS 2018, which shows, five years earlier, on the basis of a comparison with the data collected in 2013, that teachers now perceive the value of their profession in society almost twice as much as five years earlier. Today, we are among the middles of the other OECD countries and one of the largest risers in this five year period. Of course, we still have a long way to go to Singapore, South Korea, Canada, Shanghai and Finland, but we do not have a decline like that in Belgium, the Netherlands, Iceland and many other European countries or New Zealand. What can I do? Studies show, and today it has also sounded like a teacher needs challenges. But it takes a career ladder. A starting teacher and a teacher with great experience should not do exactly the same work in school. Just as in the university we have teachers, assistants, lecturers, docents and professors, it should also be possible for the school to move vertically on the career path. Just as a professor in a university focuses on education technology, another on teacher education, a third on special education, it should also be possible for a horizontal movement at school. Substantial cooperation between teachers with different competences can lead to new ideas and solutions to important problems both in school and in society at large. By setting up a system of professional standards, we laid the foundations for a career model seven years ago, but today we see that teachers, universities and the Ministry of Education and Research must combine their wisdom to offer career models to schools and kindergartens. It is very important, based on today's knowledge, to focus, like Sweden, on teachers who are already working and to link models to wage policy. It is the task of politicians to allocate resources so that remuneration can be differentiated according to the scale and complexity of the tasks and the related responsibility, or that a free semester can be taken for self-development and development or research. Today, only five teachers from all over Estonia will be granted this [free semester] competition. If teachers have development opportunities and challenges, their students also want to become teachers more than ever. I will move on from here to the next question and I will talk about a myth that has come up with a bit of a myth on issues today that there is a lack of interested people attending teacher training in universities. I'd love to disprove it. For example, in 2020, 1889 candidates applied to the teaching and education science curricula of the University of Tartu. It does not include applications for study programmes that can be learned either from the scientific side or from the teacher side. Since there are about the same number of people interested in Tallinn University, the total number is significantly higher. By comparison, applications of 676, almost three times less, and 515, nearly four times less, were taken to medical education at the University of Tartu. So our young people want to be teachers the most, but in Estonia, teachers are simply needed much more than any other profession that is trained in universities. Now, if you look at these figures, you can actually see that we're even talking about the competition today. In teacher education, today's competition averages 3.8 candidates for one job. It is true, unfortunately, that this is not the same in all disciplines. In some ways, the possibility of multiple applications distorts the picture. The most critical place for us today is still the number of people who wish to study mathematics and natural sciences; there are too few. For other fields of study, we can receive more students than today if the state wishes to allocate money, but not yet in these disciplines. Nor are we always able to choose enough, so the best possible development work must be done with those who have decided to become teachers. But if the Riigikogu finds that more teachers are needed, then universities are prepared to train them more than the necessary budgetary resources are allocated. The question is also how to encourage the best to make a choice in favour of becoming a teacher. One specific and underused measure here is scholarships. For at least 10 years, the state, through the Ministry of Education and Research, has awarded a scholarship in the field of teacher training. Do you know how many people give this scholarship? A year for 100 students from all over Estonia. The University of Tartu had 51 recipients this autumn, which is 3.9% of teachers' students. And do you know what the size of this scholarship is? 160 euros, and so from the very beginning of time completely unchanged. One might ask whether these figures show that the issue we are discussing today is a crucial national issue and whether this issue is also reflected in the state budget as a 'national issue'. The power to share money in the state budget is in your hands. Today, the state grants funding to Estonian higher education institutions for teacher education scholarships as little as the minimum wage of seven teachers. Almost nothing. The power to share money in the state budget is in your hands. At the same time, more than 1000 students are wanted to graduate each year. We have previously stated that a scholarship should receive at least 50% of students and should amount to at least EUR 500 per month. This would allow more commitment to study, as the student is also a person. When the studies have been completed, then... I would like to add that, indeed, based on international evaluators and studies, it can be said that today Estonian higher education institutions have a very good level of innovative teacher training, which includes a lot of practice and where theory and practice go hand in hand since the first month of university. This is no longer the core of the problem. Once the studies have been completed, it is important that teachers go to work as a school or kindergarten teacher and bet there long enough. Here too, OECD study TALIS shows us directions where we should move, so that the teacher is satisfied with the work and stays longer at school. I mention three major things: firstly, the teacher's success; secondly, the completion of teacher training; thirdly, the existence of development opportunities. These three should be contributed if we want our teachers to work longer at school. When's the teacher gonna be okay? Then, when he is committed, he has completed teacher training and is working on his own development on a daily basis. Today, in order to keep pace with the surroundings of each teacher, at least one day a week must devote itself to studying and learning their activities. Thus, teaching 20 or more lessons per week cannot be expected from the teacher, as might have been expected 15 to 20 years ago or even earlier. No teacher should have more than 15 hours a week on the basis of his duties and responsibilities when we talk about 45 minutes. A starting teacher and a highly experienced pensionable teacher should not have more than ten. The starting teacher is still learning to teach during the internship. Experienced teachers, however, have great potential for advising starting and occasionally advanced colleagues, studying the learning process, developing and adapting educational materials. This is their chance to move on the career path. Maybe we're a little stupid when we're wasting its potential. We are also fools when we scare teachers away from school because they have to work twice as hard as normal. Who are these "we"? It seems to me that the decision is in the hands of politicians here. I'm coming back to the state budget. The state budget determines the salary that school and kindergarten managers can pay to their good employees. Today's budget is such that teachers need to be overloaded. That seems unfair, because the teacher is still human. However, teachers should not be forgotten when valuing teachers' successors and teaching positions. The teaching staff of higher education institutions are also teachers. Teacher training in universities and the education science taught there also require attention. We have very good people. Without a significant budget, the University of Tartu and the University of Tallinn have become among the world's top universities in the field of education in the rankings of prestigious universities. This has once again been achieved in the same way as teachers through an unreasonable workload, because there is simply not enough money. The national operating grant does not even cover the minimum wage of teaching staff. For years, no educational research project has had enough money through the Estonian Research Foundation. We have been rescued by the European Social Fund and the Regional Development Fund and excellent international cooperation, which we have been successful in applying for international research and development grants. Thus, we can also benefit Estonia, but above all, it will benefit the financier, the European Union. The question arises where there is the interest of the state and, accordingly, the support. Yes, well, the Ministry of Education and Research has opened up a number of possibilities for various studies in the field of education, but unfortunately there are still few of them today. Perhaps the question: what is this education nation? It has often been born at the cost of selfless work, and it cannot continue for long. To keep this going, we need to think about what are the priorities in the state budget and how we value cooperation between teachers, teachers and educational scientists. We must value our people's luggage, set clear goals, assess the specific situation and act accordingly. Our choices are in this place. Finally, I would like to make six proposals. Firstly, we need to create more opportunities for teachers to develop and perform various exciting tasks. This is provided by career paths that can be driven both vertically and horizontally, and which offer teachers developmental challenges. They must also be given time to realise their potential. Secondly, students need to be given more opportunities to teach and study together from kindergarten to school. Thus, we give the student the opportunity to feel good about helping another person by teaching him something. Thirdly, we need to find more money for teachers' salaries. In this way we can free up teachers' time for self-development and growth, and the teacher gets the feeling that he is doing well at school and has opportunities for development. So the teacher wants to stay in school. Fourthly, we need to find money to pay scholarships. This brings the best students to study as teachers, so more students need to be taught as teachers. At the same time, it is possible to reduce the workload during studies and to devote more than ever to learning. Fifthly, more money must also be found for training teachers and research in the field of education. Innovation depends on this, as well as the ability of universities to prepare more new teachers and offer valuable professional opportunities for teachers already in employment who need such an opportunity every week. And sixthly, the previous could be summarised in a national teacher training and education promotion program, similar to the IT Academy. More specifically, we have discussed these matters with the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu; you can find more information among these materials. I'm ready to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U76	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Liina Kersna, please, first question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U77	Thank you very much, manager. Honourable waitress! As an alumni of the University of Tartu Pedagogicum, I am very pleased to hear you here today. Thank you very much for your substantive presentation. We know that on average one fifth of the share also says that one third of the class needs educational excretion. But if we have one adult in front of the class, it's very difficult to spot and support every child. It has been suggested that part of the work as assistant teachers should be done by teachers. How do you feel about this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U78	Thank you for your question. In principle, it is a very beautiful proposal. But the reality today is that 70% of students who study at university are already working somewhere. We can't expect them to have a so-called third job. The average age of our teachers at university entrance is more than 30 years today. They are family people and have responsibilities in this regard, so I do not think that this plan is very realistic. In fact, we still need to think about how to find more time for students to devote themselves to their studies. If we had more so that our students were full-time students, then we could start talking about how they could be like maybe another 20 years ago it was typical that if the student is intern, he is 100% a member of this school family. Today, unfortunately, we are seeing more and more students attending four hours of internship and then rushing to another job to earn money.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U79	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U80	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Professor Margus Pedaste! Today there have been very wise thoughts about training and education in this Chamber. All teachers who have taught in Estonian schools over the ages must certainly be acknowledged. Most of them have been women. Although the result of education does not depend on how old the teachers are or what gender they are, I ask: what miracle could attract more men to school? Maybe that's why I had the idea that the news said it was men's day.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U81	Thank you for your question. I'm very bold to say I don't know. I can go back a little bit in time [and say] that before World War II it was so [that more men were in the teaching profession], both in Estonia and actually in many other parts of the world. One conjecture is perhaps that scientists from time to time raise conjecture and do not want to say anything with great certainty, [provement of conjecture] may not always succeed, that it goes hand in hand with valuing the teaching profession. And it is not only about valuing through wages, but also about valuing society in general that we all feel that being a teacher is proud and good. I can speak it boldly everywhere and say that the time I was a school teacher has been the most wonderful, most joyful time for me. And as Liis Reier said beautifully, feedback from students is the most immediate, positive thing I've ever received in my life.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U82	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U83	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Professor Margus Pedaste! Thank you very much for this delightful presentation. We know that many in Estonia are involved in teacher training, not only the University of Tartu and TalTech, but also several non-profit institutions. We have also had this discussion in the Committee on Culture. I am asking here, in a loud voice, what could or should be done differently, so that the teachers' teaching system [of various parts] recognises each other, and whether it is necessary at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U84	Thank you. Indeed, today, the decree of the Minister of Education sets out how teacher training must take place in Estonia. The framework requirements for teacher training have been confirmed for a long time. According to them, teacher training is expected to take place in higher education institutions and include at least one year of pedagogical studies, or 60 credits, in addition to research work on education or final examination, each with at least 15 credits. This means that it is not possible to study under 75 credits in the credit system as a teacher. However, apart from pedagogical studies, there are other professional studies, so all school teachers should have a Master's degree today. Kindergarten teachers and vocational teachers can have a bachelor's degree. This means that it is the responsibility and role of universities. I absolutely agree that in addition to universities, all kinds of other activities that support the valorisation of the teaching profession and the acquisition of pedagogical skills will also play an important role in society, complementing what universities offer. And on that, you can say, I'm only glad. The question is precisely that we perceive the sharing of these responsibilities and tasks, the sharing of roles between them, which is what universities play, and what is the role of others. This is where you just have to sit at each other's desks and discuss more about how we can achieve the same goal, because we have the same goals, but the starting points and opportunities are sometimes different.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U85	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U86	Thank you! Honourable Professor! I have received higher education in another system, Soviet times, and my psychological profession was accompanied by a teaching profession. That was the case back then. But my question is about scholarships. I would extend them not only to students studying as teachers, but to all students in higher education. I received 40 rubles scholarships in my time, and I think it was absolutely necessary and important support for the student. Indeed, students could receive a scholarship of more than €160 and the number of beneficiaries could be much higher, but should we not also have paid higher education in universities and the possibility for students to take higher student loans? Could it bring more money to universities to organise their studies better? I don't have a specific question. But how do you feel about this multi-layered or multi-course method of financing?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U87	Thank you for your question. Yeah, absolutely. As I said as the last concluding point, I think that we need to approach [this problem] as a national programme for teacher training and the promotion of educational sciences. Not only should scholarships be paid under this programme, but a broader reflection should be made on how to support the problem-solving process at present, for example, how we can support teachers' follow-up more so that our'replacement' needs are covered. In this respect, I agree that, in principle, there is obviously a need to consider also where paid higher education could work and in which places it is not. In the case of teacher education, I can see that, as this is a matter of national importance, I do not think that [paid education] is right. Thinking back to the time when paid curricula could be done a little more widely than today, very few paid learners came into teacher training at the time. I don't think at the first moment we'd find enough students. However, in the field of education, we do have some paid curricula as English-language, international curricula, and it is likely that Estonia's success in the educational landscape will make it quite clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U88	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U89	Good Chairman! Good Professor Pedaste! Five years ago, teaching curricula were re-educated at universities, both at the University of Tartu and at Tallinn University. We've both been involved in this process. It's been five years. How do you look at what has succeeded in this curriculum reform? Are universities still planning to review these curricula and, if so, to move in which direction? I know that we in Estonia in general have received a high international assessment of good curricula. But one thing is an internationally high assessment, the other is your intuition as a recognised educational scientist in dealing with your colleagues and different target groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U90	Thank you for your question. I'll make it clear that even more time has passed. More than seven years ago, the changes were made. And I wouldn't rely so much on my opinion and my gut as on our research. We have been studying the situation since these changes. As a background, I will first of all talk about the two basic changes that we made seven years ago. One of them was that we significantly increased the level of internship in teacher training. What's the difference? At first, before this change, the practice volume was mostly 15 credits, now it has at least 24 credits. The capacity of traineeships has been significantly increased. But the second, even more important, change in practice was that we started to carry out the internship from the first month of study. In the past, it was mostly the case that everything was learned and then went to school or kindergarten as smart, but now all the students are going to practice in September and are going to go hand in hand with, parallel practice and acquire theory. Another important change was that we reviewed all the content we teach in general pedagogical subjects, and [we explained] how these [substances] interact with the didactics of the field. This review actually went hand in hand with the updating of the teacher's professional standards, so the two processes took place somewhat in parallel. Universities training teachers, as well as associations and associations of teachers, actively contributed to this, in addition to associations of school leaders, etc. I think we have quite well agreed on what the teaching profession should be today and what skills are necessary for this. We have now ensured in all Estonian higher education institutions which train teachers that all our curricula ensure the development of these skills. Back to the research. Indeed, for seven years, we have assessed the consistency of practice and theory in our teacher training with instruments of international research, which are used more widely, such as in the United States and Stanford University, Norway and elsewhere. This is one of the main issues internationally. Year after year, we have seen a positive development. Some of these major leaps have been made in making changes, but we can say today that our teacher training is indeed much better today based on research than it was seven years ago. How's it going? We change the content of teacher training almost every year. It's not like we're gonna get something done, and then we're gonna apply it for a long time. Last year, we began by, for example, learning the subject "Education inclusive" by all students studying as a teacher at a university. Let us take this into account, too, today, that we are facing a major challenge: the teacher needs more specialised pedagogical skills, but also broader, inclusive education. We have also significantly increased our ability to use educational technology and to invent, test and study new opportunities in teaching. However, in view of the last half of the year, the distance learning and the challenges that have arisen in this regard, we will see that next year, too, we will have to change teacher training curricula. One big issue is what came out of our own analysis: we are not yet sufficiently prepared today for teaching on the methodologies used in distance learning. Perhaps, in fact, we can be even more successful in distance learning than we are today. We saw that often the most effective methods are not applied. This is one thing we need to better integrate into our curricula.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U91	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Thank you for your substantive and thorough report. You also touched the money in your report. In fact, in the early hours of the morning, we also discussed the money here and voted on the increase in teachers' salaries. You've made it clear that you're supposed to have 15 and 10 contact hours, as I understand. Today it's more like 21 or 22. However, such a proposal still means a very large amount of money, because more teachers are needed, which means a higher wage fund and a higher amount in the state budget. Have you calculated this sum? I feel that the amount in the state budget today should be multiplied by 1.5 and should be added to the possible wage increase of 1.5 in order to maintain the existing level. Am I on the right track or what are these calculations?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U93	Thank you for your question. You're on the right track. Without it, we really can't, we can see it. Our so-called chance as university people, as scientists, is to say what we think is right. What is possible and how is possible is, in the end, indeed a political question, because it is a place of choice. I don't know what the other costs can be saved on. I understand, of course, that in order to significantly increase the [teachers' pay] budget, there is a need to close up somewhere [from others]. I can just say what Liis Reier referred to earlier: we have agreed that the teacher's general working time is 35 hours, but in fact it is 40 to 60 hours and the teacher does not have enough time to develop himself, to complete himself, but he needs it, because otherwise he is no longer as good a teacher as he was yesterday, but he becomes a daily, sorry, poorer teacher, because he simply cannot develop himself. That, by the way, was why I stopped teaching at school in 2011. I sensed I couldn't be as good as I wanted to be. This is what prevents the teacher from often being good, and if he can't be good, he chooses another job. That is why we need to find a way to support this work in the way that it is actually worthwhile, given the burden, responsibility and working time it entails.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U94	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U95	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I'll get back to the questioner. The Riigikogu adopted the budget for next year tonight. The increase in the pay of teachers, including kindergarten teachers, the year of the school psychologists' profession [funding], the support of the Estonian-language school for pupils with other mother tongues, was not supported. You said the universities were ready to train more teachers. We know that today there is a shortage of schools, and I might be wrong about a thousand teachers. How much does a teacher training study place cost? And if we wanted to solve the shortage of teachers in five years, what are the investments that we should take into account for the next budgets? Is it possible to answer this question now by "calculating from the head" or are we going to be more specific later? It would be good if the hall heard a little bit about these numbers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U96	Thank you. We've calculated it, and we'd be happy to ask that maybe the Minister of Education can answer. We have submitted precise calculations and questions to the Minister of Education. On several occasions, we have proposed to increase the number of study places in teacher training on an ad hoc basis. If I remember correctly, I can check it out and specify it just in case, the cost of one study place is EUR 7600 per year [Margus Pedaste, according to later specification, is EUR 6500. ]. Today, we are ready to receive significantly more learners in order to alleviate the problem of lack of teachers. As I said, in some places, for example, among kindergarten teachers, we could solve the problem of their shortage quite quickly. [Language Teacher's Curriculum] is the most competitive curriculum in the University of Tartu: 10.4 people for the job. A lot of people say they've been trying and wanting to be a teacher for many years, but they're not accepted. So we have this opportunity. What is important here is that the university needs a long-term goal. This means that we cannot do what happened at the beginning of this academic year, when we were approached in the last days of August to see if you would accept another one, we have money. Can you accept a few more students? This is not the way we can, because we have room constraints, we have emergency preparations for the current distance training, etc. And we also need faculty members, because more students also mean the need for more faculty members. Lecturers are also working at least 40 to 60 hours a week today, with an average load. All of this, unfortunately, comes down to the fact that if we want to recruit new people, we cannot employ them in such a way as to reduce the salaries of existing people.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U97	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U98	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! First of all, I would like to thank both teacher Liis Reier and you, Mr Professor, for presenting an excellent presentation and answering substantive questions. My question concerns the third slide of your presentation, which reflects the proportion of teachers who wish to work as teachers for up to five more years. Looking at this slide here is compared to three countries, Estonia, Finland and Latvia, Estonia is in a very good position among the under 35-year-olds. Unfortunately, among people under 45 or under 54, Estonia is no longer in such a good condition. Is the reason why this desire is shrinking is a great burden and all the other factors you have pointed out here, a small salary, or is there some other reason for it? I can't ask you any more, I'll ask you another question later.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U99	Thank you. First of all, for the sake of clarification, we have the biggest problem in this sense in the case of under 35 years of age, so that they can see that they will probably not work in this job for more than five years. We did an analysis and tried to find out which characteristics, as assessed by the OECD study TALIS, predict the continuation of younger teachers in school. We found out that we actually need to find those who want to be teachers. Those with a teaching specialty for the first choice are more likely to remain in the school for a longer period. Secondly, it is important to have a pedagogical education. This means that the school doesn't just come to try, but goes through extensive studies, invests in its own time, invests in developing its own competence, and then comes. It was also interesting for us that the importance of external motivation came out. The interesting thing is that when we compare younger teachers with older teachers, the importance of both external and internal motivation emerged for parents, but it did not turn out that the internal motivation would predict their longer stay in school. And finally, the lack of barriers to professional development. As Liis Reier said about the beginning of his teaching career, 12 classes a week worked to get no further. Imagine how distressing it is if I can't educate myself alongside this job if I can't read and watch great presentations from my field of study, whether we talk more about the subject field or the pedagogical field. That's what's stopping you. I'm getting back to it, as it sounded right here before, that we're going hand in hand with the load and the pay.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U100	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U101	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, Thank you for a well-structured presentation. I very much enjoyed this concentrated overview of how teacher training curricula have changed in recent years. Looking to the future, you have highlighted the challenge of teaching better how to deal with or integrate digital tools or new solutions. Looking back to spring, when distance learning unexpectedly hit everyone, a very sharp discussion in the public was focused on whether we should have one central digital solution, the places of uploading the agreed means of communication and digital learning, etc., or whether this is an important part of teacher or school autonomy, so that everyone can choose the right tools for themselves. What is your personal position, and what do studies say? What would be a reasonable way for Estonia to go?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U102	Thank you for your question. That makes two sense. One thing is certainly that, first of all, when introducing digital solutions, we must always bear in mind the objective of why we are doing this. If our goal is to create a secure learning environment for the learner, where he should not feel the tension and concern about whether he can find things from different places, then the idea is that yes, we need a single central solution. The second point here is that the answer could also be slightly dependent on the age of the learners we are talking about. The more we talk about younger learners, the more we need a sense of security and a unified approach from all the teachers who teach this student [teach]. In kindergarten, there's usually a group teacher and a couple more people, the situation is a little bit easier. That's where it's more important. The more we get to older learners, the more we want to develop learners' self-regulation skills, including the ability to plan and plan our own learning, to evaluate the outcome of our learning. In that case, we want to steer towards greater autonomy so that we can learn to choose different instruments ourselves. So the answer is that, depending on age, there are more and more choices in the beginning. But when making choices, students should discuss with them why to make one or the other choice and how it will help the student to learn. Perhaps I will come from here to a slightly different subject: alongside the skills and knowledge of subjects, we need to pay more and more attention to general competences, including self-regulation and other competences, such as learning competences.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U103	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U104	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Thank you very much for a very meaningful and good presentation. I will continue with this question, which my good colleague Riina Sikk has already opened a little bit and which I wanted to ask myself. You answered that, too. But really, we know that every year, you update your teaching methodology on how to organise distance learning better. I believe you too have the feeling that distance learning came with the disease, but it will still be when the disease is finally over. How do you evaluate our municipalities and the country in general on this very formal side, on the hardware side, in order to offer this distance learning? What are the bottlenecks? Have you also been able to analyze it so that teaching is successful toward a student, but [not so burdensome for a teacher]? We know that this is quite a burden on the teacher. We are talking about the teacher's heavy burden, but today's situation has actually created this burden more.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U105	Thank you. We can talk about technical readiness in two different places. One is a school that is very well prepared today, and the other is a home that may not always be ready and which is also not coordinated by us. However, five years ago, our own study showed that 97% of students across Estonia have smart devices that enable them to go online and study. But this 3% too, maybe there are fewer of them today; these few students are also important to us. It is important that everyone can learn and unlock their potential. Now, it is also necessary to mention here that it is often more important than this device today to have internet access. Again, the same question: in schools, internet access is mostly good enough, but in homes it may not always be, and it can be an obstacle to us. However, one way or another, we are now seeing that the main issue, the core of the matter, is not about infrastructure, technical preparedness, but rather about attitudes, attitudes and methodologies on how to make effective use of existing technical opportunities. What do I mean by that? I mean, before Signe Kivi's question was that maybe we've been behind for a hundred years or even more in the classroom furnishings, what we saw in our studies at the beginning of the Coronary, in March-April, was that a little bit of the study method used in the classes was going back. Physically speaking together in classes today is very often used in co-worker learning. Students will no longer sit as they did in the Riigikogu, but will sit around the table in several ways and learn from each other and together. They actually learn to teach and get the good feeling that really means being a teacher. However, what we saw at the beginning of the corona era was that a great deal of learning from the so-called wise, or figuratively speaking, it was like transferring knowledge from one wise person to another, as well as video-based teaching from the video about how it works, reading materials, and doing exercises. Such teaching methods are not very modern. The opportunities for collaborative learning, which are actually possible using digital solutions via the Internet, remained in the background. One final thought. What is our challenge, not only in Estonia, but all over the world, and in which our scientists are actually at an entirely cutting edge in creating innovation in the world, is learning analytics and educational data mining. This is where the AI can help the teacher not to replace, but to help and bring to light what is happening in the student learning process, what, being in front of the class, we do not see as well as being inside the class. Moreover, digital solutions actually allow us to understand what is happening in the students' minds better than we can now. This is the future and we hope that our scientists and teachers together will find good solutions here that can be offered to the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U106	Thank you, Professor Pedaste, for an excellent presentation and for answering questions. Let's move on to the agenda. The next rapporteur is the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps. Please, the chair is yours!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U107	Honourable waitresses! Dear Riigikogu! Dear Speaker! Indeed, thank you very much to the Committee on Culture and the members of the Committee on Culture for raising such an important issue and reaching this hall. I am really very pleased, because the upbringing and valuing of teachers is indeed a matter of national importance. It does not have to be said that teachers are the most important supporters of development alongside the family for the new generation, and in this way, of course, also the influence of society as a whole. Teachers and the quality of their work to support the development of each learner depend to a large extent on the quality of education as a whole, with the learner's well-being and future life course, the future of the country as a whole. These are not just big words, for they are true. Our teachers are doing a commendable job, and our children are showing excellent results in all areas of PISA, as has already been mentioned many times in this Chamber today. Of course, it can be said that this is just one study and that the teacher's work is much more varied, but the results are eloquent nonetheless. The sudden change in the organisation of life in the whole society that took place in spring put us in a situation where almost all Estonian families sensed how many challenges the teaching profession was and how important teachers are in society. The digital tool is not a substitute for a person, it is clearer to us now, and we are still in the midst of the difficult conditions that we have to deal with together. At the same time, we face long-term challenges, we must ensure the sustainability of the education system for the coming decades. The foundation of this is the appreciation and support of the Estonian teacher. As a parent and minister, I dare say that teachers are highly valued specialists in Estonian society and are highly valued. But we have to do much more for this in society, at all levels. If we look at the 2013 TALIS-studies, of course, the members of the Riigikogu know this, then we can see that in 2013 only 13% of teachers felt that they were valued by society. This figure had, fortunately, risen to 26.4% in 2018. And among the teachers who took office in the last five years, optimism was even greater. In fact, 39% of young teachers feel that they are valued and valued. We must make every effort to ensure that, as parents and colleagues, but also, of course, as school leaders and school managers, and as representatives of the state, we help to make teachers feel valuable. After all, our teacher is good, wise, patient, and dedicated. Each small step is important, for example, to take an interest in how our close teachers, familiar teachers, or teachers we are dealing with more indirectly, and whether we can help them do their job even better. We also say thank you to the teachers, which we sometimes use quite little among our people. We thank them for their day-to-day work. In addition, small but important statements of support for the head of school from the municipality and the state. We all have a shared responsibility so that the teacher can do his job well and feel supported and valued. Our teachers have taken us to the best countries in the world [in the field of education], and we are looked up. Even in today's distance learning experience, it is incredible how many, even dozens of countries, have asked what we are doing and how we are doing. Of course, we can say that we have contributed very much to and continue to contribute to e-learning tools. We have a variety of digital literacy programmes, digital textbooks and other digital learning materials, and our efforts go back years. The distance learning period simply brought it all up, but that time also highlighted concerns. For example, we are proud that digital SEC textbooks now exist in the Opiq environment, which will certainly help at least partially to improve the overall situation. One of the platforms has both the SOP and the SRC teaching materials, which provide assistance in what we all see and what has been repeatedly pointed out here today.[I mean] how diverse and diverse our classes are today. Teacher's time has also been discussed today. The teacher's working time is a topic that the Estonian Educational Workers' Association has addressed in its studies. A great deal has also been raised about what it means to actually work 35 hours a week instead of the usual 40 hours. Of course, it should be taken into account that teachers are different, but survey TALIS 2018 says that the average working time of Estonian teachers is estimated by them to be significantly over 40 hours. The situation is constantly complicated, and that is what worries us. Tired, the teacher is much less capable than he really could be. The teacher is in a difficult situation all the time. In order for him to be inspiring, supportive and emotionally balanced and to prevent his burning out and ensure quality teaching, it is necessary to better set out the real working hours of teachers. If we want to move quickly, we have to go alone. But if we want to get far, the only solution we have as a small nation is to go together. Time needs to be found to bring thoughts to places where they cannot be taken from daily teaching. We have the opportunity to take time to think, to feedback. To this end, a national educational scholarship has been introduced, allowing for the taking of a free semester for professional development and new initiatives. As Professor Pedaste has already said, these five national educational scholarships are only the first steps. As Minister for Education, I have to say that their spread and popularity definitely still needs to be encouraged. It will then be possible to grow these first seeds to a significant extent, because what could be more important if we talk about career paths and career opportunities than free semesters to be used for self-development and re-review, or with an education scholarship to raise our level of education, for example, to obtain a doctorate. It is these steps that we need more support and understanding. In order to ensure that teachers succeed, the [target group] is crucial for starting teachers, as has been said today by teachers' spokespersons, and the Committee on Culture has also mentioned this repeatedly. On the positive side, it has to be said that initiatives and programmes supporting [the starting teacher] have been pleasantly numerous in recent years. Bringing out what the starting teacher needs and what else we can do. Several such steps have also been taken. However, with regard to teachers starting general feedback, the same confirms once again: when a teacher comes to school, the workload is not spread, but rather the most uncomfortable activities are given to a young person. But starting teachers are not really ready to work full - time or even more than that. All those school leaders who see a new, exciting, very bright-eyed young person who would like to change many things at school should, in cooperation with the mentor and supporter, be the ones who say: wait, we will do everything step by step, because then we will not lose this fine starting teacher in three years. Since 2013, national hourly rate regulation has also been in place. But, as I said, together, we must seriously acknowledge that this has caused quite a lot of tension in the school community. The differentiation of school leaders is quite different and it is generally felt that, if the teacher's career model is now to be implemented in the near future, the question of remuneration must be made significantly more transparent. Teachers' pay Indeed, compared to the OECD average wage, we still have a long way to go. However, if you look at the budgetary proportion, what we have received in general education, there is nothing to be ashamed of. Therefore, if we keep a constant eye on teachers' wages in terms of continued growth and development, so that they actually continue to grow in numbers and do not lead to new responsibilities, then we have certainly made an important step forward. We are currently the country with the fastest wage increases in the OECD countries, and I believe that if we continue to do so, what Professor Pedaste has already pointed out will be confirmed once again. Believe it or not, today the competition in the field of education is as great as in all other popular disciplines, and this change has taken place instantaneously, in about the last two years. So we've done something right in society. You can't stop. And the question we addressed in this budget procedure that, unfortunately, wage growth in the public sector has stopped this year is that the Alliance of Educational Workers has rightly been set up. It's a question of perspective. We need to look very closely at how to give teachers their sense of perspective back to the budgetary strategy in the spring. That's the keyword for this career model. One important change, which has come from teachers themselves, is linked to initial support. This amount was initially divided into rather small parts, but now it has to be paid out in one time, a total of EUR 12783. We added [the circle of its recipients], a good Riigikogu, as you remember, also support specialists. Indeed, I must admit that the support specialists who go to school have found it quite nicely. If we look at what else we need to do, we will soon meet in discussions on the education development plan. The development plan for education for the years 2021 to 2035 highlights in several places the same topics that the good Committee on Culture has brought to this great hall. The question is how, and with what steps, we can give even more support to today's education system and teacher, in terms of secondary growth. What are the proposals or the next steps? Once again, the development plan is more than a thousand different events and offers, put together in a rather compact document. This draws out the support of school leaders, as the school environment is greatly influenced by the school manager. It is also pointed out that we need to continue the municipal training programme for educators, because the poor educational staff in the municipality is also very demotivating. Certainly we will also continue to talk about a self-leading head of education, because this very active, self-supporting and learning director, the headmaster, is our keyword. And what is to deny here, aside from the minimum wage for teachers, I certainly agree with the spokespersons in this, that it is better to review the career model together and to admit honestly that it is time to bring back grades that depend on both vertical and horizontal movements and in which case the teacher can leave school and come back later. It will certainly be necessary to examine whether, at least in certain respects, teacher qualification rules support the transition to the private sector, for example, and then return. With regard to such proposals, good Riigikogu, I ask you to engage. Of course, I'm ready to answer your questions as well. Once we have confirmed the education development plan, these good ideas should also reach the action plans and specific working groups in order to come before you with legal initiatives and, if necessary, legislative changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U108	Thank you, Minister. But before I give colleagues the opportunity to ask questions, we must put an extension of the sitting to the vote. This request has been made to us by the Committee on Culture. First of all, it's a sergeant. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the Committee on Culture's proposal to extend the sitting until the item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U109	There were 26 members of the Riigikogu in favour of extending working time, and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The hearing has been extended until two o'clock. Ladies and gentlemen, the first question is put by Liina Kersna, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U110	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear Minister, Instead, I would like to ask about the follow-up of teachers in recreational education, which is just as critical as that of teachers in general education schools. I know that you have met regularly with representatives of the teachers of interest education, and that is excellent. You have also discussed with them how to link the salaries of teachers of interest education to those of teachers of general education. Maybe you could introduce us to your thoughts or plans. What can the state do to ensure competition and follow-up among teachers of recreational education?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U111	Thank you for your excellent question. This issue is particularly relevant today when, unfortunately, in the face of rather sad corona figures, we are having a lively debate with health representatives on the extent to which restrictions on education of interest should be extended. In this sense, this issue is very topical today. I and the wider education community have finally reached a consensus that education is not only the one [which is acquired in school], but the person in his choices is also very much supported by what is happening outside the core subjects of the school or in the hobby centre. These models are very different. The reason why I put into practice a round table on recreational education already several years ago was that we were faced with a number of challenges, including the subject of teachers and their follow-up. But the main focus was that the specialists of interest education felt that they had somehow disappeared. The debate was about whether what is out of the formal curriculum of general education is considered youth work or education. Youth work seemed to be extremely necessary for educators, but not just a possible definition of their activities. Today, this [definition] has become much more detailed, for example in the selection of social partners and in a number of wider activities, such as whether dance is a sport or an education of interest. So there have been a lot of new issues. But now I come to your question. There have been two fundamental proposals. The first proposal is to use the same model that has already been approved by the Riigikogu, and this is public support for interest education. It has been stable in the country's budget strategy, with a total of EUR 15 million in several years. [Proposal] is to raise this support for whatever amount.. 10 or 15 million have been talked about and then tell the local authorities that it is in support of an existing education of interest. The debate, as you remember, went to the Riigikogu about whether this 15 million was directed towards new areas of interest education, new activities and new groups. For example, music schools, art schools, or the technical field, where the body is functioning and where wages are being raised, have a conflict. So the first [proposal] has been to increase the same support that does not require any additional decision. The second [proposal] is to use the model used in our general agreement that early childhood education is important. Since 2017, if I am not wrong or it was 2018, I have to remember, until last year, the kindergarten teachers and school teachers have gradually gained 100% if they have the same qualifications and 90% if they are less qualified. This model looked like the state supported local authorities on the basis of certain coefficients, helping municipalities in a more difficult situation. It was quite a long debate on how to create this coefficient. In any case, there was a follow-up. Something similar has now been considered in the case of [even in the case of recreational education]. Both models have been on the table. There has also been a third thought on the table that certain types of hobbies could be part of a public payroll fund. But I must admit that there is probably no very strong consensus on this, because local authorities are investing more than EUR 400 million in recreational education and youth work today, and there is no point in replacing the very good work of local authorities. So let's talk about this extra support. These are the thoughts of the Round Table in general.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U112	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. At the end of October, the Committee on Culture had the opportunity to listen to third sector partners on teacher follow-up issues, such as the NGO Youth School, Back to School, Replacement Teachers' Mediation Program, Early Teacher Support School and Empowerment. This meeting gave rise to concerns that everyone pointed out. And, you know, they weren't talking about money. I asked about the money, about the budgets, which of course they were ridiculously small, an apology for the expression. But they themselves pointed out that our system is too bureaucratic and that there is no cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research. The bureaucratic is precisely in the sense that if a substitute teacher is needed at school, he is needed immediately, but it takes an extremely long time to complete contracts and complete all these procedures. But that's it. Given Estonia's current situation, is the Ministry of Education and Research prepared to work with third sector partners to alleviate the problem of teachers so that they can be a support mechanism for the Ministry of Education and Research?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U114	Thank you, excellent question! I would like to commend the excellent staff of the Ministry of Education and Research, because I am absolutely convinced that as of today, very many of them have very long work experience outside the Ministry. They have really come to the ministry as a teacher or an active lecturer precisely such, say, very successful experiences in one sector or another. Several have also come from these programmes. If they were really complaining, I'd have to check with our deputy chancellor and department chiefs. Rather, I have the impression that this is all we are talking about at the development plans or management meetings of the Ministry of Education and Research. Once again, I assure you that we are very open to our large social partners. In the case of teachers, for example, it is a Chamber of Teachers; on the trade unions side, it has been a more traditional [partner] association of teachers, of course because of the size of the EHL. But all of these initiatives, part of these programmes have come purely through NGOs and as own initiatives, but some of them have also come from various European measures, where development plans or working groups have shown that a particular issue is a problem, and then European funds are offered on a project basis to find a solution to this problem. I absolutely confirm that the Ministry of Education and Research and I, as Minister, are ready to take all such fine initiatives. I have given some examples here today, such as the start-up teacher's programme, based precisely on the same citizens' initiative in which they took the initiative, worked on [the subject] and discussed it. They have been teachers themselves who have recognized the bottlenecks when they go to work, such as the school manager does not support them or push all the uncomfortable topics [for the starting teacher], and no one really cares very much. Then the young one goes away. And only when the young person is leaving will they say, "Wait. " I think the previous speaker mentioned here today that at one point he too had this crisis. That's pretty normal for a new job. The question is, what is the support?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U115	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U116	Thank you, President of the sitting. Minister! Last night, in the late hours of the evening, we discussed the budget for the following year and voted on the amendments. The amendments tabled by more than one political group also concerned increasing resources in the field of education. They weren't approved here. However, if we look at the state budget for next year, we will see a figure of 5.7% for the teacher follow-up measure. We heard that young teachers could have contact hours not more than 15 hours and those who have already had a pension before their eyes, not more than 10 hours. This is only one possible measure to help teachers and the education system, leaving aside, for example, a reduction in the number of children in the class. But in order to realise it, we need additional resources. A simple calculation says that we should increase the payroll fund for teachers one and a half times, and only then can we talk about the raise. My question is this: how do you feel about it and can we do it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U117	Thank you for a good question. Yeah, these debates have been going on for years. What should the teacher's minimum wage be to achieve some kind of critical limit, which I do not want to say is sufficiently motivating to be able to live? [If it is in place,] the remaining resources could be diverted to other bottlenecks. After all, we all understand that when planning the state budget, it is always the case with each allocation that is also the case with this budget [many things to consider]. What could be more desirable to me than finding money in the field of education, but it had to be considered how much we are prepared to increase the percentage of our loans. This led to difficult decisions. I am, of course, ready to tell you today that in the state budget, the education sector itself also has the means to raise the pay of teachers. But the question wasn't that, it was a matter of principle. Since a considerable part of our budget is still based on loans taken, we are proud that this percentage is very low, is it the best time for wage increases in the public sector at the moment? I think we'll be back to this debate in months. This year we all hope together that there will not be an emergency situation, and then the country's budgetary strategy will also have to be confirmed. Now whether we are prepared to significantly reduce the burden on teachers. Basically, it's the same thing as a raise. I would say that I look at the teachers' representative organisations and ask what path we choose. Do we still need to raise the minimum level.. I understand that the target is still to reach 120%, or are we taking a step, for example, in terms of burdens, or are we taking a strong step towards a career model? All you need is a resource, everything goes into that very category of teachers. But we have to admit to each other that not all three times the budget of the Estonian state is likely to fail in one year. If I may say my personal opinion, the career model and the burden on teachers will come hand in hand in any case. But probably this debate is quite complicated, because, as you well know, there is an immediate question here that one teacher's load in hours and the volume of his homework are the same and that the commitment to the subject of another specialist is rather an auditorial one. In universities, this has in many ways been given to the level of the Council. We have been trying this kind of school leader and autonomy for several years, and the feedback has been very varied. It is therefore rather believed that it could be more regulated by the state. But if we're going to regulate more, we're going to have to go through this debate together, without bringing out any class teacher, so that who has more auditorial work and who needs to make the group smaller, to give the teacher time for other individual work. I do not dare to generalise whether it is purely stature-based or whether other nuances that are quite sensitive in the education system should also be taken into account. It should also include this issue of whether, in some cases, the class could also be larger, for example, if an assistant teacher were to be applied. I guess that's what she asked me about today, if I'm not mistaken, Liina Kersna. In certain cases, this could probably be a better solution. I have seen very closely the practice of several schools, when it has been tried both to make classes very small, to make levels groups, and to go back to a larger class and to direct two teachers. These schools today confirm that having another teacher in the same classroom will have a better effect than reducing the number of pupils in one class. We'll have to take all the nuances into account, but they'll come to the table with a career model. This time you can't do this simple three-step accreditation [system]. Likely, all of us together find that living is not just what we want to see in a career model. These discussions will be quite heated, but I sincerely believe that the result is worth it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U118	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U119	Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. Good Mailis! Since you're standing in front of us, I have a very good chance to ask. Many are watching our sitting, there are many sympathizers, there are certainly those who have already performed here today, and everyone else who sits in this Chamber. What do you say? What about the so-called "push" of the proposals put forward by the Committee on Culture, or even the proposals that come to your table? What are you gonna do with them? How important do you consider them, and will you allow them to be dealt with?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U120	Thank you for your excellent question. First of all, I am sure that this was also discussed in the Committee on Culture, but I repeat here that, by now, several months or even years ago, the teacher follow-up programme has been very active in the work. In the meantime, its activities became more electronic, it was also brought together in real life, and now communication is more electronic. The Task Force on Teachers' Follow-up Programme analyses exactly such proposals. What about these [proposals] really? First of all, we must make sure that these correct and important keywords are included in the development plans. We have promised that the [key words] of the development plans will also be an important part of the country's budget strategy. That's why I think it's important that all the right things are in there. As a second point, it is certainly very, very important that we, together with universities, mainly with two basic universities, but also partly with other universities, find these solutions, some of which, as Professor Pedaste said today, have also come from Tallinn University, such as the innovation centre there. Not only are we waiting, but we will also tell the universities what are the three things that we can do right now so that something happens next year of study. We see that the competitions are very large, we see that in fact very many highly motivated working teachers are not getting in today. What can we do to make sure that these groups are at least at some point in time when we have problems with their offspring? The Ministry, of course, must also give feedback and see what these things are. Do we really need some kind of legislative amendment, some kind of clarification? What are, apart from the budget, the policy-making instruments that we should definitely implement? As far as the budget is concerned, as we all understand, a rather important moment is coming, because we are now using new European funds. Several very important educational initiatives throughout history, when we return to the beginning of the 2000s, have just come with European funds: many digital solutions, investments, as well as a number of soft measures. Once we test them, it's our business if we keep them going. This, too, gives such a rather new opportunity to follow and look at these proposals, without losing out to the organisations mentioned by Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, who are already operating.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U121	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U122	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you for this review. My question concerns inclusive education and the subject that was on the table when the basic school and upper secondary school law was amended. During the previous review, you said that you might have to turn back and see if you could make changes to your career model. How do you feel now? Would it be necessary to amend the legislation, or would there be additional resources for these children to have help teachers and the necessary specialists in schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U123	Thank you. You always have to look back. Inclusive education is one of those important issues where you must never tire out because children always come new and the challenges are always new. We understand from the very strong feedback from schools where these bottlenecks are. Also through the Pathfinder comes [information]. And by now, in a large number of counties, such networks have emerged or have even been concentrated, and information is moving very quickly from there. But the first bottleneck, if I dare to generalise, where we think about supporting inclusive education or special educational needs, concerns early childhood education. Clear steps have been taken in schools to raise awareness among municipalities. At least we recognize the shortcomings. And even though the system is essentially drawn out, it's very, very volatile before the age of 7. Now that we have prepared a development plan for early education and worked on the concept of the draft, it became increasingly apparent that the debate on the Early Education Act will be very much focused here in the Riigikogu on how much we can actually support such early detection and what resources we need for it. Surely it cannot only be that we tell the local authorities to deal with this. In that case, we still need to find tools and solutions. I'm not saying there are no challenges at school. I'm sure it is. And I also understand the question of the questioner. These models need to be viewed differently and flexibly, there are no single motorways leading to a solution. But yes, speaking of resources, I dare say that it is absolutely necessary to admit that the subject of the age of 7 is even more complicated. There are also a number of legal aspects to this. Often, the special need [in kindergarten] has not yet been diagnosed; it is not yet recognised in kindergarten because the parent has not gone through the appropriate route. It's kind of more structured in the school system, and it's more obvious that if you haven't been through this medical journey, we don't know how to help you. [In school] it's gotten more into place somehow. In kindergarten, on the other hand, it is often the question that a child is disturbed or aggressive, but how to help him and what are the solutions that are often left behind. [Resolving the situation] is certainly a matter of cooperation between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U124	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U125	Dear Minister, I come to the subject that Signe Riisalo must have asked about, if I'm not mistaken. This concerned the measure of teachers' follow-up and development. The budget explanatory memorandum states that expenditure will decrease by 5.7% this year to EUR 45 million, with EUR 42.7 million next year. 5.7% is a major decrease. I am asking, therefore, to understand this activity-based budget. What's really gonna change here? The explanatory memorandum doesn't answer that. Something's being cut or some activity changed. But at what cost and for what reason is this amount of money reduced? What is the content of this decrease? I just want to understand this activity-based budget. I'll tell you right now, it's completely opaque. [It says here] is simply a programme: teachers' follow-up, EUR 42 million, next year. But what does it consist of? There are individual random numbers in the explanatory memorandum. The way that sum is divided, I don't get it. I don't suppose anyone understands that. Tell me what the current figure is going to be reduced by 5.7%. Why is this amount going down?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U126	Thank you, good questioner! In that case, as you are from one group, I would like to ask those people who, unlike you, and unfortunately, I, too, understand these details. In any case, I must go to my financial people and ask whether this is some sort of reduction in European action or some kind of structural change. Last year, as you, a good questioner, remember, we debated another question and it turned out that [the amount of money] had been raised from one programme to another. So that's why, like I've learned the last few days, I'm telling you right now, I don't want to be wrong and I don't have all the information right now. I will clarify this fact and send a reply to your group, if that is all right. It is likely that if there had been any cuts anywhere, as a minister, I would know about it. It is therefore more likely that this is some kind of movement of European money, a move from one programme to another or something like that. This is certainly very interesting to the monetary person, but there is certainly no principled decision on content to concentrate anything from anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U127	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U128	Good President! Good minister! We still have two parallel school systems in Estonia, Estonian and Russian. I am concerned about the basic school teachers of the Russian-language school, who work in Russian and who are not even a bit younger than the teachers of the Estonian-language school, rather they are two years older than the average. These people are about to retire. What happens then? Shall we switch to Estonian education? Or where do we get these new Russian teachers? There's no way they're coming from anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U129	Thank you for a very good question. I guess this has been discussed several times here. We have multilingual teachers, we have CDC programs, we have additional modules, but yes, basic training takes place for such an even faculty. In the case of existing teachers, of course, it is very important that today we have taken very many steps in the same information room in terms of education, further training and information [with the rest] in the case of existing schools with a different language of instruction. But we still have a very long way to go. Even such diverse, now re-opening, European measures that allow training, additions, opportunities, are disproportionately low in schools [with a language different from the Estonian language]. That's what our research shows. But when it comes to succeeding, yes, the approach has been very clear that there is additional support in education faculties, but basic education takes place 'evenly' and there is no such distinction as the other-language education system.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U130	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U131	Thank you. Dear Minister, I'm asking about teachers' salaries. A young teacher I knew went to school in 2013, and he just said that during that time his salary had risen twice. This is quite a remarkable achievement and, of course, as you know and I know, it has not come of itself. In fact, over the past six-seven-eight years, governments have given special priority to teachers' salaries. We've tried to keep that $100 raise a year, with and without you. But now, in the coming years, the budget and strategy are baranka for understandable reasons, as you said, the government did not find any money. My question isn't why the government didn't find the money. But what kind of message do you think it carries, and what kind of setback is this, in the light of today's question, in terms of teachers' secondary growth, that the government cut off a very nice sequence to raise teachers' salaries each year?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U132	Thank you. If we stick to this agreement, which was very clearly on the table when the budget was being made, then this issue will only be left out until spring. And in the spring, after months, as the good questioner knows, we are basically talking about four months, we are discussing the country's budget strategy again. If, in four or five months' time, we are going to be back on this subject and talk about continuing to raise teachers' salaries, then I believe that this one vibe we are going to join together in this time of confusion as a big message [doing]. [The current situation] will certainly dilute [teachers]' faith that EUR 100 [every year] is such a logical rhythm. I'm so sorry. I have to admit, I thought, until the end of the year, that at least in part wage increases within the available resources would be possible. But yes, I'll stick to that, if this problem gets a positive solution in four or five months, it's not a fundamental change. However, if a positive solution to the pay problem is not found in the spring, it will certainly leave its mark on what I started by saying that there has been a significant increase in [youth] faith and desire to enter the Faculty of Education. Sorry I'm out of time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U133	It's okay! Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U134	First of all, Minister, thank you for answering the previous question. I look forward to that answer. But I'm taking this opportunity to ask you another question because I want to understand the state budget. Yesterday the Chairman of the Monetary Commission was Aivar Kokk and he spoke about the budget. He said that all ministries were cutting operating costs by 1.7% and that this amount was allocated to IT development. I have a budget for the Ministry of Education here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U135	Let us be very brief because, in fact, the time for questions and answers is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U136	I am asking about the cut that this 1.7% is talking about, it is not in the budget. Is there any other budget that has not been shown to the Riigikogu? If you can answer, then answer how this cut was done and at what expense it was done.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U137	The minister promised to answer in writing, so you will get your answer. I thank the Minister for both his presentation and his answers. Let's move on to the negotiations. The organisers have asked the political groups to speak first. Mr. Onion, are you a representative of the group? That's great! Priit Sibul as a representative of the Isamaa Group in a speech chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U138	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister! Good guests! I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U139	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U140	I would first like to thank the Members and Chairman of the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu for bringing this important issue to our agenda. The subject we addressed today is very broad, multifaceted and complex. But I myself will address only one aspect, which I think is very important. Let it be said at the outset that I consider teaching as one of the most interesting and difficult jobs at the same time. How can you get people to work in teacher positions for both short and long periods of time? First of all, I think we need to start trusting the head of school and the school more. I am also involved in the school myself, and I really enjoyed the fact that the school owner once told me that the school was still run by the head of the school and that the other institutions could be particularly supportive of the school manager. We have clearly overruled and bureaucratized the teaching profession. In seeking rapid solutions, we must first and foremost bear this aspect in mind. It must be possible for the head of the school to decide who is fit to work for the school team. Of course, the teacher is in his place of preparation, but the final decision must be made by the head of school because he has a responsibility. I am convinced that a person who is with children and in front of children must be more important than all the paragraphs written in the law combined. Only then is the presumption that the meaning of the law, not the fulfilment of individual sections, reaches the school. Voldemar Panso, a theater teacher and scientist, has described his teacher, Alexander Tamme, in his book of Memories: "Our course of study was with the old Romans. Tamm said the old Romans were a strong nation, so let us look him in two eyes and he speaks. So it came to pass: we looked in the hearts of the soul into the eyes of Tamme, and he spoke to us of the old Romans. The dam didn't ask anyone, didn't tell anyone to learn, just told them. And weird, what he said, I remember until today. Although a lot of what I learned, I've forgotten. What's this about? At the time, I didn't know the magic of personality in the teaching profession. And what is the power of making the word live? " It is clear to everyone that no matter what laws we write, and no matter how we describe the duties of the trade union, it is not possible to achieve [only through this] the situation described by Panso. Another important question that haunts me. I spoke to a school head this week, and we wondered why it is so that in the seventh grade teaching day [children] have the interest and will to teach the younger ones, but at the end of the upper secondary school it is shrinking. I'm bringing a parallel here this week with Martin Ehala's commentary on the understatement of motherhood. When we think about it, we realise that the public is constantly describing problems in school: problem children, teachers' low pay, hard work, etc. In fact, we need many more descriptions of teachers and school life, as Panso wrote. A teacher is not a service provider, someone who provides a service that is consumed. Education is not something that can be given to anyone. The most important thing is that we need personalities at school who can see children and discover their talents in the light of their wonderful knowledge of matter. It is national wealth, and it requires, above all, a great warm heart, just the will to be a teacher. It's gonna be a miracle. This is where I get to the third problem. Estonian schools employ a large number of teachers who do not meet qualification requirements. They are trained people, those who have knowledge of the subject and who are able to see children and discover their talents, even more so, can support children's development. But it turns out they're not good enough. One educational officer recently explained the extent of the problem to school leaders, pointing out that school leaders know that 20% of teachers do not meet the qualification requirements in educational institutions they run, and stated that if the composition of teachers was properly audited, the non-compliance would be as high as 40%. How is that possible? There are teachers in schools whose teaching is based, for example, on applied higher education acquired at the Tallinn Pedagogical University or on secondary education acquired at the teachers' seminar. There are also teachers who have a bachelor's degree and who have constantly improved. I remember a teacher of physical education who later got the coach's invitation. There are also teachers who hold a master's degree, but who do not have an invitation, which they must undergo formal procedures that seem unfair to the executive teacher. In this way, not only teachers but also support specialists have been excluded. The reason is simple. The training of Estonian teachers has been undergoing major changes in recent decades. For various reasons, many teachers have shattered into the cracks of the lawroom. Several [have been excluded], for example, because they have not worked as teachers for a fixed period of time in the Regulation, but have found some better paid jobs as capable people. I do not want to underestimate the importance of a master's degree in teaching; the direction towards obtaining it has undoubtedly been important and justified. At the same time, I would like to hope that this is not only an informed policy of teachers' representative organisations and educational officials, but also a non-observation. After all, the 'unqualified' people are representatives of the teacher generation who have helped to bring Estonia to the educational results that we all often feel proud of. Even with the percentages mentioned above, it may seem that this problem is small. But no, it's not really small. About 5,000 people who do not meet qualification requirements are employed in schools in Estonia, of which 4061 teachers do not have a master's degree and 946 are without higher education. Yet, there are many among them whose final certificate says "Teacher" and who are actually able as a teacher. Nobody knows how many there are, obviously. But the fact is that we are rejecting those who should actually be grateful to teachers with regulatory standards. This problem was not the focus of the members of the Riigikogu; we have not directly created this situation as a legislator. Qualification requirements are laid down in a ministerial regulation and the decision is based on the competence of teachers' representative organisations and educational officials. It is not reasonable, however, to abandon people who have learned to teach. As I said, it is important to see those who have previously studied as teachers, alongside young teachers, but who do not meet these criteria today. So what's the most important thing? We need people at school who can see children and discover their talents in the light of their wonderful knowledge of subject matter. Children develop not because of us, the law, or the education system, but because of good teachers. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U141	Thank you. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U142	Dear Speaker! I'll take three more minutes just in case, even though I think I can do it faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U143	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U144	Ladies and gentlemen, Chairman of the Cultural Commission! Performers and listeners that way! Too often I have heard the sentence that more initiatives could come from the Riigikogu so that the Riigikogu could play a more leading role in state life and take the initiative. I have to share with you here one of the summers when I met our colleague, Viktoria Ladynskaya, to discuss issues that have touched on both of us very much and could perhaps be proposed for discussion in the Committee on Culture. One of these topics is the follow-up of teachers, and today we are discussing it here in this Chamber. At the same time, I am proud and kind of busy and grateful. It is a very special feeling to stand on this remote control after all these long and meaningful discussions, having looked into those moments of meeting in the eye for those who have just received a message that your pay is not our priority, that the hours that have dragged into your evening at school are none of our business, perhaps you will endure as always, because you care and are motivated by the sense of mission. But the situation is pretty bad. When I began to prepare this speech, I came across a text from Artur Alliksaare dedicated to Paul-Eerik Rummo. There are these lines: "It's so dark that you can't see if it's getting darker. Fire, now fire! Movements yearn for accession, accessions require affection. " Times are difficult, but mergers really require affection and going forward together because together there is power. Members of the Committee on Culture, we have taken a very big step together, despite the world-view differences, and we have been ladies and gentlemen to each other. Colleagues from the Reform Party, our focus on working for a common Estonian-language education and standing up for teachers has been only right and very necessary. During the discussions and hearings in the Committee on Culture, a rather clear pattern has emerged from topics that have repeatedly emerged from different actors. In addition to the important focus issues, the consequences of past political decisions have also emerged, which have not served their purpose as well as it had originally planned. I am talking here about inclusive education. However, the main nodes are three important concerns in different wordings: firstly, pay; secondly, workload; and thirdly, teacher support or motivation package. As a comprehensive model of teacher work, it simply does not work if one important part of the model has been overlooked. We focus here not only on new potential teachers, but also on those who are already the supporters of the education system today and who often find themselves in very difficult situations in their work, and those who have received teacher education at Estonian higher education institutions, but who do not work at Estonian school. Why? The load and content of the work, together with the volume and conditions of work and the guidance of the work, are directly influenced by the attractiveness of the teaching profession. In addition, the mental and physical health of the teacher, ensuring his well-being and preventing burnout, as well as [the limit of work] 16 hours per week, the availability of modern work equipment and career opportunities from rotating jobs and opportunities to raise wages to the availability of educational materials, are also crucial. The working environment and, of course, the opportunities for further training, which we have heard a lot about here today, are also important here. During these hearings, it has also become clear that there has been an increased interest in teacher training curricula. At the same time, we are in a situation where there is still a long way to go from creating more flexible learning opportunities. It is important to do this to the widest possible range of interested people, including those teachers who have already started working at school. One of the new interesting proposals during these hearings was the focus of teaching management, which would bring together the analysis, cooperation and involvement of the teaching profession, as well as popularisation, as a national priority. I am convinced that there has been one of the most meaningful discussions in our committee and in our group on teacher follow-up. This has taken place across political groups and in terms of the seriousness of the situation. We plan to channel all this bulky collected and processed material to the government's desk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U145	Thank you. Marko Šorin, please! Three minutes extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U146	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you very much. All performers today and members of the Riigikogu! What has brought us here today to the grand hall of the Riigikogu is no less important than the welfare of the economy or the sheromen. Teachers depend not only on how high-quality education we can provide in our country, but also on how capable our young people are on a global scale and what our society will become with the help of teachers in the future. All of us have been shaped by our beloved gifted teachers, all of us without exception. The members of the Cultural Commission received a fairly clear picture of what teachers, their preparers, their trainers and learners themselves wanted to see. There have also been excellent presentations here today, and we have all been able to hear it. There are certainly many things in the field of education that we can be very proud of as a nation. For example, international PISA tests confirm over and over again that the knowledge and skills of our young people to use this knowledge are the best in Europe and at the absolute peak in the world. I do not think we need to deny that the Estonian education system is one of the best in the world. Our young people speak many foreign languages because we do not speak much of our own sweet little language in the world, which is why we are forced to speak foreign languages. Our young people are able to express themselves clearly, both in writing and orally, and are strong in the real world. Yes, our young ones stand out in the world. Our education system provides a solid foundation, and for that we must be grateful to our teachers who contribute daily to the life of young people who receive a world-class education that will be their springboard for the future. [Teachers] often do much as a "third" or "second" parent, in some cases as the only parent, a commendable job that children and their parents can sometimes easily thank you for making the heart warm. I recall a personal experience of a friend of mine telling me that his seventh grade child no longer knows how to walk the right side of the road. He was very good at it for the first five years because the teacher had made that clear. Now the parent was a little upset with the school. When I reminded him that teaching it was part of the parent's business, he vexed me and continued to be angry at school. I wonder why. Society has placed a huge burden on teachers' shoulders and we, as a society, must spot the hard work of teachers. The situation has, of course, improved in recent years. The 2018 TALIS survey showed that the appreciation of teachers' self-perceived profession in Estonian society has improved by 12% over the last five years. With this result, we are among the OECD countries. A good word has tremendous power. But the teacher also appreciates the value of his profession in terms of mental health, job satisfaction, and lack of stress. Fifteen years ago, I saw a young teacher who prepared the lesson for the next day until 2:00 a.m., between 3:00 a.m. This is about my husband, who, despite this, has remained loyal to his or her profession, mainly because he or she is doing his or her job with a heart. Unfortunately, not all young teachers do so. The workload has a significant impact here, because when the tests need to be improved accumulate over the head and the burnout threatens, it is difficult to maintain the brilliance in the eyes and to continue as a teacher, which was the career of dreams in childhood. However, we cannot miss the motivation and dignified pay that has been repeatedly spoken about in this Chamber today. In recent years, the state has contributed to wage increases and, despite the uncertain times we are experiencing, I believe that this will continue to be a national priority. This was also confirmed to us by the Minister of Education and Science. The competition for teachers has grown in recent years. Thus, there is a growing desire to become teachers, and there is a potential to further increase reception. Together, we need to find a way to do this. Of course, the further challenge is linked to the fact that not all graduates remain school teachers for a long time. That's a big question. There was not much talk about school leaders in this Chamber today, but it has turned out that we are actually missing them too. This is seen as a problem of the same magnitude [as a lack of teachers]. Here we cannot forget about schoolkeepers, local authorities, because they must also contribute to this joint action. Our schools have been largely repaired and renovated in recent years, but the education sector also needs extra money from local authorities, even to pay the salaries of substitute teachers. We are a people of the faith in education, and we value both learning and education. To feed this faith, we need a sustainable education system, as it ensures that Estonia's life will continue until the end of time. To this end, we need a reform of education that will capture all levels of education from pre-school education to higher education and research. We cannot allow one piece or half of the work to be done, we need a holistic and all-encompassing approach to the ideal picture, because skills and knowledge guarantee us freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U147	Thank you. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U148	Thank you. I'm making an appointment right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U149	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U150	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitresses! A minister who must have left already, and colleagues! My father was a teacher. He went to the country school for salt immediately after his studies and worked as a teacher until his retirement. Actually, he was a teacher his whole life. It's not for nothing to say that a teacher will always be a teacher until his death. A teacher, it's not just a job, it's an invitation to life, a vocation, and I'm not ashamed to say it's a mission. Personally, I have so much respect for the teacher as for the institution that it is even difficult to put into words. Because of my family background, I have been very close to the teaching profession, though on the sidelines, and I have seen enough of the joys and concerns that accompany the teaching profession. This magic, which made us one of Europe's greatest literary nations at the end of the 19th century, held our national body and intellectuals throughout the years of occupation, and has ensured in the 21st century the brilliant level of knowledge of our students in international comparison, has been our faculty of teachers throughout the ages. Big bow to them. Having spent hours and hours in the Committee on Culture to listen to the concerns of teachers and people who are more closely involved in education, I have had a long feeling, like in the song "The Wall Is Front." This wall has been laid for years and years, and the result is a systemic disturbance, which results, among other things, in the discussion here in the Riigikogu today of the topic of secondary teacher growth as an important national issue. We are forced to admit that something has gone terribly wrong with young people who are very happy to go to school as teachers, they will not go to school later. Only half of the starting teachers will continue to hold the teaching profession in five years' time. There is certainly a need to pay close attention to the preparation of teachers, but an important political focus should also be on how to keep and support the teacher in his day-to-day work. Of course, what is important here is the pay that could be higher and the burden that could be less. However, as a number of teachers' memo points out, one very big problem is that they have been deprived of their rights and opportunities to stand up for themselves, both for students and parents. The teachers have unfortunately been left alone in the field of our educational capacity. Over the last ten years, teachers have gained a number of additional responsibilities: learning-supporting evaluation, conducting research, creative work, inclusive education. This last one, I would like to make a special point here. Inclusive education is a theme that is like an elephant in the living room. This is a subject that teachers have not wanted to speak loudly about, but every time they meet teachers and talk to them from the heart to the heart, sooner or later it will be a topic. The main concern of teachers is that they can no longer deal with their core business, what they have learned and prepared for. They will no longer be able to teach their subject; instead, they will have to wrestle with discipline issues. Their attention is disproportionately focused on supporting students. They need to devote more time in an hour to helping the weaker, and they cannot deal with students who naturally accept all the knowledge that is in the teacher's own storehouse. It doesn't save more supporters or tutors in class. It all adds up to a background in which the teacher does not feel well and sometimes even secure. He cannot fully devote himself to his calling, to what he has come to school for: to convey his knowledge to the full. It was a very big and systemic mistake that was once taken over from other parts of the world with a great heap. Despite the increasing abandonment of [inclusive education] by the same rest of the world, we continue to burden our teachers with responsibilities for which they do not have preparation and what is obviously a waste of their talents. Once the decisions made for prose reasons, still in order to save money, have brought us to a situation where no one is satisfied: neither teachers, nor parents, nor children with special educational needs who would obviously be happier in an environment where they could develop at their own pace and be under the care of specialists. Here I propose that we think along and that education politicians acknowledge that this is a largely failed educational experiment, which has unfortunately been carried out at the expense of our children and our teachers, and which is partly the reason why teachers' enthusiasm and motivation are running out after about five years. They're just burning out, and it's terribly unfortunate. Today we have heard many good proposals on how the most serious concerns can be resolved. There has been talk about the professional year, the mentoring system, the pay rise, the continuing training of teachers, the helping teachers, the support specialists, even the provision of psychological support to the teacher. These are all very good proposals. But if you start from anywhere, you should first restore your teacher's dignity, his position, both in front of the class and in society. Certainly, the burden on the teacher should be reduced. The teacher's salary should increase in proportion to the years he devotes to his pupils, school and society, and his salary should be commensurate with his level of education and his self-service contribution. That would be fair and motivating. But back to childhood. In the meetings of the Committee on Culture with the teachers, the idea remained that the school could be like a thriving and efficient team. A hundred percent agree! When I look at my father's old photos, which include packages of them that were taken on the first day of school every year, and on which I see my father and his colleagues aging year after year, photo by photo, that's what we think about when we talk about the team. Continuity, retention of teachers and appreciation of the teaching profession speak in these photos. Both the EKRE Group and the speaker here are convinced that teachers' rights need to be reinstated so that they can be demanding, and educational experimentation must be forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U151	Thank you. Is Katri Raik speaking on behalf of the group? I'd like you to come to the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U152	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to make it quick for someone else to have time to speak. I join in with these good words that today's matter of national importance has been prepared in good cooperation and certainly not by making a difference of opinion. I don't have any poems to read, but I also have to say that I'm an education teacher, I've been working at school, and I hope to get back to school someday. I will hurriedly draw attention to five important things that I think should be borne in mind, and it is a great pity that the Minister for Education and Science is not with us at the moment. When we are talking about pay today, we are talking about the pay of teachers and lecturers - ladies and gentlemen: also about the pay of faculty members. If a lecturer gets less money than a teacher, he's not very motivated to prepare a teacher. I remind you, the teacher has a master's degree. If the teacher's minimum wage is now EUR 1315 and the average wage is EUR 1430, the EUR 100 cycle that has been discussed today must be guaranteed. It has to go on the same way. So we hope that the next country's budget strategy will include the salaries of teachers. I'm gonna do a short math project. Today it has been said several times that the teacher works 50 to 60 hours instead of 35 hours. If we divide EUR 1315 by four weeks' working hours, the answer is that the teacher's salary is EUR 5 net. Five euros net! That's what children get when they work in the field during the summer when they earn extra school. And we cannot forget that we must not only talk about the minimum wage, but we must talk about the payroll. By raising the minimum political wage, the amount of money held by the headmaster has decreased. For example, a class manager often no longer receives a premium, since the headmaster no longer has a 20% share but a 17.5% share. It is important to discuss the teacher's workload. Having worked as a teacher on the other side of the job, for five or six years, I know that it takes one hour to prepare one lesson. If we take it that way, the teacher's hourly load should be less than 17 to 18 hours. Now from the universities. Ladies and gentlemen, the Estonian education strategy says that by 2035 only 60% of teachers' graduates should go to school; now 50% is going. This is certainly a very little ambitious objective. Re-educating programmes are needed so that a teacher like me in history and social education can go to basic school to teach natural sciences. I would be paid a minimum salary in half a year during retraining, and so I would become a teacher of [new subject]. Another little piece of information. The Youth School and the substitute teachers' programme was impressed by the people who represented these movements on the Committee on Culture. They're helping our university, helping our entire system. Let's finance them! 15,000 teachers out of 5,000, or one in three, do not meet the requirements. We need to appreciate every move that helps us find teachers. And lastly, the first year of teacher school. A teacher's professional year program has been developed, and I was there myself. The horrible money was put to sleep, so I'm sorry! But it doesn't work. Collaboration between universities, schools and the ministry is a magic key to moving forward from today's state. Thank you very much. Six minutes left for someone else.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U153	Next, please speak to Siim Kallas.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U154	Honorable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable waitresses! I'm gonna ask myself why I'm here first, because it's not really my thing. But actually, it's still my thing: I teach college students, my kids went to school, my grandchildren go to school, I go to school myself, and most of your work is related to schools when I work at the parish government. So this is a very important issue for all of us. I listened to good presentations and found many interesting points, some of which I thought were so important that I decided to comment a little. Both the first rapporteur and one of the previous speakers said that Estonia needs a broad and comprehensive education reform. What does that mean? I agree that it is like a mythical word that needs reform. But what exactly is it supposed to be? Is it clear to us exactly what we want? After all, everything else depends on it: how we organise the pay system and how we organise the school network. People in schools have said that the 21st century school is primarily an individualized school. This means that there are more peculiarities, and it also requires more money. In any event, this [reform] is linked to the differentiation of students. As has been said here, talent [more attention] is also needed; they also have special needs. I used to be talented and have special needs, too, I remember very well how they weren't dealt with at all. And teachers also need differentiation. Everyone said there was a need to raise teachers' salaries. How much? Should we run out of 20%? All of them? Is it the same for everyone, or are we going to do some kind of a 3% scale? Or are we going to put the better ones right at 50%, so you can really make a career, you're going to go to school and you have the perspective of reaching income levels very high in just a few decades? Are we gonna do this? Schools, too. Even during the Soviet era, those schools that had specific programmes were fought, and such confrontation still exists. If we assume that this school reform is a reform of differentiation, reform of the development of peculiarities, reform of the development of different abilities in students, then we must consider one simple thing: on a political level, we face opposition to the raging mediocrity. Imagine that a group of talented students at school are being made to imagine what parents and others will say. I'm saying schools have this fight all the time, all right? And when we talk about better teachers having to get paid more, there's gonna be a big wave of pay for young teachers too. Finally, it turns out there's no pay gap. These things need to be discussed. I want to stress that I am certainly prepared to participate in discussions. I believe, like all previous speakers, that the key to Estonia's development is that our successful school to date will survive, this is a 21st-century school, a major challenge. So I call on the education experts to figure out what this serious differentiation reform is, and then it is our turn to try to break down the resistance of all kinds of forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-19_U155	Thank you. We have less than one minute left. Doesn't Liina Kersna want to take the floor? Great, or really sorry. Our agenda today has been completed, and the debate on a matter of national importance has also been over. I thank everyone! I propose to Liina Kersna that she can speak on Monday, for example, in a free microphone. Thank you.
