ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U1	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the Monday session of the 15th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, the delivery of drafts and enquiries. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U2	I am handing over the draft law amending the Act of the Estonian Central Party, the Conservative People's Party and the Fatherland, which aims to make the control of the funding of the party, the electoral union and the individual candidate more professional. To this end, the National Audit Office is granted supervisory competence. The draft has been forwarded to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu by electronic means.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U3	Thank you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U4	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee initiates a draft law amending the Local Government Organisation Act and the Financial Management Act of the Local Government Unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U5	Thank you. For the Government of the Republic, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U6	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Bankruptcy Act and other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg. Secondly, the draft law amending the Spatial Data Act and the Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Rene Kokk, Minister of the Environment. These drafts have been forwarded to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu electronically.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U7	Thank you. There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. We're going to the presence check. There are 80 members of the Riigikogu, no 21. We now come to the extension and approval of the agenda. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas has expressed his wish to make a political statement about the emergency situation at today's Riigikogu session. On the basis of Article 56 (1) (9) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act, I have added to the agenda of today's sitting and added the political statement of Prime Minister Jüri Ratas as the first item on the agenda. Together with this amendment, I will vote on the approval of the agenda for the 15th working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 83 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U8	The first point is the political statement by the Prime Minister. I'll introduce you to the procedure. The Prime Minister's speech is up to 30 minutes, then any member of the Riigikogu can ask the Prime Minister an oral question. After that, we will open negotiations; there may be representatives of the political groups. Please, Prime Minister, the chair is yours!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U9	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good transmission monitors! First of all, thank you, President of the Riigikogu, to you and the Riigikogu for agreeing to complete the agenda! Thank you for this opportunity. Almost ten weeks ago, on 12 March, I appeared before you, honourable Riigikogu, with a political statement about the crisis caused by the spread of the corona virus. Last day, the World Health Organization had estimated that the spread of the virus had reached the proportions of the global epidemic. That same morning, we set up a government committee to deal with the situation of the virus and find a solution to the resulting public health and economic problems. In the last few hours of the evening, the Government of the Republic declared an emergency situation for the first time in Estonia's history. By this time, the infection of 16 people and the intra-country transmission of the detected infection had been confirmed in Estonia. To date, we have done over 70,000, namely 70189 laboratory corona virus tests, of which 1784 have given a positive response. Unfortunately, this disease has also claimed 64 lives in Estonia. This is one of the biggest civil crises that have restored independence in Estonia, which have affected all people, regions and areas of life in Estonia from close to or beyond. So far, the spread of the virus has been in decline for more than a month. The measured rate of infection of scientists has remained below 1 on April 7, which means that the virus will recede. The same is confirmed by a random sample of researchers from the University of Tartu, the results of which show that the prevalence of the virus in Estonia is low. The number of new infections detected each day has remained less than 10 or equal to 10 throughout May. The number of COVID-19 patients in need of hospital care is also steadily decreasing. On 9 March, the Government of the Republic formulated six objectives for dealing with the crisis, through which it is possible to assess Estonia's ability to deal with the crisis afterwards. These six objectives were: firstly, to prevent the further spread of the corona virus to Estonia; secondly, to prevent the spread of the corona virus on the ground in Estonia; thirdly, to ensure that the health system copes with the control and treatment of the corona virus; fourthly, to prevent panic in society and to raise people's awareness of preventing and treating the spread of the corona virus; fifthly, to ensure that people cope with the indirect effects of coronavir; sixthly, to ensure that the Estonian economy functions as normal as possible. Honourable MPs, Honourable Riigikogu! The spread of the Corona virus to Estonia was halted after temporary closure of the borders. Extensive travel restrictions were essential and almost all EU Member States re-established temporary border controls. Of course, there could have been more transnational cooperation and exchange of information, because we saw difficulties in returning people home and also problems with the transport of strategic goods. These disturbances showed the value and security guarantee of a well-functioning single market in the European Union and free movement. I believe that all parties have drawn conclusions from the experience and this became a lesson in maintaining the unity of the European Union. In order to effectively prevent the spread of the virus on the ground, we, as a country and society, took a number of steps with great consequences. First of all, we needed an overview of the spread of the virus. At the beginning of the crisis, we quickly increased the test capacity that proved to be the neck of the bottle. Since February 5, we have tested an average of 806 people a day. The peak was on April 2nd when 2506 virus samples were analysed. Much attention has also been paid to the procurement of personal protective equipment and to the protection of frontier workers. This has taken place in conditions of global competition or even in the race. Instead of signed contracts and transfers of funds, only a shipment that has actually arrived will provide certainty to this day. It was also very important to map the capabilities of Estonia's own producers and to use the opportunities they offer. We were also able to show solidarity with our NATO allies. Estonia's aid to Italy and Spain received their attention and sincere thanks. In order to limit the spread of the virus, social distance had to be created between people and to avoid unnecessary contact as much as possible. We banned public events and gatherings, introduced restrictions on movements between islands and the mainland, closed schools, shopping centres, sports facilities and entertainment facilities. We have established a 2+2 rule and an obligation for COVID-19 patients and close contacts to be quarantined. Although these are serious steps that severely restrict people's rights and freedoms, we have, in general, managed to deal with much less restrictive restrictions in Estonia than we saw in several other European and world countries. In order to ensure that the health system could survive, we also had to prepare for the worst scenarios, the possibility of which was confirmed by news and reviews of countries in difficulty. In order to prevent the collapse of the medical system, the ability to deal with a large number of COVID-19 patients had to be created, including the restriction of scheduled treatment, the creation of so-called "corona units" and the increase of intensive care capacity. Our health care system proved its ability and, fortunately, the limits of this ability were not really tested. The most difficult moment was one month after the emergency, on April 13, when the COVID-19 required hospital care for 166 people, nine of whom were in controlled breathing. The number of existing beds has changed continuously, but on the basis of maximum capacity, 60% of the total ward capacity and 17% of the intensive care resources were used on that day. Good listeners! In a critical situation, of course, it is extremely important that people understand the objectives of the restrictions imposed on them and the need for steps to be taken. Informing people helps them to adjust their behavior and protect their health and the health of their loved ones. We used e-mails, direct mails and SMS messages, which included codes of conduct and references for additional information, in addition to media capabilities. We have put in a crisis hotline 1247 and a website that brings together the necessary information. In addition, daily press conferences were held with the participation of different authorities to provide sufficient information. Certainly, in the current crisis, the press has also done its role in informing people in a commendably good and responsible manner. At the request of the Government's Communications Office, Turku-Study AS monitored public opinion and awareness of people every week. On this basis, I can say that the whole society has been well informed about crisis information and codes of conduct. During the first weeks of the emergency situation, the opinion was spread that the awareness of Estonian Russian-speaking people about the crisis is low, but the facts do not confirm the assessment at that time. Studies show that Russian-speaking people have been very diligent in following the instructions. In addition to the health system, the current crisis affects all other areas of life. At the last meeting of the Scientific and Development Council, we looked at the studies in progress and launched analyses in four more areas. They concern ensuring the security of supply of vital goods, the effects of the crisis on the mental health of the population, the socio-economic effects of the spread of the virus and virological, immunological and epidemiological studies. The inevitable assumption is that even though we have managed the first wave of the corona virus so far, we are preparing for its return. Honourable here! We are now seeing health statistics receiving unprecedented attention in economic forecasts and discussions. The health crisis has had a very serious impact on the functioning and prospects of our economy. As a result of the measures used to contain the virus, the economic activity of the European Union has fallen drastically in the last few weeks. Expenditure by consumers, industrial production, services, investment, capital flows, supply chains and many other important economic indicators have been seriously affected. According to the European Commission's spring forecast, the economic downturn in the euro area could reach 7.7% this year. This is the biggest fall in the history of the European Union, which is much deeper than in the 2009 financial crisis. It is still very difficult to make economic forecasts because there is no recipe to compare the current situation. The extent of uncertainty is illustrated by scenarios where the decline at the end of the year could be almost double that of longer term restrictions and the second wave of pandemics. The European Commission forecasts Estonia's economic downturn at 6.9% this year, which is below the euro area average. The decrease expected by the Commission is also lower than the 8% forecast by the Ministry of Finance at the beginning of April, as the impact of additional budget mitigation measures for 2020 has been taken into account. The budget deficit forecast is 8.5% on average in the euro area and 103% of GDP in public debt this year. In Estonia, the budget deficit will grow by 8% in 2020, while public debt will grow to 20.7% of GDP. Despite the great leap, the latter remains the lowest in the European Union. The relaxation of measures aimed at preventing the virus creates prerequisites for recovery, but obviously neither the European Union nor the Estonian economy will be able to make up for the damage suffered by the end of next year. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Despite all the preparations, plans and exercises, we can say that neither we nor any other country in the world was fully prepared for this crisis. The simplest example is the global shortage of personal protective equipment and disinfectants. There have also been problems with testing, managing the healthcare system, access to essential medicines everywhere. In addition, there were shortcomings in transnational coordination. Now it is our duty to learn from the situation. We need to get out of here smarter, stronger, and definitely more durable. As we are closely linked in all respects to our immediate neighbours, it is no accident that the relaxation of cross-border restrictions started primarily in cooperation with the Baltic States and Finland. From here we can move forward step by step to restore freedom of movement throughout the European Union. I am pleased that we have seen very clearly in this crisis that there are smart and busy people and authorities in Estonia who contributed to finding fast and intelligent solutions. This, too, is a very important lesson. The teaching experience is certainly the first time in our history to use the emergency situation provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. There has never been this demanding crisis in Estonia before, but I can assure you, looking back, that the use of the emergency situation was a purely rational step. Of course, we did not take this step lightly, and there were enough doubts and caution among the government and those who advised us before making a decision. A number of very fundamental questions were needed regarding the justification, organisation, duration and management of the emergency situation. I am extremely grateful to the Chancellor of Justice and the Secretary of State, who very much participated in these discussions and shared their advice and recommendations. Although the current laws provide for a wide range of powers for the emergency manager, I considered it important that we discuss the decisions we make thoroughly with members of the government, officials, experts, and scientists. An important discussion format was the government committee on events related to the spread of the COVID-19 disease caused by the outbreak of the emergency situation and on public health and economic problems. In addition, we have included a scientific advisory panel that has been set up to contribute to the discussions on all important issues. The Government Commission has met 33 times on a tight schedule and will continue to operate according to the evolution of the corona virus situation. In addition to the Commission, the resolution of the crisis has been seriously addressed at government level. It is certainly worth highlighting the important role of the State Chancellery. It is a unique body within the state structure to coordinate the preparation and resolution of crises in other institutions. They have succeeded in this task, whether it is to draw up a strategy for exiting the crisis, to create a supranational situational awareness through the State Situation Centre, or to coordinate all official activities and communication. The State Chancellery manages a wide range of defence activities, to which I believe the coordination of civil crisis preparation must be added. A very important management lesson was certainly also the appointment of emergency managers, who dealt with both personal protective equipment and the provision of information that was needed by the communication companies, for example, to people wishing to return to Estonia. In addition, the heads of the four regions of the Rescue Board and the Head of the Saaremaa Region played a very important role, who dealt with the needs of local authorities and provided information from them to the Head of Emergency, the Government Commission and the Government. I regularly talked to the job directors, and I sincerely thank them for their contribution. The use of the Rescue Board structure for central regional crisis management has justified itself and we must continue to develop it accordingly. We have also had to speedily change laws during the emergency situation, which, in their existing form, did not foresee the consequences of this crisis. As with decisions in the case of crises in general, changes had to be made more significantly than the normal decision-making process. I thank the honourable Riigikogu for its very rapid and operational participation in resolving these issues. Dear listeners, The emergency situation ended at midnight, but the crisis continues. Many restrictions will continue. We no longer need an emergency regime to manage it. The virus outbreak has now subsided and the health system is recovering, but the global course of the pandemic and the economic downturn caused by restrictions in many countries will affect us for a long time to come. The virus has not disappeared from Estonia either, and again and again we find new infected people. Until an effective vaccine or medicine is found, which according to WHO may take a long time, the virus will remain with us, and we will have to learn to live with it. However, we will certainly be much better prepared to spread this disease and other infectious diseases in the future. We know what tools we need, and by acting responsibly together, we will be able to overcome the crisis again. The Government of the Republic has adopted a strategy for exiting the situation caused by the proliferation of COVID-19, which started work already in the second week of the crisis. With this in mind, we have assessed the situation and made decisions about restrictions in order to gradually return to normal living arrangements. We are described in the strategy in the second phase of stabilisation of the outbreak, followed by preparedness for a new outbreak. The primary role of the strategy has been to turn our eyes and thoughts towards getting out of the crisis, but it is not a calendar plan, it does not think for us and it does not provide detailed guidance for each individual case. The document gives us direction, and it has agreed on the objectives, principles and criteria of the country, which can be used by all our people, organisations and bodies and, on this basis, to draw up their own personal departure plans. We want to emerge from the crisis as a stronger and more cohesive society, which we set out four strategic objectives: firstly, to ensure people's physical and mental health, i.e. to prevent the spread of the virus and to mitigate the impact of the virus on the health system both in the short and long term; secondly, to ensure people's livelihood and return to normal life, i.e. to mitigate the potential impact of emergency constraints on people's incomes, maintenance of the workplace, education and daily subsistence; thirdly, to support the livelihood and competitiveness of companies, or to mitigate the effects of restrictions on them; fourthly, to ensure the functioning of society and the state, or to maintain the supply of vital goods and services at the necessary level, to ensure the security of the population, compliance with constitutional order and the independence of the Estonian state. The basic indicators of the strategy are the road signs on which we must also be prepared to reverse if it is necessary. Such flexibility is essential in our situation. Patience is also important, as getting out of the crisis must not become a new closure. Honourable people of Estonia! None of the restrictions imposed would work, and we would not be able to achieve the desired goals if the Estonians had taken responsibility not only for themselves, but also for the grandmother-grandfather, neighbour, friend, work and study partner, and for our entire small but good society. We have once again received proof that the people of Estonia see Estonia as a society for all of us, both in large cities and in small villages. This is the foundation of our survival. I am warmly grateful to our health professionals, as well as to rescue officers, police officers, health services and alarm personnel, entrepreneurs, officials, diplomats and consular staff, the people of local authorities and very many volunteers. We saw the Defence Forces and the Defence League supporting health and law enforcement with their resources and capabilities, as has never been done before. We also saw the efforts made by kindergartens and school teachers and workers, social workers and municipal staff to keep us all safe. We saw the contribution of entrepreneurs to restructuring their work and providing essential services and goods to people. We saw scientists working hard to investigate and explain the virus and its implications. I am grateful to the President of the Republic for his active work and communication in a crisis situation. Of course, I am very pleased for your thoughts, contributions and thorough work, honourable members of the Riigikogu, both in the body of elders, committees, political groups, in the large Chamber, in correspondence and in conversations. I wish us all health and wisdom for the future. I thank you all from the bottom of my heart! Power to Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U10	Thank you, Prime Minister. You have questions too. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that there is one minute to ask the question. First, Valdo Randpere asks. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U11	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! You said we had a shortage of masks and disinfectants at the start of the crisis. On its own, I think the small deficit of these masks is still not yet, nor has this crisis committee been very successful in obtaining them in Estonia. And I can already tell you what the next deficit is. It's gonna be a long time, like you said, but it's gonna be a vaccine deficiency. Now that we see that the great powers are already haunting each other over who receives the primary or exclusive vaccine, and it is clear that the initial production and distribution of the vaccine around the world will be relatively bottlenecked, what has Estonia already done to ensure that it is reached at or close to the moment it is invented? I know that other countries have taken steps in this regard, few countries are counting on joint procurement by the European Union. What has Estonia done? Please don't tell me that Jake Aab is going to get it, so it'll never get here!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U12	First of all, Mr Randpere, thank you for your question. Yes, personal protective equipment, including masks, be they FFP3, FFP2, or surgical masks, as I said in my speech, the deficit was insane. It lasted weeks and months. As I said, certain that masks existed, it could not have been when the contract was made, not when the money had been paid, but when they had landed the plane at Tallinn airport. The question went on, I got it, on the vaccine. I would like to say so much more about the masks, as I said in my speech, that I thank the Estonian private sector, entrepreneurs. There were quite a few entrepreneurs who worked with their own logistics, with their own personal resources, so that personal protective equipment, including masks, could reach Estonia, and this work was commendable. The Estonian External Action Service contributed very strongly to the delivery of masks, our ambassadors contributed. I definitely have to bring out the Estonian Ambassador to China separately here. Now, the vaccine and your concern that it won't get to larger, more prosperous countries first, and only then to smaller countries when it comes at one point. I had a video conference with the Director-General of WHO weeks ago where we also talked about the vaccine. He estimated that the development of the vaccine could take another year and a half. I would like to make a special mention of the very important contribution made by the European Union within this vaccine, I would even say that the European Union took the initiative, through the European Commission and the President of the European Commission, Mrs Ursula von der Leyen, who was actually one of the important initiators of this transnational fundraising. Estonia also contributed its support and help. Through me, the Director-General of the WHO thanked Estonia personally for its contribution. The point is, point one, so we can find the vaccine. Point two is that this vaccine must not become, as you described, a deficit, so that it only goes to some richer, more prosperous countries. On the contrary, it must be equally accessible to all. The question of what Estonia has done. One is the contribution we have made to this fundraiser. The additional budget you adopted also provided for investments in the third category laboratory of the University of Tartu. So surely our scientists and our research potential are involved in the development of a vaccine. Of course, it will be a long and complex period. I do not agree with your irony about the Minister of State Administration, Jaak Aab. At the beginning of the crisis, my request was for him to take the entire organisation of personal protective equipment on his shoulders, except for nursing homes and medical facilities. I'm sure he did his best in this situation. I appreciate his contribution. He was able to coordinate internally, but he was also able to coordinate it, as far as possible at that point, in the foreign countries from which personal protective equipment came.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U13	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U14	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! It's spring outside, the fruits are ripening. In this regard, I have a request for you. Can you please this request is a matter of your own. Would you be able to provide feedback to farmers and farmers' organisations as soon as possible, but possibly during this week, which is the government's plan for the 2020 agricultural year, particularly in terms of labour and external labour? I would very much ask that this answer, if you give it, be relatively detailed so that it also gives an answer to the different nuances. Has there been diplomatic negotiations with Ukraine on the exchange of workers and on the readiness of the unemployment fund to use the people who are already here? Such a request. In any case, it would be better to officially hear it from the government than, for example, next Sunday at Tre Radio.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U15	Thank you for this question. I think that the issue of labour in the agricultural sector, particularly in crop production, is of course topical, and no one is questioning that. We have done some relief today, as you know, it is that this period will last until 31 July. I have also told you in this Question Time that this is certainly not the full solution to this problem, but it is part of it. Secondly, we must take into account that unemployment in Estonia is increasing in weeks and there are certainly people who want to find employment in other sectors. One such sector could certainly be agriculture. Of course, it also requires training and training in many cases, and the state must certainly be much more flexible and operational here. Now your input on how, for example, if a third-country worker is in Estonia, he could go from one sector to another sector to see how this exchange of information takes place. I even had contact with the Home Office officials today, and I know that they also have contact with the unemployment fund today, how to move this information, how to give it. These are sensitive personal data, they must be protected. If it is possible to give them at all, we must be guided by the fact that these data do not go out in any way [for others]. I know that the Ministry of the Interior, in cooperation with the unemployment fund today, is trying to find these solutions, precisely that if a person works in the construction sector for example and there is no more work there, but he is prepared to go into the agricultural sector, his training allows it, his knowledge allows it, how to bring together those who end up working in the construction sector with the agricultural sector. Yeah, there are certain challenges here, but this communication is already going on with the authorities. So I do not think there is a common solution to this problem. I very much hope that, in the end, we will also arrive as soon as possible at an epidemiological situation where we can once again open up borders with different countries, say, the number of infected people allows us to come in from other countries, third countries, and that will give us the opportunity to again allow the workforce to come in from Ukraine, for example, as you said.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U16	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U17	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! You talked about the emergency situation in your statement largely in the past, but it is still the case that the effects of this forced pause are only beginning to come to light in a very large number of sectors. For example, the tax authorities have today announced that nearly 12,000 companies are now in difficulty. As you yourself pointed out, the unemployment fund is forecasting an increase in unemployment. All these people in a precarious situation are well waiting for concrete messages about how support continues and whether it continues. These very specific messages were a little short in your statement, so I will ask you again. Salary allowance will cease in 12 days at present. Will it continue to be paid? Will it continue to be supported by sectors where the crisis is just approaching, and can the unemployment fund count on extra money?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U18	Thank you. First of all, I think, in these crises, every crisis leader or government, on the one hand, sets its one and most important priority. In this crisis, I am sure that the greatest priority for me was to guarantee people's health. Just as I told you in the speech that, when we set targets at government level to deal with this crisis, the third of them was to ensure that the health system coped with the control and treatment of the corona virus. Yes, we cannot say that COVID-19 did not require the life of any person in Estonia. Unfortunately, you can't say that. That has been the main thing. Everything else we can rebuild, rebuild, recreate. I fully agree with you, Mr Pentus-Rosimannus, that the economy and certain sectors of the economy have either arrived today or are just getting there. You ask me whether or not the wage subsidy measure for the unemployment fund continues. First of all, we need to get a proposal from the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund. As far as I am aware, the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund has proposed to the Government that the remuneration of June be reimbursed. I have spoken with the Minister of Social Affairs today on this subject, I have asked to put this point under discussion in the Government's office on Thursday. Personally, I think it's right that we go on paying the salary allowance. You're asking about sectors. Yes, I think the basis for paying out should be changed. According to the same proposal, the condition that the company's turnover or income must have decreased by at least 50% compared to June last year will also become mandatory. It has been a very effective measure, this wage subsidy measure, but let us be honest, it has also been a very expensive measure. Now, your last question. I had a meeting with the social partners, both with the Confederation of Employers and with the trade unions. Both have really proposed that the state should put additional money in it, as you have also mentioned. This issue must also be discussed on Thursday, and I think it will also be discussed more widely with the Riigikogu, because it means an extra resource. But yes, I think the unemployment fund wage measure in June should, in any case, continue. It has really saved a lot of people from being laid off. It has given, I think, a lot of companies confidence and confidence that they can continue their work and their activities after the crisis. Thank you very much for this very good and meaningful question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U19	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U20	I will further develop this good and substantive issue. Indeed, wage subsidies have helped a great many, and they have also given some confidence to workers who are afraid that tomorrow and the day after tomorrow they may not have any more income. But the trade unions have said that it would take at least a few or three months for this extra wage subsidy to ease the situation. If the country does not transfer additional money to the unemployment fund, a large amount of money will be needed before we can start extending the period of payments, to expand the number of insured persons. I am still asking Keit Pentus-Rosimethus, in addition to the question of how the government plans to support the unemployment fund in extending the wage subsidy measure. Is there a plan for additional wage support to bring more money to the unemployment fund with an additional budget? If my memory doesn't fool me, this year the government has only contributed to active labour market measures...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U22	... €18,000, last year's $3 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U23	Thank you. As I said during the answer to the previous question, this decision will, I believe, be discussed by the Government of the Republic on Thursday. Point one. I said that I consider it right to continue with this measure, but we must take into account that there are also limited financial resources. Today, to decide to move forward in June with this 50% rate (which was set at 50%) and that this support is not more than EUR 800, such a proposal is on the table of the government. You are asking a legitimate question that if the government or state decides to add money to it, then, point one, of course, this means an additional financial resource. Point two, of course, is also a question of how much, or how long, we want to keep up the economy in exactly this form. This is not the only measure in economic packages; a rather large economic support package has come from the state, whether it is KredEx, whether it is EAS, whether it is through local authorities or whether it is through investments that should all give more work and procurement in certain areas and thus people bread on the table. So we certainly have not only relied on the unemployment fund, we have also taken various measures to stimulate the economy and, after this crisis, to turn the economy back on track as soon as possible. So you have to look at the whole picture. Yes, one way is certainly to add money, but, as I said, on the one hand, there is a question of money on the table, on the other hand, the question of how much we contribute to paying off wages and for how long. There are other measures to stimulate our economy and entrepreneurship in every way and to contribute to the activation of the market. I think we need to look at this picture as a whole anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U24	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! On 7 May, agricultural organisations sent you a letter regarding foreign labour. No response has been received to date based on public information. For them, every missed day means like a week. All European countries, which have been given the opportunity to move, and Estonia has also been given the opportunity to bring in foreign workers, especially for seasonal work. Why has the Estonian state not made use of this opportunity? What we're doing right now is reminding us that a person is drowning, but you're offering him a hook, not a lifeline. The lifeline is needed today, especially in the gardening sector, which needs external labour. Why have you not taken this opportunity to be used by other countries in Europe? In these countries, too, unemployment has increased dramatically.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U26	Thank you. Yeah, on May 7, this letter or application really came in. Today is, if I'm not mistaken, May 18th. They will certainly be answered and, of course, basically answered. I have also given you, Urmas Kruuse, a honourable member of the Riigikogu, an answer to the exact same question several times in this Question Time, and just a moment ago, I gave Mrs Heljo Pikhof an answer to the same question that we have done to ease. So it cannot be said that in this sector the state would have taken absolutely no steps towards easing. The same extension until the end of July is also one of the reliefs. As I said to you, today, the Ministry of the Interior and the unemployment fund are intensifying their cooperation so that people who remain in work in another sector can come more quickly to agriculture or to the crop that you were concerned about. Of course, the third question is much wider. The third question is that the pre-crisis situation should be restored as soon as possible, so that seasonal workers can really come to Estonia in spring or summer. No one has changed this fundamental principle. It's just that the corona virus has changed people's movements, there are quarantine rules. After all, we are working to ensure that we can open borders as quickly as possible due to the epidemiological situation. We have to consider that, as of yesterday, we had over 50,000 people unemployed, 50137, 1518 new unemployed registered in the last week. So this, too, is a different situation than every spring, unfortunately, our unemployment rate is much higher. Of course, the question is also that we must also offer our people these opportunities so that they can find work here in the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U27	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U28	Thank you. Prime Minister! The education sector was to make fundamental changes to the organisation of its work in an emergency situation. The state, with its conflicting communication, did not make this situation any easier. If, in mid-April, the government claimed that, for example, there will certainly be no graduations, then today we know that they will happen. On the subject of final exams, the government wanted a permanent right to decide how children would graduate from comprehensive school and upper secondary school. The Riigikogu did not grant this right. The government then announced that there would normally be no final exams in comprehensive school and upper secondary school. At the same time, the reality was that there were no final exams at all in comprehensive school, and they took place on a voluntary basis in upper secondary school. You announced on social media that contact training would return on May 15th, in fact we know that it partially recovered. My question is: what lessons have you formulated for yourself in the field of education?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U29	Thank you. I hope we all get where we've been for the last two months or more, two and a half months, ten weeks. To give in this crisis, where at some point it was very difficult to predict the next hour, in a timely and timely manner, a set of rules in advance, I modestly think that this has been a little much requested or requested. I think there are very clear messages in the area of education. On 9 April, predicting exactly what would happen on 15 May was extremely difficult. In retrospect, this forecast, which was announced at government level, and the proposal put forward by the Minister for Education and Science, were very timely given the spread of this virus. I said in my speech that I considered one of the most difficult moments on April 13, when there were 166 people in hospital beds because of the COVID-19. Let's just think about where we were on April 9th and what situation we lived in. In the last week of March, international studies from Great Britain and Finland had come; our own scientists had used different angles of approach. I remember that around 23 and 24 March it was said that the most optimistic solution is that in mid-April we must have 230 people in intensive care. 230 people. That was where we lived and where we were. On 9 April, a very clear message was given: on 15 May, education will be reopened, final exams can be taken. The truth is, if you were upset about the fact that on 9 April you couldn't say whether graduations and proms were going to happen, then I think this is quite a small detail in this case. Today we know that there has been a guideline from the Ministry of Education and Research: the activities can take place, but a distance must be kept indoors, the space must be sparsely filled, i.e. no more than 50%. The guide is to keep the activities by class, older people to get involved through digital solutions. No parties allowed. The guidelines of the Ministry of Education are based on the recommendation of the Scientific Advisory Board that in June it would be reasonable to protect older people from excessive contact. I understand that this attack was very hard on the education system. But I would like to thank the Ministry of Education and the Minister of Education and Science. That, in my opinion, is where the exit strategy or the opening strategy started. It was very important. At the time, it was very much wanted to say, above all, to seniors, whether they could take exams on the way in which admission to universities takes place. I think it was really important. I think the general principle must be that the messages should also be cautious so as not to regret these messages.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U30	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U31	Thank you. A very broad consensus in society is that the economy should start and recover, that jobs and businesses should remain. You said, too, that it is a great goal for you to stimulate the economy, with rapid action to achieve it. Are you aware of how successful you are in this, how much of the money actually proposed with the additional budget has gone into operation, and are you aware of how the market participants explain this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U32	Thank you for this question. Of course, there are specific indicators or 'economic metrics' that we have looked at every week and received an overview. So, yes, I think the whole government is familiar with them, be it Mr. Ligi, I thank you for this very constructive question of the number of unemployed registered, whether it be a change in the turnover of companies compared to last year, whether it be economic activity indices, whether it be a budgetary balance, an increase in tax debt compared to last March (these data come from the Tax and Customs Board) or consumption (electricity consumption, card payments), exports of goods and services, etc. Speaking of market participants, I have really had constant communication with both representative business organisations and the banking sector in the context of this crisis. There have been many of these meetings, and there are many of them this week too. Of course, there will also be interviews at government level in the framework of the various KredEx and EAS measures. If you're worried about whether we're aware of what's going on right now, then, of course, the government will be kept informed. It is, in my view, very important that there should also be a dialogue between business organisations and the government when it comes to getting out of the crisis. So I think that the measures created through EAS or KredEx actually fulfil their goal and help Estonian companies to emerge from this crisis, help very many Estonian people to retain their jobs and actually give faith to companies so that they can continue their activities in a nice way after the crisis. I thank you very much that you are really worried about the same question, you have the heart of what I have to do with the Estonian economy and entrepreneurship. Yeah, I think it's extremely important. Thank you very much for this serious question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U33	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U34	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Before the virus, we knew that we had very serious problems with access to medical care, being at the forefront of treatment order among the countries of the European Union, unfortunately in terms of length. The virus brought its paradigm, and thousands of people were thus deprived of the necessary medical care. Now, how do we get all this back, because these people, too, are suffering from their various afflictions every day? At the same time, we know that we have fewer doctors than European Union countries, fewer nurses. How is human resources, on the one hand, and financial resources, on the other, intended to make up for what has been lost? In fact, the same virus will certainly bring us more chronically ill ones.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U35	Thank you, Doctor Everaus. Yes, the part of your question that the queues have been extended is true. The queues have been extended because the scheduled treatment has been nine or ten weeks behind, and it has not been fully restored to date. It recovers at different rates in different hospitals and there are also those who cannot fully allow recovery. Just yesterday, I had a personal conversation with the major hospital executives. Just as I have said publicly a few times that it was easier to impose these restrictions than to remove the restrictions by coming out of this crisis. I think that in medicine, basically the same principle applies at the moment in order to stop scheduled treatment, opening the COVID departments was easier than moving back to normality and re-introduction of scheduled therapy. This, of course, requires, point one, that we be able first to pay the hospitals the costs they have incurred because of COVID-19, so that they do not have to save on scheduled treatment. This is what you and the Riigikogu have done. Once the supplementary budget was adopted, there was a special provision for the sickness fund, I think, I am not mistaken if I say EUR 150 million in the order of EUR 150 million. It's, I think, very important that they get the assurance that they don't have to make these expenses at the expense of their scheduled medical expenses. We can't say today that we can catch up, I don't know, in weeks. It will certainly take hospitals months, I think, this whole year if not more, but I still believe that Estonian hospitals and medicine are good, their capacity is great and they will do their best. As you said, many diseases or problems have been on standby. Corona virus may have caused chronic diseases as well, certainly there are examples because the outbreak was still new, but it affected thousands of people in our society in Estonia. What exactly is the medical effect of this corona virus on other chronic diseases, I think it is difficult to say the final assessment of this at the moment, but certainly there is such an effect. So I can say that hospitals are financially covered, hospitals are making an effort to return to scheduled treatment. But, of course, our plans foresee that in certain hospitals, the COVID-19 departments must also be preserved, this capacity must be maintained, not to mention the EMOs, who in any case must provide rapid and operational assistance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U36	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U37	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Remuneration compensation, which has already been discussed several times here, is very important in this respect, I think it has been the most effective support so far. After all, it is the people and entrepreneurs who have put it on the table, not the state. This is the premium that has been collected. Contrary to the fact that almost 2 billion packages went to support businesses, nothing has so far gone to support people. In this sense, this is a very important issue. The Unemployment Insurance Board knows and has said that this period of benefit should be extended. We've been talking to you about this three weeks ago. It shouldn't come as a surprise to the government. The Riigikogu still meets for about a month. If the state budget is to be processed quickly, an additional budget should be submitted to the Riigikogu in two weeks at the latest. My question to you is this: does the government submit another supplementary budget to the Riigikogu before Midsummer Day to help these people?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U38	Thank you, Mr Western Forest. I have told you that we are very likely to be discussing this proposal by the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund this week. I also know very clearly what's on the table. As you said yourself, this is an additional demand for money from the state. Surely it must be part of it and go hand in hand with it. However, we cannot review or revisit this or go aside from the whole picture, nor can we deviate from other economic measures, which the country has done significantly more, significantly more operationally and forcefully than we compare with the crisis in 2008-2009. After all, this is also an important relief for the labour market, that people do not lose their jobs or lose as little as possible, and that the various sectors of the economy and business will recover as soon as possible. You are asking whether or not the second supplementary budget will come to the Riigikogu before Midsummer Day. As I said, this is the place of the Thursday debate that we actually have opportunities to resolve this issue. That's what the government will discuss on Thursday.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U39	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U40	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister, thank you very much both for your review and your answer to questions. I am not going to stress that the biggest part of Estonia's people, institutions, government and also the Riigikogu is, above all, that we have come out of the emergency situation today. Our role may be the smallest, but it is precisely the part of the people who have fulfilled the requirements very clearly and precisely to get rid of this evil virus. However, my question specifically concerns what someone's role is in an emergency when an emergency situation comes to an end. Major events, festivals, concerts planned all over Estonia, already announced, are they allowed by the local government or must you contact the Health Board? How is it really gonna be? We also know, thanks to your review, what the information and guidelines have been from the government and the special committee, but how will it be from today or tomorrow?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U41	Thank you. I certainly agree with you and share that view. The fact that I have the opportunity to be here today is entirely of the same opinion, thanks to the responsible behaviour of our people. The people of Estonia have shown a great deal of responsibility, personal responsibility towards themselves, their loved ones, their families, their mothers and fathers, and their grandfathers and grandmothers, limiting close contacts as much as possible. It has indeed produced results. You also pointed out other areas. I'm sure there's been medicine on the front line, and I'd say the Police and Border Guard Board, the Defence League. The PSAP has done a very grateful job. Very many volunteers have gone to answer, for example, 1247 which has been, I think, an extremely positive example. The role of the Riigikogu in my opinion has been very great and has been very useful. We all have to play our part at this point. It is clear that the Riigikogu has the role of legislative power. Let us be honest, in this whole crisis, whether it has been in the state budget or in the proceedings last week (which has also received a lot of criticism, but in my opinion added legal clarity) in the case of bill 165, the role of the Riigikogu has been important. If you ask about the big events, how will it be, then it will be under this general rule first of all that 50% of the capacity of the hall, but no more than 500 people, for foreign events up to 1000. I imagine that in the rest of this, the application for a permit must be applied in the same way as it was before, except that we cannot cross these borders, we cannot make events that are more than 1000 people. Surely we must also look at some of these events, I imagine that there will be many concerts in one place in one day, there was a festival in the past, and now it is said that we will perform several concerts, there will be time breaks, there will be no more than 1000 people in this area. We will certainly see such requests. I guess you have to approach each one personally. But in general, this set of rules has been stated in advance and the application for authorisation, the public event permit application goes in the same way as it used to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U42	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U43	Good President! Good Prime Minister! In your speech, you stressed in a sympathetic way that our Russian-speaking population behaved in a similar way to us Estonians. That's it. Thank you for bringing it out separately. However, it is worrying to look at unemployment statistics. Many young people are unemployed in Ida-Virumaa; young people often work in the service sector. The most difficult thing in Estonia is to be a Russian woman because you have three problems: you are a woman, you are a Russian and your Estonian language may not be the best and you often live in Ida-Viru County. Do you think that, as a country, we could do something separately for our Russian-speaking people so that they would not be even worse off on the labour market than they are in the current difficult situation? The statistics show that the issue is serious.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U44	Thank you. Surely one of the things we have been doing for several years, after all, much more intensively and intensively, is learning the Estonian language. I think that it is necessary to go on with what has taken place in adult education in Estonian, but what has also taken place in the field of education, be it kindergartens or be it the first degree in primary school. It's, I think, very important. You named Ida-Viru County. After all, both Russian-language people and Estonian-language people live in Ida-Virumaa. But really, Ida-Viru County is in this, say, unemployment was hit very strongly or most. The potential that it may still be hit, especially given production, given the oil shale sector, is very high, also considering what is happening on the world market today and what are environmental objectives. So, in my opinion, these special measures must be put in place in Ida-Viru County. We have also done so in the government, we have created certain reliefs so that it is industry in Ida-Virumaa that will be hit less. I think that these discussions must definitely be continued. In my opinion, the Unemployment Insurance Fund also finances education in the Estonian language, which is important. These are the measures that we can and must implement. Today, certainly, the large oil shale sector in Ida-Viru County, I think, must be looked at how I say, with a different focus and help it. The number of people who may be unemployed there is not in tens but in hundreds.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U45	Jevgeni Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! My question concerns democracy and the conclusions that you have drawn in this context, and if this is to be done twice again, what should be learned from it. In fact, during this period, Parliament has adopted four laws linked to the crisis, one of which has not been declared by the President, two have said that there is also, say, examples of poor legislation, etc. They have not caused quite a critical debate, both in this Chamber and in the wider public. Does it not seem to you that this type of problem could have been avoided if, in the government, perhaps a little more structurally and systematically planned at the beginning of the crisis, how to take the opposition into this process and share responsibility for strategic decisions on this issue? Tactical decisions are for the government to make, that is clear, but from a more strategic point of view, the opposition could be better involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U47	Thank you. If this point was aimed at involving the opposition, then I say that Estonia has been, is today and will certainly remain a democratic rule of law. I have personally tried to make every effort to ensure that the opposition is informed, I have tried as much as possible to present the decisions to the opposition groups and politicians, to explain the situation, whether it is, as I said in my speech, the meetings of the body of elders, be it the meetings of the political groups. I am very pleased that there was also an opportunity to attend a meeting of the Social Democratic Party Group, for example, via the video bridge. Thank you for this opportunity. We have also done so within the framework of the committees. Perhaps the Prime Minister has not, under normal circumstances, participated as much in committee meetings as in the online environment during this crisis. There was at some point a question of whether, for example, the opposition should have been involved in any way in the government's COVID-19 committee. I think it was a government committee. After all, we always rely on the separation of executive and legislative powers. Not all members of the government were involved. There has been an opinion that there could have been a representative of employers or trade unions or, I don't know, a representative of local governments. But it is clear that, in my view, the most important part of this crisis was that dialogue had to be maintained. In my opinion, we kept this dialogue with the opposition in the Riigikogu constantly. I personally sent and sent forward.• If the Riigikogu wishes it, of course, every morning reviews of the state of the crisis. In my opinion, what the President of the Riigikogu did to be meetings of the Council of Elders was very reasonable. For example, there is a great deal of opposition proposals taken into account in the exit strategy. I know that some opposition politicians asked whether it was even worth doing so, that it would not be taken into account anyway. On the contrary, it is accounted for. They were counted, I can't say 100 percent, but in most of them. Could anything have been done better? There's always something better to do. If, during this outbreak, all the answers had been clear, known and there was, well, what would have been the problem. But none of the countries had them, neither did Estonia. I think that the retrospect and analysis, which are these lessons, must certainly be done, and this must also be seen on the part of democracy. There was also a hint on your question that the President has rejected some laws. In my opinion, they were more involved in sensitive personal data and issuing or not issuing them, who sees it. But if we're talking about a hotline or a crisis hotline of 1247, then yes, I agree, we can fix it. I think it would be very reasonable for the Riigikogu to do this in a modified form. Legislation can also be better addressed than it was during the crisis. After all, the lesson is that Estonia was never, I think, so basically thought through that if we go into an emergency situation, what is the level of management, and if we come out of the emergency situation, what are these levels? I think the Riigikogu gave it 165 more legal clarity with the SE. These lessons should certainly be looked at and done in the analysis of these two laws, both the Nets and the HOS, which is the Emergency Act, which the President has also referred to in his speech. I think that makes sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U48	Thank you. Prime Minister, there are no further questions for you. Now all the political groups have the opportunity to speak. The call length is 5 + 3 minutes. I am opening negotiations, and first of all I would like to ask Kaja Kallas on behalf of the Reform Party Group. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U49	Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Today is the end of the emergency, and the Prime Minister thanked everyone here to the right and to the left. It's nice and polite in words, of course, but unfortunately, we know how things really were. The reality was that the government did not cooperate in any way with the Riigikogu in an emergency. No proposals were taken into account, no warnings were heard. Tuldi's clusterware, even the cluster of clusterware, passed laws that had no connection with the resolution of the emergency situation. In the midst of the most bitter time of crisis, the government found time to discuss a draft with symbolic meaning in order, in any case, to show the opposition their place. It even went so far that the president didn't announce a law that was adopted in a hurry. When we asked the Riigikogu to discuss the strategy of exiting the state from the crisis, the Prime Minister did not want to come to the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu. But now, after the state of emergency, or post factum, we are doing a seeming debate here on the initiative of the Prime Minister. This is not cooperation with the Riigikogu. This is not taking the Riigikogu into account. Informing afterwards is not a discussion of the strategy. Sending overviews is not about involving the Riigikogu. The emergency is over. However, this does not mean that politicians can set foot straight because there are many unresolved issues and the confusion caused by the emergency situation. They say there's gonna be another wave of the virus. The economic crisis and the financial crisis are still ahead. The rapid economic measures promised have not taken place. Out of the 1.5 billion KredEx companies have reached only 70 million. These are the challenges that really should be resolved all together, as broad as possible, not only in the party, in the government's enclosed backrooms, on the basis of its wisdom. Solutions should be sought for people, including by involving the opposition in substance, rather than by thanking them fraudulently afterwards. The Prime Minister's concern that the second wave will come is of little practical use. People and entrepreneurs cannot plan their lives on the basis of the fact that maybe everything has to stop again in the autumn. We must, in the future, be able to stop the virus immediately in the outbreak, keep society as open as possible, provide regular care and find a social balance in living with the virus. The emergency situation is over for this time, we will no longer race with time, and we will be able to reason calmly on the possible future stages of the corona crisis. Once we have agreed on a common plan to deal with the virus, we will be able to focus again on everything that has been left behind in recent months. Shortening treatment queues, adjusting hospitals so that all treatment should not be closed. Collection of data on affected persons and rapid response, not general restrictions. Parents need clarity on how kindergartens and schools work in the autumn when the virus can come back. We know that the educational gap between children with different opportunities is getting bigger when children do not go to school. We cannot allow any child to fall out of the school system altogether. These are invisible victims that cost the whole of society dearly. Workers and businesses need clear messages about how trade and cultural events will work, what restrictions are to be imposed on entrepreneurship. Is there any hope that we will again attract tourists here, or is it the government's view that tourists and foreigners are not finally welcome here? Ignorance leads to unemployment and poverty. The crisis is an opportunity to increase the competitiveness of the economy. The crisis is an opportunity to strengthen health care. The crisis is an opportunity for smarter public transport and logistics. The crisis is an opportunity to put aside a large number of general development plans and bureaucracy in ministries and to focus on the steps that will bring about a concrete positive change. The meaning of the crisis, the courage of decision-making and a fresh look are what we need. We have to go through these things before the second wave comes. We can't let go of the summer to find ourselves in ignorance again in the fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U50	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the Group of the Kersti Sarapuu Central Party, please speak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U51	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, At midnight, the emergency situation in Estonia ended, which lasted a total of 67 days. It hasn't been a Cinderella story where the weights are overcome and everything gets in place as miraculously. Fighting an unknown enemy has presented great challenges, and overcoming them has required extraordinary effort from society as a whole. I don't dare say we're safe yet, but it's still a step towards normal. The crisis caused by coronavir brought us into a whole new situation and led to the first emergency situation in the re-independence Republic of Estonia. Looking back, this was the only right step in the interests of public health. I believe that this is acceptable to all those in the Chamber, regardless of the outlook and political affiliation. Of course, when the government announced an emergency on March 12, the atmosphere was alarming. Everything that seemed far away was suddenly present, and it was understandable that at that moment there were more questions than answers. It has not been easy for our country to resolve such a sudden and rapid crisis, because there is no history of battle, and if you look beyond your borders, no country in the world can boast with this experience. Despite this, Estonia has actually done well. We did not escape without victims, but we were able to control the spread of the disease and avoid the worst. That's confirmed by the numbers. The number of people affected amounts to 1800 in Estonia, but it remains below the European average when it is taken into account for the population. We've put an end to this disease for today. Here I congratulate all the people of Estonia who have responsibly followed the established rules and instructions. This has not been an easy task, but because of people's understanding, the government did not have to go as far as another European country, where the rules were much stricter. When we assessed the situation step by step, we were able to maintain a balance between the freedoms of our people, the general functioning of society and the steps needed to contain the virus. However, thanks are also due to scientists and a number of authorities who have kept an eye on the spread of the virus and provided full support for decision-making. Of course, a deep bow must be made to people who have faced the virus on the frontline, leaving their personal lives and interests in the background and making maximum contributions to the country and to the people living here. I would also like to pay special tribute to the government, which has often led us through this crisis at the expense of our sleep hours. It can be said that, for a long time, there is a ray of sunshine between the clouds of anxiety. The situation in Europe is quietly stabilising and all countries are substantially engaged in preparing and implementing an exit strategy. However, there is no certainty about tomorrow, because, as many experts say, we must not lose our guard and take the situation lightly. I therefore call on people to be responsible in all decisions, because the worst that could happen would be the increase in the number of new cases of illness and the re-introduction of measures. I believe we all want to avoid this scenario. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U52	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please speak on behalf of Siim Pohlaku. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U53	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the Government and the Prime Minister for the work they have done in managing the state of emergency that has ended, and I would like the strength for the future. The implementation of the emergency situation and measures, at least today, justified themselves. Estonian hospitals were not blocked and the dead are not counted in hundreds or thousands today. The Estonian people were cautious and followed instructions. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, I would like to thank all those who followed the rules in emergency situations, and certainly all the workers on the front line: medical personnel, police officers, shoppers and many more. Thank you. The current crisis has highlighted and is likely to continue to reveal a number of weaknesses in our society, in our national systems. The disadvantages of the stormy globalisation of recent decades and the need for a national economy and for a functioning rural economy are also well underway. We take the opportunity there out of bad, we continue to be disciplined, we continue to be careful for the Nordic people, we draw conclusions from the bottlenecks in the crisis, we correct them [the bottlenecks] and we move forward as a united and stronger country and nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U54	Thank you. Next, please, Priit Sibul on behalf of the Isamaa Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U55	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Honorable Prime Minister! We've been good. I am not thinking of a government here, not even the Riigikogu, I am thinking of our Estonian people, who followed the orders of the crisis committee and stayed at home. That is what allowed us to put a stop to the outbreak and reach today's situation. Thank you, good people of Estonia. I very much hope that we will be successful in curbing the economic downturn, because our businesses are competitive and we only have to support the economy where the market itself does not work. We know that the world is intertwined and global, and it is important for us to support businesses where it is done in other countries so that our businesses can remain competitive. Really, I think it is important that the state intervenes as little as possible in the economy and only where it is only necessary. Today, a number of colleagues have mentioned and welcomed the wage subsidy measure. I think it has really helped a great many entrepreneurs and many workers, but I do not dare to say today whether this measure was good and positive or not. I think that, unfortunately, we can only assess ex post whether this wage measure worked in the context of people getting away from redundancy and being able to continue to work, whether it was the short-term crisis that we survived, or whether after that it is still going to be laid off, and it turns out that in fact this measure was beyond our means and capabilities. So I think we need to come back to this issue and evaluate it only afterwards. The emergency is over. What can we learn from this crisis? The previous speakers referred to various cluster laws. I have not spoken to my group, not to mention the coalition, but there was an idea that I think would deserve serious thinking and use in the future, but which we did not have too seriously to discuss. We remember the previous crises. In times of crisis, we are living in an existing crisis and trying to resolve it with different laws, but I think that in such cases, it would be best for us by law to set ourselves a deadline for when and for how long this law can apply. I am quite convinced that we, too, in this Chamber six months later, are looking at the crisis in a completely different way than we are seeing it here today. I think it's something we should all think about and discuss. We have adopted an additional budget and I do not know whether we still have to accept it, but we certainly need to adapt to reality and real life. Indeed, as indicated, the head of the Tax and Customs Board has spoken about what is happening. However, we probably also need to adopt a negative supplementary budget, because we have missed some of the expenditure that certainly does not make sense this year, and the public sector must also adapt to the reality that we have. It is certainly not necessary to save in a senseless way, but where possible and necessary, and to invest in those places where money comes from most quickly in the economy and where society can win the most. I'm neither village smart nor Santa Claus. I therefore believe that we need to discuss and, together, reach the best solutions. I would like to wish us all a cold head and heated debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U56	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Indrek Saare, I would like to ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U57	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me first thank all our Estonian people. We have been well controlled in this health crisis because we have behaved wisely, cautiously and solidarityly as our people have been at existential times. This is despite the often confusing, conflicting, and unfortunately politically egotistical messages of the government. It must be said that the people are wiser than the government. The Prime Minister before us has always enjoyed talking about a coherent society, true, in recent times somewhat less than just after the formation of today's coalition. Perhaps this point has gone unnoticed, but it may also be that the inability of the Coalition created by Ratas to cooperate with one another in substance has finally broken his delusions about this government. Of course, we can also discuss who is actually running this government and giving it direction, but let it be another time and place, because today we are talking about the end of the emergency situation and the accompanying and accompanying situation. To get control of the health crisis, the government put a stop to life. This resulted in a number of inconveniences for the people, as well as the artificial introduction of a large part of the economy into a coma, as Ardo Hansson, in the debate on a crucial national issue recently organised by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, said, 'Life after the crisis as a whole society', right here on the floor. We have tolerated quarantine well as a society, and now we need to recover. Clearly, if we leave the recovery to market forces alone, there will be a great deal of new misfortune and injustice, and society will be hit much more painfully than acting in solidarity and coherence. Here, the state must keep the initiative and come to the aid of those in need. I should have done that in a lot of things. Thankfully, thanks to earlier governments, including statesmen, such as Ivari Padar, as the former Governor of Eesti Pank, quoted just now, the state has a very good capacity to borrow. So it can only be left behind if you want it. However, it seems at least as confusing as the government's other messages and positions. As I recall from the outset, Jüri Ratas has justified sitting in his Prime Minister's chair with a promise to build a more cohesive society. This is all the more incomprehensible in a situation where we do not intend to help a large number of our people who are in financial trouble as a result of the country's decisions. All those people whose contract of employment has ended with the agreement of the parties or on their own initiative have found themselves in a situation where they will have to cope with the EUR 189 per month if they fail to get a job in today's difficult circumstances. There is obviously no need to describe how difficult this is in a rapidly falling economic situation where the number of unemployed will increase by thousands in a week. How to cope with EUR 189 per month if it falls below the minimum subsistence requirement? And what should those newcomers who have worked as a self-employed person put on the bread, and to whom the state comes a little help only if their turnover has been above EUR 20000? How can we explain the coherence to small businesses if they have to pay not only three times the interest on their loans to continue with their business, but also pawn their personal assets? If farmers fail to harvest because the government is taking advantage of the crisis in order to live up to their outbursts, is this a new coherence? It is unlikely that coherence will be helped by a situation where, after reading the government's further announcement of emergency situations, or now also by reading the emergency announcement, there will be'significant clarifications' from one radio broadcast on Sunday afternoon, where the ministers of one family will turn the babies to the other. Increasing the already increased stress of school children and their parents with mixed messages, whether, how and when to go to school, masks in front, masks off, not to mention government round games, and ridicule of parliamentary democracy, because everything has been done carefully to kill the Riigikogu's substantive debates, starting with ignoring all opposition proposals relating to the emergency situation... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U58	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U59	... with the adoption of additional budget and other important laws and ending with the repeated moves of the President of the Riigikogu to disengage the entire Riigikogu. This is particularly contrasting with the way in which the Nordic countries systematically worked for the most open social debate and involved the opposition in the crisis decisions, thereby achieving a large social consensus. Against this background, the Prime Minister's talk of coherence and inclusion will have an extremely cynical effect on propaganda. And yet, we don't have time to stay and discuss when the next wave or some other epidemic will come. It is very important that we use this lesson now and now, and that the government urgently put together a strategy to prepare for proper health crises, together with concrete action plans, so that we can thoroughly discuss and practice these scenarios in society, as we do in the case of military defence. I also hope that the government, at least now, will understand the importance of funding research to deal with both health and economic crises, and will implement the agreement that R &amp; D funding must be quickly brought to 1% of GDP. It is high time for the government to acknowledge the mistakes made, to engage in substantive cooperation and to show that they actually understand their responsibility to remove society from the crisis, so that no one is left behind and we come out of this crisis as a whole society as possible and can go forward together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U60	Thank you. I'd like the speech chair to conclude with Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U61	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good listeners! First of all, thank you for this debate. I would like to say thank you for your participation in the negotiations, both to the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, to the Fatherland and to the representatives of the Centre Party Group. What you said was important to me. It is quite surprising, of course, that the Social Democrats by the mouth of the party chairman, Indrek Saare, I understood, quoting Mr Ardo Hansson, said that the economy was being taken into a coma with restrictions. I'm sorry, but first of all, Estonia wasn't completely locked. There were certain restrictions, but I don't know the Social Democrats could, I think, be worried about their roots still about how it is about public health. These restrictions were only made, Mr Indrek Saar, to help ensure that the spread of the COVID-19 in Estonia is as low as possible, that human health is good and that as little as possible should be left alive as a result of the COVID-19. That was the reason. It is true that these restrictions give rise to certain economic concerns. I think that our previous President, Toomas Hendrik Ilves, in an interview (I think it was on Morning Anuga) that everything can be built up, but the most important thing is people's health, people's lives. I share that view. You're worried about the economy, you say it's the most important and important. Like I said, priority for me was quite different. It was human life and health. I want to tell the Reform Party and Kaja Kallas that I can share it with the left and right thanks, which I understood was criticism. I will certainly share that, because there are indeed many people to thank in this crisis. But I did not hear thank you to the people of Estonia from your speech. You must have forgotten it completely. You said that the government did not cooperate with the Riigikogu, that no reviews and things were sent. I asked one of the elders, it was on the side of the [crisis] side, whether these reviews are needed, that if I interfere in any way with the members of the Riigikogu and that is the problem, then of course I am willing to give them up immediately. I remember that the member of the board of the Riigikogu, the second vice-president Siim Kallas, said that no, he would very much like these reviews. I said, "Okay, I'll send them along." If that's a problem, we can make sure you don't get those reviews anymore. The Government and I wanted to cooperate as closely as possible with the Riigikogu, the Riigikogu committees, throughout this crisis. I think that this cooperation, as I said, between the Prime Minister and the Riigikogu, the Riigikogu committees was much closer than it has been under normal circumstances. I understand there's a lot of criticism in this KredEx thing. I met with the Banking Association, and KredEx was there. They said that the Estonian companies actually received the first relief when they turned to the banks, by means of a payment leave. This second relief you're talking about, this 1.5 billion, which is a guarantee or a guarantee, that's the next step. In my opinion, KredEx is working very hard to evaluate applications. Applications have been received for a total loan amount of 284 million and 76 million for loan guarantees. As of today, contracts have been reached with a loan amount of 7 million and guarantees of 33 million. Several applicants have also been rejected, but there are 221 million applications in active proceedings. It's a job anyway. Now, this foreign communication problem. I think Estonia showed a very active line in external communication, it was completely unique, and opening the borders of the Baltic states was such a mini-Schengen. There was very good cooperation with Finland, and on 14 May borders were opened for workers. But in conclusion, I would also like to say in this speech that it is right and it must be said to our people that we are resting in Estonia this summer, we are in Estonia this summer. Finally, I would like to thank all members of the Riigikogu once again for their reflection and work, whether in the body of parents, committees, political groups, large halls, letters and telephone calls, meetings, media and public appearances. Thank you very much, and I very much hope that the emergency situation will not have to go again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U62	Thank you. Mart Võrguship's got his hands up. Is there a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U63	I wanted to ask. There should be a debate and a debate. Is the conclusion of the Prime Minister the promotion and discussion of the debate, or is it a place for reprimanding members of the Riigikogu? I've got more of that last one in my ears right now. Can you explain, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U64	I'm certainly not going to be discussing what it looked like to anyone. But, of course, as with the drafts, the Prime Minister has the right to speak at the end of the political statement and the Prime Minister has exercised that right. Just as all members of the Riigikogu, all representatives of the political groups presented their thoughts in their own speeches, so the Prime Minister has the same right. Our first item is over. Thank you, Prime Minister and honourable Members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U65	We will go to today's second item, the third reading of the draft law amending the Product Compliance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. All political groups have the opportunity to make a speech, a speech, if there is a wish for negotiation. But there is no wish for negotiation. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 125 on the draft. That's what we're going to do. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law amending the Product Compliance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic (125 SE). This is a final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There were 83 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U66	The next item is the third reading of Bill 180 of the General Part of the Civil Code Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other laws (expansion of electronic possibilities in the organisation of meetings and the adoption of decisions). Do the political groups want to negotiate? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 180 SE. I vote on the draft law amending the General Part of the Civil Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws (180 SE). Please take a stand and vote. There were 81 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the final vote, no respondents or abstentions. Dear Riigikogu, the bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U67	Today's fourth item, the first reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu on the implementation of state reform submitted by the Government of the Republic. I'd like to ask Jaak Aabi, Minister of State Administration, to serve as a waitress. Yes, Kaja Kallas, please! Is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U68	Thank you. Good manager! The draft decision of the Riigikogu will be discussed next. We have separation of powers, the Riigikogu acts separately. Why is a member of the government reporting a draft decision of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U69	Since such a proposal came from the Commission and the Bureau agreed with the proposals of the committees, Minister Jaak Aab is therefore the rapporteur. The Bureau has not proposed this. Yes, please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U70	Thank you. Just in point 2 of this document, there is also how the Riigikogu is very important. We have just heard here in the debate on the previous point how the Riigikogu is very important. However, could it be that the Riigikogu prepares its own decisions, reports itself and then discusses the will of the Riigikogu, not the will of the government on this matter? Maybe we should close this case here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U71	Thank you. Of course, you have the opportunity to submit a proposal for interruption, but since this draft has been submitted by the Government of the Republic, it is also perfectly logical that it will be reported by a representative of the Government. Looks like there's no more procedural questions. Are these questions you want to ask a question, or are these procedural questions? Silence. The hand's up on Jürgen Ligi. I assume the rest are questions for the waitress. Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U72	Thank you. As a member of the Riigikogu with some experience, it is still a question of what procedure it is when the government tells the Riigikogu in advance what it should decide. It's some very, very different policy. I understand that the coalition, whoever it is, prepares some documents and formalises them itself as a decision in the Riigikogu, but here, in a completely linear manner, the Minister must submit a draft decision to the Riigikogu. I honestly don't remember that from the past. What procedure is this and how good do you think this practice is?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U73	The government submits drafts to the Riigikogu. This is another bill from the government. The government is also working on matters of state reform, so that is why today we have the Minister here to present this draft. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U74	Thank you, Mr President. I have a procedural question about the procedure for asking a procedural question. Last time we talked about it, if we wanted to ask a procedural question, we would raise our hand. Now you thought those who were there would like to ask a procedural question. Has the procedure for asking a procedural question changed in the meantime?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U75	Yeah, well, if you want to waste another hour and a half just a blank cap and block Parliament's work, then I'm ready for it. I can answer your questions once and a half or twice an hour and a half again, but indeed, our law on home and working procedures says that if a member of the Riigikogu wishes to ask a procedural question, he will give a sign with his hand. There was a whole series of registered speeches here. I asked you what it was, procedural questions. Whoever gave the hand the signal got a chance to present it. I saw Jüri Jaanson had his hands up, too. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U76	Thank you very much. I am really interested in whether the Board of the Riigikogu does not look into the matter in the case of draft laws and draft decisions submitted by the Government. We see that the government essentially creates its own tasks through the Riigikogu. This is only one task at the moment, but it may also go to the point that the government will submit to the Riigikogu, for example, a draft decision to shut itself down. What happens then? I think that the Riigikogu should still make its own decisions, those relating specifically to the task of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U77	Thank you. I am sure that the government will not come to the Riigikogu with such unconstitutional proposals. Even if such a thing should happen, I am sure that the Riigikogu will never let through or take such a decision to arrest itself. We know that this has unfortunately happened in our history, but I am also sure that all today's members of the Riigikogu, whether from the coalition or the opposition, have learned so much from our historical experience and are still standing for democracy, so we will not allow this to happen. Even hypothetically, I find it inappropriate for a member of the Riigikogu to propose such opportunities in this Chamber. But on your second question, which you started, you should know well how the procedure works. The government will submit drafts to the Riigikogu in this very Chamber, they will go to committees, the committees will submit a proposal to the Riigikogu Board when they will be discussed in the Chamber, after having discussed this matter themselves. All these committees also have our honourable opposition representatives, who have already discussed this issue, and then the committees will propose to the Bureau when they would like to discuss it in the Chamber. The Bureau, putting together next week's agenda, will take account of their wishes and send these drafts to the large hall. Today, when we approved this week's work programme, the agenda, all of you, honourable opposition representatives and, of course, representatives of the coalition, voted in favour of the agenda, and that is how it ended up on our agenda. Madis Milling.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U78	Thank you very much. With all due respect, the President of the Riigikogu, it is not your task to review the procedural questions or requests of the members of the Riigikogu or to evaluate them. Your job is to answer these questions. But now I'm asking too. I'm still confused about how you can still ask a procedural question. Do you need to give a hand signal, register on the tablet, or do both at the same time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U79	It would be very good to do both at once, indeed, then this order will also be much better. Who am I now... First of all, let us take the author of the first question. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U80	Thank you, Mr President. You must have been wrong about the fact that the government or the Riigikogu has not gone against the Constitution. There have also been draft laws that have been sent back to us precisely because of the conflict with the Constitution. So I hope it was a glitch. But would you please explain the question that I didn't understand? There was a phrase, I so understood, that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had recommended that Minister Jaak Abi be a rapporteur for the discussion of this particular draft. Is that true or not? How did this happen or what was the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U81	The government is the initiator, and a government representative is here to present this bill. Please, the author of the first question, Urmas Espenberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U82	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I have a proposal for reform party hounds, so maybe we can stop this bull this time and start doing some real work.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U83	I'm sorry! Since we had a debate with the vice-chairman on the exchange of chairmen, every two hours the Presidency should be changed (I kindly offered that I could answer the question to the end), I missed the question. I'm sorry! I ask Urmas Espenberg to repeat.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U84	The manager explained to you, reformists, how the procedure works. Maybe we'll go to the actual work, enough of that bullshit!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U85	Thank you. This proposal is certainly very good, and that is what I support. But there are more questions. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U86	Thank you. As I understand it, the problem now is that the rapporteur for this draft is Minister Jaak Aab by the Government of the Republic. However, § 90 of our Home and Working Procedures Act states that the Government of the Republic has the right to initiate the Act. Paragraph 98 (3) provides that the first reading begins with a report by the originator or his representative. Perhaps the representative of the Government of the Republic is our minister, Jaak Aab. So, in my opinion, all the rules of procedure are in place right now. If anyone else from the Reform Party or from the Socialist Party wants to make any kind of protest, I would ask them for a specific reference to the grounds on which the Home and Working Procedures Act has been violated.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U87	Thank you. Your clarification is absolutely correct, that's exactly what it is. Jevgeni Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U88	Thank you. This clarification was not correct because he spoke of the initiation of the law and it is a draft decision. But the same paragraph says that a draft decision may indeed be initiated by the Government of the Republic. This debate is really very unconstructive, but as President of the sitting, you could, however, draw colleagues' attention to the fact that these questions that are being asked are not, in fact, procedural questions of their nature. Is the type of suggestion that Lord Abel is going to make sense or not? I also think that this is relatively pointless, and I am sorry that Jaak is in this situation, but there is no conflict with the law. For example, the fundamentals of climate policy were adopted in the previous composition in the same way as the Riigikogu's decision. You have to look at it the other way. If the government considers that something is important enough that it should not be adopted as a decision of the government, that it needs a broader mandate and a broader agreement in society, then it will be initiated as a decision of the Riigikogu in order to have a 'longer-term view' across the government. Consequently, this proposal is here today. Indeed, the President of the sitting could also try to call on colleagues to stay within the framework of the law, but for that, of course, the President of the sitting should know the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U89	Yes, thank you! That is exactly the case, but we hear it every day, and today we heard here the Prime Minister's political statement about how the President of the Riigikogu is trying to shut the Riigikogu down. So, coming to the greatest extent to our opposition members, I have had questions asked which, indeed, are quite far from procedural issues. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U90	No, I don't have a procedural question. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I have a question for the minister, but I'd like to wait for the minister's speech first.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U91	Thank you. In that case, please delete [call request]. Jüri Jaanson, do you have a procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U92	Yeah, I'd like to ask. In your previous reply to me, you mentioned that the Riigikogu has discussed the agenda. However, I would like to point out that we are not discussing whether we should remove this item from the agenda, but are still discussing whether this item should even be put to the procedure by the Bureau. It is essentially part of the agenda. The question is whether, in the future, any issues concerning the draft should be discussed before the agenda is adopted. Or how do you see this thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U93	Yes, there have been many such issues in the past. Of course, whenever the government submits a draft, it is either a proposal for a decision or a bill, then the representative of the government will come here to introduce it to the Chamber of Riigikogu. It's perfectly normal, and that's how it's supposed to work. So thank you! It took a long time to get back to the agenda. Now I give the floor to Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U94	Honourable Chairman! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! However, I have the honorable task of introducing the draft decision of the Riigikogu to you about the implementation of the state reform. The draft has indeed been prepared by the Government of the Republic on the basis of proposals made by ministries, the State Reform Foundation and the National Reform Radar. It has also taken into account the draft strategy 'Estonia 2035' and the decision of the current Riigikogu 'The fundamentals of state reform and good administration', which was adopted during the previous Riigikogu. No country is, or will ever be, completely complete. The state organisation and the activities of the state affect us all every day. Therefore, there is a need for an agreement at Parliament level on innovations and changes. The decision of the Riigikogu confirms the direction we want to reach with the innovations of our state organisation in the coming years. This guide can be used in day-to-day work, both in planning and in decision-making. The draft is a more comprehensive and concrete development of the current decision on the reform of the state. The basic principles and orientations of the state reform in this draft are primarily focused on state governance and the efficiency of the state apparatus and do not claim to replace reforms of different sectoral policies. Nor is he likely to answer once and for all the general and ideological question 'Which country do we want? ' but only offers solutions to continue as a democratic and sustainable country in a changing world. The longer developments of Estonia as a country will be agreed in the long-term strategy of Estonia, or 'Estonia 2035', which I hope will be discussed in the Riigikogu this year and will also be presented by the government to the Riigikogu. The state reform will make government more sustainable, efficient and more responsive to the needs of the population. State reform is a continuous process that must change and probably has already changed our thinking. Therefore, state reform cannot be considered as a time-limited process with a clear starting and closing date. Government is changing. It is expected that public administration will become more flexible, that the state will become more transparent and operational in the background, and that cooperation between authorities will play an increasingly important role in providing public services. The country's role in social and health care will certainly increase in the future. In view of these changes, a draft has also been drawn up. Particular attention has also been paid to regional policy, teleworking and the development of e-government, the importance of which has come out in an emergency situation. The testing and use of innovative solutions is considered essential for all activities. The principles of the draft decision are structured with four lines of action in mind. Firstly, it is a future-oriented country where people's sense of ownership towards their country is seen to be deepened, involving more people in policy-making through public discussions. Special attention should be paid to those who are currently facing difficulties in securing opportunities for participation in society. In order to ensure a better regional balance in Parliament, there is also a proposal for Riigikogu elections to form electoral districts with a more equal number of mandates. But here I will certainly stress: the government does not write such things to the Riigikogu. It is intended to be discussed here in the Riigikogu. If the Riigikogu has proposals for elections, composition or powers of the Riigikogu, it is possible to supplement this draft decision accordingly. Here I look forward to the contribution and assistance of the Riigikogu. Secondly, there is an adaptable and active state. Fragmentation, bureaucracy, competition for budgetary resources and an increasingly negative demographic trend are challenges to state governance. The work of the general government needs to be made more flexible, cooperation between institutions improved and opportunities for a more coherent functioning. The restructuring of different institutions has already started, creating more comprehensive sector-specific arrangements and services of a more uniform quality. At the moment, as far as I know, so-called consolidation proposals in three areas are also being read in the Riigikogu. Consolidation of support services for public authorities, which has already started, will also continue. The Cabinet recently adopted fundamental decisions concerning, for example, consolidation of the wage and personnel accounts of foundations in the State Support Services Centre. Thirdly, the state is geared to people's needs. In an emergency situation, we have been greatly helped by e-state solutions. The situation has also shown that it is still necessary to develop not only the image of the e-state, but also the smart solutions of the digital state, cyber security, interlinking national databases and registers. It is certainly important to have access to services wherever they are and they must take into account a human-centred and event-based approach. Finally, the country must be regionally balanced. In order to better manage the country's regional development and to achieve balanced development, it is important to achieve greater territorial decentralisation in state governance and to enhance cooperation between the state and local government and communities. Flexible labour mobility, flexible recruitment and teleworking must be encouraged, creating opportunities for working for the state in all areas of Estonia. In order to implement these principles, an Action Plan for State Reform of the Government of the Republic for 2019 has been drawn up, which already includes specific activities, actors and timetables. This action plan, on which we clearly stated, when adopting it, that it was temporary or provisional, was adopted by the government on 1 August 2019. There's a total of 39 points. If we revise this action plan, we will see that it is a really challenging action plan, which we are actually working on every day. Why was he original? Because we expect input from the Riigikogu, society and interest groups. And this plan is not static, it can be constantly improved, amended, improved. The government has decided that it will listen to these proposals and that the corrections will also be made in this action plan. It is a pleasure that the Riigikogu has formed a support group for state reform. I very much hope to discuss all these issues with the support group. In preparation for this decision, we had meetings with the proposers of the State Reform Foundation, the National Reform Radar, I have discussed these issues with the Confederation of Employers, the Trade Union. So these aren't just ideas that appeared in the office somewhere quiet. As I mentioned, I do not see any contradiction here with the decision adopted in the previous Riigikogu, where the fundamentals of state reform were discussed. A National Reform Coordination Board was also recently set up. This is the working instrument where I, as the minister responsible for state reform, can keep in touch with the leadership of the ministries. It's such a good collection where we can monitor, monitor and monitor these activities. I would certainly stress that the coordination body, which includes the Chancellors of all ministries, is also a think tank. It is the executive officials, the leading officials who are daily in the executive agencies of state administration, who can make proposals to complement this same action plan and to introduce new activities. One example: if we were together last week on the way to the video, of course, just as is the case today, the proposal was that the crisis telephone 1247, when we are going to miss the crisis, could become, for example, a state aid telephone. A person who wishes to receive any information about the functioning of the state, about services, could ask for it by telephone. Recent calls show that people often no longer ask about the crisis, not about wearing a mask or about restrictions, but are asking because such a phone has been announced publicly, about the functioning of the state, about services, etc. So here is a good and concrete proposal, which we will certainly be discussing in the near future, how such a telephone number could become the number of public services and state aid. The procedure was discussed here. I don't want to interfere with your discussion. The background was that these principles, as I said, are based on proposals made by very many target groups. One of the key documents that we used in the coalition negotiations was the proposals of the State Reform Foundation. We have also taken into account all other proposals. Such a decision was made when we made the Government of the Republic's work plan that, in addition to this action plan, where we are really based on concrete actions, which is a state reform agenda at government level, we would nevertheless bring these principles, fundamentals and direct discussions to the Riigikogu so that everyone can express their opinion. No one will write to the Riigikogu what it will do with this bill, it is up to you. This is our vision, not only based on the thoughts and editorials of one coalition, but actually it dates back to a long time, based on the experience of state administration and government administration, what all Estonian governments have done. It's not just inventive wisdom. We want either your approval or the decision to reject these directions and principles, as well as good suggestions for complementing them. As far as I know about the Commission's debate, it is planned that proposals can be tabled until practically autumn. September 14th, as far as I know, if you confirm that, there's a deadline. So this issue can be discussed very thoroughly in political groups, voters, interest groups and the document can be completed and improved. Thank you for listening. I am happy to answer your questions now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U95	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U96	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! It is a pleasure that you have noticed that such a support group has indeed been made in Parliament. There are also three constructive reform parties and one social democrat. We had our first meeting last Tuesday, Jüri Raidla, former CEO of the State Reform Foundation, presented to us. We also looked at this draft decision, we found it has a very eloquent and beautiful title 'The implementation of the state reform', but there was a consensual question as to whether the initiator of the draft had deliberately avoided a more precise formulation and definition of the state reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U97	The aim of the state reform has been formulated both in our action plan and in this decision. When I say human words, we want a more efficient, better functioning and user-friendly country.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U98	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns the wording in Part II of the explanatory memorandum under the heading 'State oriented towards the future'. I quote: 'Presentory democracy is damaged by the fact that the Riigikogu remains only part of the work on the text already drafted, not by analysing it or by clarifying whether and what problem the draft is trying to solve. ' Next: 'A more balanced involvement of the opposition in political choices is also part of the consensus principle. ' The question is, what must be the situation in the Estonian country or what will occur, so that this provision will indeed be observed. During the end of the emergency situation, unfortunately, the opposition was not involved in the decision-making process. There was more about it in the hall today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U100	Thank you for your question. It's a topical question. I think the Prime Minister has also responded to this here just recently, apart from a political statement. I've been in this process, in this crisis. It wasn't easy. As the Prime Minister said, he tried to do the maximum to involve the committees, the political groups, to talk about what the choices are. But it was really quick. The Riigikogu is, in fact, a higher power and fundamental decisions should always be negotiated. But we were in such a time frame. I'm just going to describe one thing. The Public Procurement Act also provides for open procurement for personal protective equipment. I've been exposed to this lately. If I had done open framework procurement, we would have gotten protection here by the end of May.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U101	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U102	Thank you. This draft decision raises a number of questions as to the added value that it creates in itself, as these lines of action are well formulated in general. The explanatory memorandum indicates that many questions can be answered in the strategy 'Estonia 2035'. In that case, the question is what this draft decision gives, as it were, could we not perhaps talk only about the strategy 'Estonia 2035', where all these issues could be discussed more specifically? I'm looking at "Future-oriented country" points 7 and 8. Eight points: we support innovation. I think it would be appropriate to ask when we will then reach 1% of GDP in financing R &amp; D expenditure. Or that the use of public resources must be transparent. At the same time, the National Audit Office has come out well with a critical audit. Perhaps I would have expected more specificity.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U103	Thank you for your question. As I said in my presentation, we do not reflect the content of sectoral policies here. We reflect these directions and actions, which will make the implementation of all policies in these areas better, more efficient, closer to people, better services for people and entrepreneurs. We describe the processes and activities that we use to deal with it. As far as the content of the areas, the thicker country, the thinner country, is concerned, it is not here. While we are oriented to the fact that in the existing space, where there are certain taxes, certain costs, try to use them as efficiently and as well as possible and get a better result within these frameworks. I'd try to describe it like that. But what is the content of these areas in social policy, health policy, defence policy, whatever it is, is the 'Estonia 2035' strategic document. I am pleased that he will arrive at the Riigikogu, he will be prepared in a yes government, he will play a greater role than in the past also the Prime Minister's Office and the State Chancellery. He used to be dragged from the Ministry of Finance. It will be brought to your debate, and you can also consider, evaluate and complement the longer view of the various sectoral policies here. So that's the difference between these two documents.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U104	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U105	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I am the last to complain about the specificity of this draft decision, in order not to say the other way around. I am absolutely convinced, knowing you that you have not prepared this document. This is a set of declarations. If we create a situation where the Riigikogu approves all of this today, for example, I would argue that nothing, not the slightest, is actually going to change; no ministry receives any obligation because the Riigikogu has approved this document. It's extremely round, there's no concreteity here. Another thing that is the problem, which Jaanus Karilaid actually pointed out: we are talking about the implementation of something, but the substance of this concept we do not know is that there is no concept. We are talking about the implementation of the state reform, but what is the reform of the state? There's no concept. This is, in fact, not my complaint to this document, but to one of the best experts in the reform of the state, from which it begins. Since this concept does not exist, I would argue that it is such a broad document, that the whole country is being reformed, but we are finally going nowhere. My proposal is to tighten it up considerably and narrow it down, to define the concept of state reform. You can still count on something if you have a deadline. Maybe we're still waiting for the concept. Why is there no such concept?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U106	Thank you for your question. I have also had many debates about this specificity with Jüri Raidla. The bill he prepared was very specific. Of course, Jüri was very interested in this side of the constitutional institutions. I immediately admit that in this dispute perhaps the Riigikogu should give more content. The content written here is, in fact, behind each of these points in the Government of the Republic's action plan, at least with some specific time frame. There was also a question here in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that why there are so many points where it is said that an analysis must be carried out. But at first we have to analyze it, it doesn't say right now it's going to start at this point. An example is the consolidation of the same agencies. At the beginning of the Government's work programme and in this reform agenda, there was also an analysis, but this analysis was already done by 1 August. On 1 August, there were concrete proposals and the results of these proposals for the three ministries you have in the Riigikogu as drafts. It's a natural process. On the other hand, if very precise actions are prescribed in the Riigikogu decision... Time is so changing and, in fact, all these plans and things are unlikely to be valid for a very long time. We are also constantly coming up with new ideas that can be implemented in a different way when we implement this plan. So the main directions should be described here. They are not in any way contrary to the document of the fundamentals which was adopted by the previous Riigikogu as a decision. But how do you say that? This is the choice between the largest possible generalisation, which is the decision of the Riigikogu on the fundamentals adopted in the previous composition, and a specific action plan. These are such directions for strengthening state governance in the near future. Effectiveness, better, more efficient and I would say that a country that is more friendly to people and entrepreneurs is a goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U107	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U108	Thank you. I have a relatively simple question for the Minister. You say in this document that it is important to reduce fragmentation or fragmentation in strategic planning to ensure integrity. One of the mechanisms is to do this by increasing the role of the Prime Minister and the State Chancellery. If you had to explain this position to someone a little bit more broadly, would you please do it? How do [to do this], which means increasing the role of Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U109	Thank you. I also mentioned in one reply that this strategy 'Estonia 2035' has been still in preparation for this plan to be approved by the government. That was the vision of the officials last year. We have just decided to reduce the development plans and discussed these issues several times in the government office. We have a deal. There used to be 45 government-level sectoral development plans, with 18 remaining under the current agreement. They are more general, they are transversal, i.e. there are no very narrow development plans that are confirmed at government level. These development plans, which concern a narrower area, are up to the ministries themselves to take up and adopt themselves, and also to negotiate with their interest groups. Raising the Prime Minister's responsibility. One particular decision is that if in the past the Ministry of Finance was carrying out the preparation of this general strategy 'Estonia 2035', it is now the State Chancellery. The proposal was also made in this same State Reform SA and Jüri Raidla, which we have taken into account here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U110	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U111	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. If the Riigikogu had initiated the reform of the state or made the draft decision, the Riigikogu would have entrusted the government with the task. The government has now come with a proposal to the Riigikogu that the government of the Riigikogu should be given what task. That is what my question is about. The National Audit Office has indicated on this draft that there are no clear choices and more precise objectives for reformers, i.e. it is well-general. When the Riigikogu makes this decision, it would not tell the government where we would like to get to exactly, and the government will be able to decorate it all on its own. In my opinion, maybe asking for a greater mandate, taking away the work of the Riigikogu is best characterised by the fact that you wish to propose with the government what the electoral districts could be in the next Riigikogu elections, which should be the work and role of the Riigikogu. Why do you want to take all this away from the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U112	Thank you, Lauri! Actually, that answer sounded like it once. Everything about the Riigikogu, the point that talks about the electoral circles, I would have even excluded from this draft decision, but this proposal was also included in the proposal by Jüri Raidla and found support. Much has been said about the fact that something has to be done to these circles because they are very different in terms of the number of mandates. The weight of a voice in different circles is no longer proportionate if the circles are so different in size. That's why this proposal got in here. But as I said, about everything that concerns the work of the Riigikogu, including the constitutional institutions, I very much look forward to the proposals of the Riigikogu. The government has more written down, let's say, those directions where we have some kind of action that can always be improved. You can also take a new course and carry out new activities. To that end, I look forward to proposals. Well, he's been living a relatively practical life, hasn't he? We also have a certain experience. Let's look at the previous government and its activities, some of which will continue. The reform of the state is not that we are setting off somewhere and running somewhere. It is still a continuous process, and rather it could be a way of thinking. Yeah, we always think, every day we think about how better to rule a country, do it with a smaller resource, but better, let's say so.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U113	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. When the administrative-territorial reform was completed, it was said that a study or analysis would be carried out on better access to and the situation of social services. Now, if I, as a human being, dismantle this bill, hoping that I can figure it out, and read the topic 'A country for the needs of people', then I'm not gonna get it out of here. It's all very nice what's written here, but it doesn't change anything for a normal person. The question I have is that you also have the coordination of the NGOs, from the Estonian Association of Municipalities and Cities and from the Estonian Employers' Confederation. Was there no one else? Didn't people know, or didn't you ask anyone else? This is also the question of whether such a study has been carried out and where it can be consulted.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U114	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U115	Thank you for your question. As I said, we are talking here about services in general terms, not just social services, but all public services, about how we shape them better. When we talk about the social sphere, as I said, sectoral policies are a bit of the content of the second document. This is 'Estonia 2035', where we look inside the fields. Unfortunately, I do not know the details of this study, perhaps I should ask the Minister for Social Affairs how far this study has come. I know more about local governments and the development of services in local governments. But, as I said, the subject matter documents are different. We are talking here about the draft decision on the implementation of the reform of the state, which talks about the principles, directions, actions of government and government, without saying what we are doing in this area. It speaks of general directions and principles for managing the state in different areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U116	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U117	Thank you. Dear Minister, There are very general points and very specific points. But I would like to ask you about a point like 24 where you have proposed that the fulfilment of public tasks be decentralised by giving local authorities the right tasks from central authority level, with the funding needed to carry them out. Very much discussed, very good thing I think, I fully agree with you here. But what are these specific things now? Surely you have a clear vision that really big things we will soon hand over from central authority level to local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U118	Thanks for the question, Siim. I guess we were just discussing these things here, including you. The money for the management of waste management we got from the revenue base put there, right, it's not in the fund anymore. But I guess there are. After all, the substitute home service used to be a public service, paid through rural governments, and now it's actually in the support fund. Normally, these tasks are performed in such a way that, first, the task funding goes to the grant fund, is divided by a certain formula that is agreed so that it reaches each municipality on the basis of this sector-specific formula. But one of you and one of you has gone to the income base. There are quite a few issues currently under discussion. I do not know if we will come to these decisions, but neither is the position of the Union of Cities and Municipalities, for example, consistent. We're talking about side roads in the country. It is quite seriously that analyses have been carried out on the state's side roads, what kind of repairs they need, and whether and how we can deliver them. But these discussions will continue. There has been talk about social services, about certain other things. Of course, there has been talk about education. This office's point of discussion is currently in preparation, perhaps waiting for a discussion in the cabinet, whether we can move forward and how we can do so. Decentralisation: what could be the tasks of the local government and where could their responsibility be even greater? For example, one issue that I also raised: what responsibility the state and local governments have for HEV schools. There is now a mixed model, a state like the one giving over, and funding is also a mixed model. Can we not come to some sort of solution here that there is a delineation that remains for the state and that perhaps goes from regional to local government joint work, for example, in the county? These are very topical issues. I'm still trying, yeah. We know that these processes are not simple. After all, they also concern the sectoral ministries, which in fact these tasks go from institutions, agencies, ministries to them, but I promise to try as much as I can in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U119	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My concern is, in fact, that there are too few State Reform SAs in this bill, contrary to what you have referred to, and, let's just say, Jüri Raidla. I can refer directly to the fact that the National Reform Support Group met with Mr Jüri Raidla last week. We had a very constructive and practical and practically consensual understanding of how and how to proceed. But in this document all of this is very, very, very little. I say once again that we have so widened it that we will even come to solving the problems of housing in the course of public reform. Of course, this is a humanly very important subject, a very important one, but if it is also part of the state reform, then, come on, we are not getting anywhere. My proposal once again is to focus to a significant extent. If these constitutional institutions are such a red towel, then you don't have to touch them, we'll put them aside. But you could tighten up a lot. And when you say "enhancing" is a concept, I say "enhancing" is a principle. I am still looking forward to the concept of reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U120	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U121	Well, then we can play with words: an efficient state, not a more efficient one, isn't it? Well, he is, he is also described here after all: a sustainable effective state. But as for the fact that it's general or specific, yes, I've been arguing about it with George for a long time. When you look at the State Reform SA, they prepared a draft decision, an explanatory statement, everything. They had become very specific in many matters specifically concerning constitutional institutions, and this interest seemed to be more that way, like some figures thrown into the air about reducing the number of members of the Riigikogu, etc. But we didn't really want to cover this side of the draft decision. This is perhaps, as I said, the place of the Riigikogu dispute. As regards how concrete this draft must be and how concrete the action plan is, I also asked the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to take away the action plan, to every point, to do so, and these same actions will ultimately lead to the achievement of the objective that you asked for. It's an efficient, better country.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U122	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U123	Good President! Good minister! At the same time as we are talking about state reform, there is actually a state reform or major changes. I am thinking of the creation of new agencies, as is the assembly of the Environmental Inspectorate and the Environmental Board. On Thursday, we are discussing the emergence of a giant Education Office right here. It would certainly be easier to unite the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Culture than to set up this huge Department of Education. Dispel my fear that these great agencies will become so powerful that the Minister will rather have a duty of representation to open something, to close something. Aren't we going the wrong way here, concentrating our jobs too big with too much money and too much power?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U124	Thank you! A very important issue in this same process when we are talking about consolidation of institutions and agencies in the areas, i.e. under certain ministries. Without going into the very details, let me say that they are all slightly different, these consolidations that are larger in volume, which are smaller in volume. The problem of the Ministry of Education and Research, as well as of many agencies and agencies, has also been a little bit about the distribution of money, i.e. the expansion of the mechanism that distributes money. However, unfortunately, policy-making has often been involved in this, which I do not agree with. Policy-making must be within the Ministry and there must be a clear distinction. The agencies and bodies shall implement policies. Yes, they help policy makers, of course, with their knowledge, data, background and proposals, but the Ministry is the place where the competence for policy-making must be held. I think these borders are a little blurry, they've shifted here and there because the administration of ministries has expanded foundations, institutions, centres. I think that this is, in any case, much clearer, and yet I believe that it will also help to save resources. If we set aside another example, such as the Environmental Inspectorate and the Environmental Board, it has also been said here that we barely save a lot of resources there. But why do such suggestions describe these changes? Because there is, in fact, a serious revision of these areas. This is not a 1 + 1 operation, but we are looking at which functions and tasks are duplicated, which can be done better. There is no need to do about the same thing in different institutions, not to mention any supporting functions that need to be consolidated anyway. For example, an application service that has already reached almost entirely the State Support Services Centre. The implementation service means the implementation of European money as well as national programmes, the organisation of competitions, the processing of projects, the processing of reporting. It's at the State Support Services Center, it's totally okay. That's what we're gonna do to raise this competence. Sectoral goals are still written down by the Ministry, where money is distributed, for what purpose, but all technical editing must be in one place, then it is stable, it is, say, equal in quality, and there are no problems that have often occurred in administrative areas, even in these foundations, agencies, agencies, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U125	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U126	Thank you. I will stick to the fact that improving the efficiency of the country must be hygiene, not some kind of hussy-named state reform. The Estonian state has not failed, nor has it spread out in any way. This is also demonstrated by the focus of this henchmen, as you say, on some constitutional institutions all the time. If you look at the country as a whole, you could even think about the volume of the budget, where this room for improvement is, where the real money is, etc., you don't need to stare at your belly button all the time and then talk about it as a big reform. But I have a single question about the election. It sounded really ugly when you said you'd see that Rein or Peter or who it was, right, said you could put it in here to change the circles, and then you put it in. It has a political classic name, it is a gerrymandering, because changing circles for the next elections is in any case manipulation and unreliable. Are you seriously thinking that you're going to redefine the areas where the ambassadors are already working?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U127	Yes, I have answered that question today. It was considered, and it wasn't just written in here on anyone's proposal. All these proposals were considered and it was found that this issue of highly unequal electoral circles could be resolved in some way. It's sounded from different interest groups, it doesn't just come from inside the government. But like I said, I wouldn't want to be a writer here. If the Riigikogu considers that they do not need to be changed and they are perfectly okay in their current form... I don't know, all the experts have estimated that this is a bit of a problem. But it's yours to appreciate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U128	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U129	Good minister! Of course, the reform of the state is very important. At the same time, I had a question when I read the documents you offered to the Riigikogu. Is the role of the Riigikogu or the role of the government still more important to you? At the beginning, you say that there is a need to give more of a role to Parliament, while we are talking about strategic documents, you are referring to the government. In this Chamber, you have repeatedly mentioned a strategy paper entitled 'Estonia 2035'. That's what I have questions about. If we are only talking about this document, it really was a point at the beginning, as if the government were confirming it. Now you are saying that it could be voted through in the Riigikogu Hall. At the same time, it is only the hat of this document, because this whole body is these development plans and it is as if Parliament does not have to approve them, because they are being completed in ministries. My understanding is that if you really want to place emphasis on the Riigikogu, let us also vote through development plans for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U130	Thank you for your question. The role of the Riigikogu in discussions on sectoral policies is possible in very different ways. As far as these development plans are concerned, I said that there were 45 government-level development plans a few years ago, now there are 18, but these are government-level development plans that have not been discussed in the Riigikogu. Your question may have to do with the fundamentals of certain areas that have been addressed in the Riigikogu. This proposal is now such that the role of the Riigikogu would certainly be to enable the Riigikogu to also supervise the executive power. I know that we have an agreement that has not yet entered into the actual documents that every minister (I have heard it from the proposals of the Riigikogu) will go to the Riigikogu at least once a year throughout his administration [with an overview], report, listen to suggestions and questions, answer them. As I said, there is a clear decision about this strategy 'Estonia 2035' that the Riigikogu must discuss it and the Riigikogu must make the relevant decisions. I'm sure there's a lot of work ahead of it. It is not 'Estonia 2035' that will be written on the knee. This is what the current process, which involves very wide-ranging regions and interest groups, can provide input from different representatives, is being dragged by the government and brings this process to your table. This is the vision of Estonia's future in various areas. It spells out in many ways the content of the development plans in the fields that are subsequently adopted by the government, plus those of the government in turn that are in the development plans of the ministries somewhere. So that's the hierarchy. "Estonia 2035" is a policy and development policy in various areas and is the basis for more detailed documents in the government. You will give these directions and principles.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U131	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U132	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We have always looked to the north at the time of Estonia's independence. There has been a greater autonomy of local authorities and is still greater. If you are talking about increasing the autonomy of local authorities with possible changes in the environmental field, in the social sphere, I will ask a slightly more precise question. Of course, it is important to us that there is harmonious development between regions across Estonia. But how does the same plan or idea of state reform really ensure regional harmonisation or more harmonious development, so that everyone has the motivation and the ability to achieve the result as you describe here ideally?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U133	Thank you. This is certainly an up-to-date issue, too, because there has been an administrative reform, rather, an administrative territorial reform of local authorities (we are trying to remain precise in terms of terms). We can draw the first conclusions from this, but I will not discuss the details for a very long time. Yes, it seems that municipalities are more capable, as shown by analyses and studies. Regional cooperation is one area where more tasks can be assigned to municipalities. This cooperation model... We will, for example, be discussing in the Expert Group on the Local Government Organisation Act tomorrow whether we should not provide additional models for this cooperation or additional commitments for cooperation in the region or region. There will be regional administration on the side, which concerns the state apparatus. We know that the different areas work practically in the regions, but these regions are often different, i.e. one agency or institution has one region, another agency or body has other regions. We are going to discuss this matter in the near future. That is my task, I should take it to the office, in parallel with the topic of cooperation between municipalities at regional or regional level. This study has also been carried out under the leadership of Harjumaa Municipalities Association, including the Association of Cities and Municipalities and the Ministry of Finance. These proposals exist, which we need to discuss and perhaps take some ideas from there on how to develop this cooperation between regional and local authorities better. The aim is to ensure that all municipalities are able to offer these services as evenly and as well as effectively as possible, either by themselves or by carrying out certain tasks in cooperation with the region or the county.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U134	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U135	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I also read this piece in the support group. You had a lot of talk about state houses there. Why don't you tell me what these things are? Part's in progress, part's being built.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U136	Thank you for your question. It's a professional activity that I do all the time. After all, it has been decided some time ago that the offices of the various institutions and agencies in the counties, which, unfortunately or fortunately, have remained there, not just real estate or physical establishment, but also substantive cooperation should be better in order for the person, undertaking or local authority who carries out the work there to understand the state more clearly about communication with the state. It is proposed to do so by public buildings. Sounds so proud to have a new state house built in every county. It doesn't work that way. These programs are prepared, most counties have two houses, one is the so-called Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Rural Affairs house and the other is the house of other institutions. I think that's what happens in most counties. But in the near future, in the office, we'll discuss certain matters in certain counties. There's not exactly one solution. We also thought we could beat every county like this, bang, bang, bang with a common model. You can't really because these institutions are different in the counties, the regional centres are a little different again, so you need more space in purely real estate. In general, it is a renovation of existing rural government houses or buildings owned by public authorities, making them more functional, and we are still trying to be a joint service counter. So if a person shows up physically, we're proud of our e-state, but not everyone is able to use it, then he gets a quick solution, gets his things done with the state, there's an information worker who can help him. So anyway, how do I say, I'm looking more at the content side, so some people just want to look at it really, really, really, really, but that's not the way it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U137	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U138	Minister, thank you very much. I'm trying to understand you. You said that this basic document, the main strategy, is up and under it are development plans that are not subject to vote in Parliament. Where are the documents on the fundamentals, which are confirmed by Parliament? What is more important, the documents of Estonian strategy or fundamentals? That was the continuation of the previous question. The second question is very specific. Of course, the reform of the state begins with a state apparatus. What is your personal opinion on how many ministers should be in the Estonian government? Can't we see a way to save it? And also: do some committees at Parliament level not duplicate each other?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U139	Thank you for your question. I do not want to comment in any way on Parliament's case; you still have to comment on it yourself. This is legislative power, I represent executive power. How Parliament's work is organised, this is a question for you. I don't think the executive here is gonna have to write you anything, or even a lot to suggest, you're gonna have to decide for yourself how best it is. It has sounded, yes, in Jüri Raidla and many other proposals, so that there could be, in Parliament, how to say, more power and knowledge. Perhaps we need to think about the resource that serves MEPs, committees, etc. in Parliament, so that this work can be done in a truly meaningful and competent manner. I think it's my personal opinion that you should think about it. As far as the strategy plan is concerned, foreign policy discussions are still taking place before you, etc.; these topics will continue to be addressed in the Riigikogu. The things I'm talking about are government-level development plans, they've always been on government level. Now the question is whether or not the fundamentals of a particular area will also come to the Riigikogu. As far as I know, it's undecided. If anyone wants to come from the ministers and discuss it, yes, but surely every minister comes once a year, talks about all the content of his administration, and then you can discuss what has not been so far. This is also an increase in the role of the Riigikogu or the level of information. You can make inquiries, you can question in Question Time, but a comprehensive sector debate once a year, I think, is completely reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U140	Toomas Kivimägi, as far as I know, you have two procedural questions and two substantive questions asked. Another procedure? Please, Toomas Kivimägi, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U141	As far as I know, the number of procedural questions is not limited.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U142	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U143	I was just checking the manager's attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U144	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U145	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I am of the opinion that state buildings should not be rushed at the moment. We had two months of quarantine, and I think there have been some major changes in people's needs, organisation and all of this. If we look at the draft written in January and this draft, we will see that these two months have taught us quite a lot. Very many older people have received an ID card, PIN codes, they have learned a lot of new things, and I think that the real need for half of the services may disappear. Perhaps during the summer it would be good to analyse how much [need] it is and what the population's readiness is. Otherwise, we're gonna make a mechanism that we're gonna take the blind grandmother back to the movies.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U146	Thank you for your question. I'm sure it's topical. We have discussed with officials in our ministry that this was a good teleworking lesson for everyone. A lot of how we say, an institution, an office, or even a ministry middle-level head tended to be suspicious before that maybe I still can't trust a person to do a job somewhere far away or to work at home. In fact, already before that, one such process began and we have also made a decision in the cabinet that, if possible, all state agencies and agencies, ministries, even state foundations and companies (such letter I have also sent to ministers representing the duties of the owner in these companies and foundations) would recruit workers across Estonia, not in Tallinn or Tartu, but across Estonia. A lot of these jobs have been created. This vision was such and it is still being asked that there could be some functional jobs in the state house, given the secure data exchange, etc., where officials who work remotely could work. But certainly the role of ordinary, classical, over-the- Internet teleworking is increasing more and more. We need to think seriously about how to promote it, where cybersecurity, security requirements, databases are important. All of this has to be worked out, but I think it has taught us a very good lesson that much more flexibility can be done both in the private sector and in the public sector. It is not just a matter of the public sector; it is also more flexible in the private sector. Hats off in front of these people or the whole thing that happened from the bad, right, the virus, but in my administration, I don't want to say I got a piece of land done better, but there's nothing left to stick, it's all going well. Maybe even, it seems to me, people can use their time more effectively. There are several pluses left: reconciling work and family life, less driving between work and home, whatever. This is an interesting trend and it should certainly be looked at and analysed in greater detail. The Chancellors of the Ministries raised this issue and everyone was very positive about the fact that it taught a very good distance work lesson, that it is really possible to do public work in many ways as teleworking, that is, a person is freer in his choices, he can live in different places. For example, we were talking here about the removal of state-paid jobs, which I have often been accused of, but this is, to a certain extent, a regional policy measure, and this is a measure to meet a person. These places, such as Türi Social Insurance Department or EAS Department in Pärnu, or one part of the Social Insurance Board in Pärnu, formed by the over-estontic recruitment, came in perfectly logically because people were found who would like to work there, who would like to live in Pärnu and work there, would like to live in Türi, this area, and they can do state work, they have this opportunity, they do not have to live in Tallinn to do state work. In this direction, however, we can develop strongly to give people in different regions the opportunity to also be on public wages, to do the state's work, which may be required by their education, their experience, perhaps also their willingness to serve the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U147	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, We are talking here about the reform of the state, and we are also talking about the fundamentals of the sector. I am sure that if the state reform as such should come, it should certainly help to implement its fundamentals in the areas, and it is very important to improve cooperation between the areas and so-called the cooperation of these silo towers. Consider a simple example. For example, there is a great problem in Estonia with the mobility of children and the resulting obesity. This concerns a number of areas: social, cultural, educational. This is the question of how the reform of the state in your vision should bring these areas closer to the current one.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U148	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U149	Thank you for your question. One thing is that when there were 45 government-level development plans, they were very fragmented. Now there's an agreement that there's 18. Most of them are, for example, language development plans, Estonian language development plans, they cover several areas, several ministries. As far as I know, there is also a mobility development plan, which is being prepared in the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Education, perhaps in another ministry. But I owe you a detailed answer. So we are moving in the direction that such problems or issues (for example, you are talking about children's mobility) which concern a number of areas, including the Ministry of Social Affairs, would be jointly thought out in the fields and that there would be concrete action behind the development plans so that it would not remain a blank document. I think that if the number of these documents has fallen, they are cross-cutting, they will work better. If there are many of them and they are fragmented and there are several of them in each area, they often do not work.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U150	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U151	Thank you, Minister. The Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice did not express its opinion. The Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities and the Estonian Employers' Confederation expressed their opinion, which are here in the annex, where there are the co-ordinations of the NGOs. In particular, I am interested in the proposal by the Confederation of Employers or the thematic statement No 1, which also concerns the recommendations of the employer's manifesto to reduce the number of employees in the public sector. The government aims to keep the share of officials in employment at the same level. This table states: 'Let's be noted.' What does it really mean, what's the government's plan or idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U152	Thank you for your question. If I were talking about the whole public service and the public sector, I wouldn't be finishing up until tomorrow morning, all the numbers and who it is. But it's not like there's teachers, cops, two big hospitals in the public sector. In one government, it must have been the time to report to hospitals how many maintenance workers they had to let go. We certainly don't want to get to that. Rather, as I said in the consolidation of the agencies, it is a substantive review. But in the course of this review, it may appear that we have too little coverage of a subject or area. I can't say it goes under a rock. Yes, the private sector and the public sector are always competing for a number of things, for example, for the labour force, if we ever reach wages and these issues. I think that there must be plenty of officials, while all these modern opportunities, consolidation of support services, we have practically one accounting left in the country, it is in one centre, and in the old days, each institution had its own accounts, of course, reduced the number of jobs. I'm sure it's going to go down a little bit more, but in the same health care or somewhere else, you might need more. So I don't take it one-way and so straight-cut that we cut off half of everyone and then we're all happy. I think the crisis taught us that we still need to think through the theory of this thin country. If we want a very thin country, maybe we're in some kind of trouble. I think we must also draw these conclusions, what the crisis has taught us, these summaries and analyses. But as far as the typical official body is concerned, yes, the number of these employees will fall by about 500 each year. Everyone's talking about hundreds of thousands. There are 8,000 officials from the national authorities and ministries. There were 10,000 more years ago, now it's 8,000. There's a border somewhere. As I said, we have often given out of the ministry policy making somewhere and we have lost competence in the ministry. This, too, must be assessed in substance. I'm not saying it's just and everywhere in every institution and ministry, some kind of calculation that we're just gonna take down so many percent. That's usually what they've tried to do, but let's try to be more substantive. Maybe there are people missing somewhere. But the general number, I think, is decreasing. The 12% that has been taken into account as the number of public sectors excluded from the rest of the sector, the constitutional institutions and the same hospitals, is 116000, that is 12%. It has once been set as a goal that we will not grow it. On the one hand, the number of employees in a sector may increase (policemen, teachers, rescuers, health workers), but the number of officials is likely to decrease. This today's opportunities simply allow us to actually save in many places. But this 12% is taken compared to the working age population, not the population. Why is it compared to the working age population? Unfortunately, the demographic trend is downward. Over the last few years, the balance of migration has been positive and, as far as I am aware, the number of people of working age has not decreased significantly, but it has fallen quite strongly in previous years. The state should be able to cope with approximately comparable costs. If we look at the size of the working-age population, the state should also orientate according to the fact that it is not too big compared to it. It has to be monitored. But yes, there's a wish that we take half off, take 10% off, cut 20% off. I don't know how to answer it, there's a change in need, there's a need for more, and there's a way to reduce it. It's not a simple arithmetical equation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U153	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U154	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In the previous composition of the Riigikogu, all the discussions concerning making the state better, whether its name is reform or whatever, were active. There was a separate subcommittee in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, there was a separate committee. Now, really, for a year, this whole area has been somehow in silence, and this debate has not been very much in this Chamber. Is the idea of this bill submitted by your government such that, through the flowers of the Riigikogu, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as a suggestion that ahoy, it is time to start working?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U155	Thank you, Ivar, for this question. Yes, the previous parliamentary assembly was very active on this issue. As we know, and as you yourself mentioned, under the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, there was a small group formed in itself and there was also a committee of problems. I certainly recognise that this issue has been discussed quite thoroughly and for quite a long time. It reached a decision on the fundamentals, which are actually very good [the foundations] and which all experts praise. But, let's say, what's the matter with this decision, we've come to the next thing, or we've tried to describe these directions and actions. They still change in time. There are some basics that I think are absolutely right. It has been asked here what will happen to this legal matter now that if we take this decision, the previous decision will be void. I am not a lawyer, I think this decision is based on these fundamentals, and I see no reason that this previous decision should be revoked. They do not contradict each other in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U156	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U157	We have heard from several members of the opposition about the concern about the decrease in the role of the Riigikogu. Indeed, I share that concern. However, I do not think this can be taken seriously, because today's opposition has been precisely in the governments that have reduced this role. For example, even these development plans, in 2014, if I am not mistaken, during the Ansip government, the role of the Riigikogu here was made only indicative and advisory; the Riigikogu no longer endorses them. But today I read in this bill that the Riigikogu decides and sets long-term strategic goals for Estonia and reduces the number of development documents to be confirmed at the level of the Riigikogu and government. This trend is very positive. But why don't you explain to the opposition the difference between what are the lines of state reform that really provide these directions, as they say, and the objectives, and on which concrete action plans are based? They're accusing us of a lack of specificity. Why don't you explain the difference between the course of action and the action plan so that our colleagues can still understand it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U158	Thank you for your question. I've tried to explain it quite a few times. I realize there's always this view of how specific a document has to be. I also tried to explain it in comparison with the previous Riigikogu decision, where the fundamentals are and where there has been talk of a very general approach to the reform of the state. Very good fundamentals in themselves, I very much approve of what was done by the previous Riigikogu. We have tried to describe more specifically in this document these directions, which are based on the National Reform Action Plan, and these are specific actions. But once again, this action plan is not stoned and final. If there are new directions, new proposals, we can discuss this for the action plan. This is why we brought it before the Riigikogu, not to get a rubber stamp from here, believe me. We want a substantive debate. As decided by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, there is enough time and then you will decide whether, in this form, supplemented or amended form, such a basis or guideline is suitable or not, and the government will draw its own conclusions. Once this has been completed, we will certainly be ready to complement the action plan. As it sounded today, if you try to go into sectoral policy, it is not really this document. It simply describes governance and government and how it can be done better. He's like a little bit above it, but we often tend to land again somewhere in our sectoral policy. We are trying to look at how a state apparatus can function well, from constitutional institutions, government, agencies, agencies, local authorities, etc. Once these general directions are in place, it will enable the government to act and complete its agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U159	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I now request Paul Puustusmaa, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U160	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to thank the Minister for his presentation and for answering questions. They certainly provided a number of answers that would otherwise not tempt everyone and give peace. I will try to be here before you to shed light on what happened in the draft decision on state reform in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. First of all, I am delighted that we have it on this table because we do not have many alternatives: either we have it or we do not have it. I mean, the fact that we have something is really good in itself, and it's really good to start here. Here we must support and say that the Minister was so right when he said that in many ways it is up to us, because nothing has been put in place in detail, so that nothing can be changed. We can do anything. I guess this is a little political struggle, and this fight also started in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and quite with relief. I'm gonna get there, to those moments. I certainly want to emphasise once again, of course, what the Minister said earlier here, that indeed, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we gave an extended deadline for amendments precisely on this very principle, so that we can get as much feedback as possible from all our dear colleagues, political groups, committees. Of course, I would like to thank Mr Kariladi specifically for setting up this support group, which already showed very strong efficiency at his first meeting. I think we'll have another meeting tomorrow. So we have now developed this way that, on the one hand, we have some kind of foundation created, without which we would have nothing at all, and next to it there is a Committee on Constitutional Affairs that deals with it. We have not, unlike the previous composition, set up a separate committee under the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but, yes, we have a state reform support group that works very effectively, just because, as I said, there were different political forces together. The first session already showed constructiveness. But I'm going to see what happened in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. As I said, there was a very heated debate. I could even say that in some ways this debate was sharper than what was in this Chamber. I would also like to point out specifically that, you see, the concept of state reform must also perhaps be understood at the right end. We have three pages of this decision, but he could in principle also be one or two pages, depending on how closely we write down the most important guidelines. Assuming it should be extremely accurate, with a specific beginning and end day, it cannot be done. You see, the state is as it is in the legend with the city of Tallinn: it is not quite finished. After all, we have taken such a clear course that we obviously cannot cope with mere fine - tuning. We need to develop, we need to go further, we need to go deeper. If we see something wrong, we have to adjust the foundation. Just as the officials said in their proposals for this draft decision: they expect these guidelines, they expect the instructions that the Riigikogu would give, it would be like a strong skeleton on which you can draw more meat. As the Minister recalled here, we have the strategy 'Estonia 2035', this is one such place. Of course, this decision has already taken into account the views of the political groups on the development of the state in general, here the proposals of the State Reform Foundation have been taken into account. True, they are not final. As I said, indeed, we can change everything, everything is in our hands. And we have time to do it. But I will now go to the Commission's decision and to the Commission's meetings. As I said, we had two sessions: 4 May and 11 May. The meetings of the Commission itself were quite sharp and impressive. The committee was chaired by me. Kalle Grünthal, Kaja Kallas, Siim Kiisler, Andrei Korobeinik, Lauri Läänemets, Hanno Pevkur, Martin Repinski and Taavi Kõivas were present. The Minister was also present, of course, and there were representatives of the Ministry. Twice this was discussed, especially so that this matter could be pushed into motion. The first debate took so long that we simply did not get through everything. Then the ensuing discussions came, and in these subsequent discussions this relief also came out. In fact, the opposition was absolutely convinced that we should not start this way with the reform of the state, as was the case in this Chamber. We should still set up a committee, we should start from scratch as a whole and develop state reform by the Riigikogu through special committees or some kind of subcommittee. As I said, it seemed to me that the kind of passage that has a text prepared by the government to get away is not bad at all, because there are no bad moments here. The argument that this is too slogand, I cannot agree. Actually, what's in here? Here is how we can, in principle, make the work of local government and government more effective. Here is the nuance of how people can be more involved. Here is the nuance of how we can reduce bureaucracy, how we can reduce political cementation, how we can make the country more effective and cheaper. These principles are set out here. At the same time, of course, it must be said that the National Audit Office also had reproaches here. A good colleague, Toomas Kivimägi, has also referred to them. In the opinion of the National Audit Office, this was too little specificity. The National Audit Office had the claim that the Riigikogu is an arena of the most important issues of state life; the National Audit Office considers that the Riigikogu should first discuss the scope and objectives of the state reform that it wants to achieve and agree on what is essential for the Riigikogu for reform. The Riigikogu could highlight more ambition and specificity in this document. This is one of the possible approaches and can be considered. What else did the National Audit Office say? In the opinion of the National Audit Office, the lack of a draft is that there are also some principles, general objectives and specific measures. The inherent problem with the draft is that the necessity of state reform is not quite clear. Since such specific choices have not been made and ambitious targets have not been set, these shortcomings exist. Again, we have these opportunities. In the opinion of the National Audit Office, the opportunity offered by the COVID-19 pandemic should not be wasted, namely the need to reduce red tape, the need to reduce administrative burdens and the possibility of saving the state's costs. You shouldn't stop halfway there. The reform of local government, which should result in municipalities becoming more capable, needs to move forward. More robust guidelines are needed on how executive power should address the problem of regional inequality. Clear and stable public finance rules are essential for sustainable public administration. All these issues could be addressed in the framework of this reform. Again, it's possible. There may be a danger that we're going to be too subtle in our approach, but again, these opportunities are in our own hands. The National Audit Office also stressed that, in principle, this document should have resolved which country we want, i.e. which type of country we want to develop and which direction we want to move towards. That's pretty much what I said. The National Audit Office also referred to the fact that the Development Monitoring Centre has carried out a number of studies on the issues of our country's development strategy, it has proposed five options from which we should choose one or some sort of symbiosis. That was the suggestion. Let's consider. In response, the Minister said that these principles, which are set out in the draft, are the positions of the government coalition, but that everyone can complement and amend these proposals. He stressed the issue of the consolidation of public authorities and also said that a coordination body had been set up in connection with the reform of the state, consisting of the Chancellors of all ministries and providing assistance and support, on the one hand, for the implementation of the state reform and, on the other, for the provision of additional data. Hanno Pevkur found that when we talk about state reform, the draft is very less ambitious. He said that the draft did not set out the temporal perspective and he felt that the draft should be discarded at all and that there should first be a philosophical debate in the Riigikogu on which country we would like to have in the future. Pevkur proposed to leave the draft at all, to take into account the lessons learned from the crisis and to make one proper draft decision initiated by the Riigikogu itself, not to include the draft decision initiated by the Government of the Republic. Once again, I stress that, as you can see, there is already a level of political struggle here, but my iron conviction is that if we start from scratch, it is not what will help us move forward at least effectively. According to Taavi Rõivas, the draft does not have a vision of how to make Estonia better. The objective is not formulated in a concrete and understandable way and there is no ambition. In that sense, Taavi repeated Hanno's words. Past reforms, which deserve the name of the reform, gave an example of work capacity reform or administrative reform, so narrowly. He also pointed out that the world has changed a great deal, which presents many challenges to Estonian society, starting with how to change the organisation of future crisis management, ending with how to be better prepared for work at home and for e-learning. According to him, and in his view, the draft is not a state reform at all. As you can see, that's the kind of war we had there. Ultimately, after we had discussed this, however, we found that this could go on. As I began today's speech, I am still glad that we can go on with this. If we didn't go on with this, if we didn't start with this, we wouldn't have anything to start with. There were two consensual decisions. First, that I should be the rapporteur, and second, that the deadline for submitting amendments should be set at 14 September inclusive. The other decisions concerning the inclusion on the agenda and the proposal to terminate the first reading were taken by a majority of 5 votes: 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U161	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. I will open the negotiations of the political groups. Mr Kiisler on behalf of the Isamaa Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U162	Honourable Vice President! I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U163	5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U164	Honourable Riigikogu! First of all, I would like to say a few words about the debate that took place at the beginning of the debate on this point, to which Mr Puustusmaa, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, also referred. I do not agree in any way with those members of the Riigikogu who think that the government cannot offer us its drafts, which we can discuss and make fit for ourselves. We could be grateful when the government makes proposals, especially in view of the fact that, lately, not all the votes in this Riigikogu have always gone as high-quality as we would have liked. It is important not to be so superior to outside counsel, to listen and take into account what suits us. All the more so as the Minister for Public Administration will certainly have very good experts working under the authority of the Minister for Public Administration, who will be able to record their thoughts clearly. It can also be seen and felt from the smooth wording of this text. Now, if you go to the content of this document, there are certainly a number of very good ideas here. But I agree and the Isamaa Group agrees in many respects with the criticism and appeal of the National Audit Office to greater ambition and specificity. Let me give you some examples. The very positive, concrete and clear positions are, for example, in point 10, which states that laws regulate only the most important, general and permanent issues, and that legislation continues to deregulate according to the fundamentals of legal policy. Clear direction, understood. Or point 19: The bureaucratic procedures are implemented as little as possible. Very good, all praiseworthy and clear. Or point 24: Decentralise public tasks by transferring the local authorities from central authority to the appropriate tasks, together with the funding needed to carry them out. Again, a clear and sensible direction that could be supported. At the same time, these good clear messages are hidden between such, I'd say, unnecessary talk. When it is described that the Riigikogu is the arena for the discussion of the most important issues of state life and takes the most important decisions and supervises executive power, it sounds beautiful, of course, but it takes away the focus, takes away the relief and clear message from this document. There is also a weak wording, for example in paragraph 15, which states that the possibilities of privatisation of state companies operating in market competition are being considered. Let's be brave! If there is a desire to privatise companies, then let us say that we want to privatise, otherwise this document does not have the same or the opposite value or content. There are also somewhat controversial places. I would like to give an example here of point 5, which says that fragmentation in strategic planning will be reduced and cross-cutting priorities set. At the same time, point 23 states that the activities of the agencies will be coordinated by means of regional action plans. Fragmentation will be reduced in the same way, but regional action plans will be wanted in the other way. The desire of counties and regions to give more power to regional action plans is understandable; this has traditionally been the case. But once again, not everyone likes it, you should make clearer choices and keep a clearer focus. Although the Minister of Public Administration said that this is not a description of the problems in the field, there have been such expressions as'resolving people's housing problems'. This is an example of completely inappropriate wording in this text. What does this have to do with state reform? None. But obviously someone really wanted to see a sentence like that here, and then it was written in. I hope we have the courage to take such sentences out of here. Perhaps the best characteristic of this trend is the comparison of the Riigikogu's decision made last year with the Riigikogu's decision on the fundamentals of state reform and good administration. Although the Minister for Public Administration has nicely pointed out that this is a continuation of the previous decision, let us see how the restructuring of the government sector has been described. Last year's decision states that the work of the government sector will be reorganized in such a way that the problems will be solved quickly and that unnecessary activities and unnecessary administrative burdens will be abandoned. Good, simple, clear message. This draft contains a sentence that begins in the same way: 'The government sector is reorganized in such a way that the functioning of public authorities and local authorities supports the holistic development of society and productivity growth. ' I think everyone can see from this comparison which way we are going with this text. In the opinion of the Isamaa Group, this is not a good way to move. Let's keep it concrete, focus and relief! In conclusion, I would like to say that not everyone can like this document. If we are to give him real content, we must make clear choices and have the courage to decide. Jaak Aab here repeatedly stressed flexibility. I am convinced that Jaak Aab himself is also very flexible, cooperates well with the Riigikogu and gives us both our expertise and the expertise of our subordinates, so that we can form this document into a clear, strong and good quality decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U165	Thank you. Ivari Padar on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U166	Ladies and gentlemen, As has already been said, this debate on state reform was worse in the previous Riigikogu. There were also reasons for this, even the same administrative reform and the timetable for administrative reform that put some pressure on it. I was then also the chairman of the State Reform Problem Committee, and the next chairman of the State Reform Problem Committee was Tanel Talve, who has also made his assessment of the draft that we are discussing today and does not understand the difference between the draft decision of the Riigikogu adopted in 2019, where the fundamentals were, and today's draft. Perhaps it is expected that, since the difference in substance is not seen in some detail, Mr Minister also spoke of these details, it would indeed have been a reasonable course of action for the new Constitutional Committee to take the aim of further developing the fundamental principles. It is now that the government has proposed, and it is as if it can be said that it is putting a little pressure on the Riigikogu so that it can deal better with matters such as the state and its organisation. That's right. In any case, it is clear that this debate has begun and must be held. Here, too, before colleagues spoke about what the definition of state reform is. It is an extremely complex subject and is a heading which color is love. At all, the word'reform', it sounds in the context of Estonian affairs and Estonian politics, so that we have major changes, the name of which, you can say, is reform, it is land reform, property reform, agricultural reform or work capacity reform. In fact, it is still the case that the continuation of a good state is a continuous process. Whether his name should be reform or not is such a thing of taste. The promotion of the state, I believe, we all understand in the same way that efforts must be made to achieve this. I certainly believe that the role of the Riigikogu in this whole debate must be much greater. Unfortunately, it has always been the case that there are very many members of the Riigikogu who really do not have much interest in it. That's the way it is. So, yes, on this draft today, it must be said that it is very difficult to see what is the difference between the fundamentals of the state reform that has been adopted here. The criticism of this draft by the National Audit Office has been discussed here on several occasions. How to move on to the subject, I have a suggestion about that. At the time, when the previous composition discussed the circumstances of the administrative reform, we also fixed the questions that we did not have very clear answers to at the time, such as how the administrative reform took place, how the rural governments would be eradicated, what problems would arise. Now has some time gone by, and I strongly recommend that we take these old protocols and look at what we have left behind at the time, which we need to find a solution for and which was then resolved, even in the case of state reform and more horizontal cooperation between ministries. It was then that the five ministries went to a house together to get better final synergy through horizontal cooperation. In the context of the administrative reform, it is certainly the fact that this document also contains what concerns the rights and financial autonomy of local governments. A year from now, it'll be... Three more minutes, yes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U167	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U168	... local government elections. In fact, everyone who has thought in depth about the administrative reform that took place, how at times administratively-territorially it was rational, and at times it was irrational, could still discuss in the Riigikogu in the context of the next local elections, which are the problems that we could solve and where we could give a signal to local authorities that after the next elections there is one or another emphasis in a different way, financing and financial autonomy in a different way. I would like to hope that, where deeply disproportionate authorities have arisen, we not with the next elections, but in the run-up to the next elections, we can get these borders changed by some logic. So we're gonna have to work on this thing. Good luck to all of us! We are trying to make the country more sensible, and we also have certain institutions in it, but I have not quite understood the logic of what is happening now around the border guard and the police, where additional posts are being created. I am not satisfied in this context when we are talking about a sensible and transparent country, about what has happened even in the Council of the Rural Promotion Foundation, from which farmers' organisations are excluded. These are examples where, on the one hand, we want a good and transparent country and, on the other hand, shoulders must be shrugged or fiercely protested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U169	Thank you. Jaanus Karilaid, please, on behalf of the Group of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U170	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I congratulate the Minister that we have at least something to criticise, because let us be honest, and no one has prevented the Riigikogu itself from coming up with a better vision of state reform. I don't know any obstacles, it's purely a matter of political will. At the end of the speech, I will perhaps also get to why we ourselves have not come up with a deeper or more concrete approach to state reform by Parliament. If we talk about state reform at all, and if we start looking at the details, the danger is that we really get a very large number of opinions about how some ministry works, how some foundation works, how it thinks it should work, whether some agencies need to merge or not, whether recruitment is adequate or not. I tried to write down some keywords that, I stress, in my personal opinion would give a more complex impetus to the reform of the state. When we talk about public power, we know that public power today is essentially divided between two levels: local government and central power. The previous speaker said that more financial autonomy is needed. Will we find a political consensus and reach an agreement by autumn that we will pursue our goal here? We are saying that about 25% of the tax revenue goes to the local level, and we are talking about the Nordic countries. For us, Scandinavia is a very big example, we know that in Denmark this percentage is about 50. Do we dare to decide that we are going to step-by-step increase financial autonomy each year, that we have made a fundamental decision and that this is not part of a political campaign of violence, but is a principle that has been agreed upon? For example, the Nordic figure will then be reached within two or three years, so that we can talk that the local government is able to provide services and is viable. The second point is public services. In this document, we read about improving the quality of public services and also about harmonising services. Do we dare write down the resource in the document? If we only write down the principle, there is no guarantee that we are really dealing with digital systems, developing services, then it will only be a declaration. Well, who opposes the quality of public service? Who is opposed to ensuring the quality of services in all counties in a uniform manner? Nobody's gonna mind. Why do we have to go over this again? But it is a political choice if we make an agreement and find so much resource for it in a few moments. Now, that's political art if we can work this out. Three. Year after year, we are talking about increasing the role of Parliament. Again, who opposes members of the Riigikogu being able to increase the role of parliament? We keep saying that. But we will decide that in the state budget for 2021 we will do the wage reform of the employees of our permanent committees. If we compare with ministries and with the central authority, we could decide that yes, we will increase our role, but we will also do the wage reform of our committees' staff, we will, for example, raise the salary of 30%, which will certainly improve our competitiveness and quality. I think that Parliament's role would then also increase. If you look at the incomes of the staff of our committees compared, for example, to the incomes of the heads of department of ministries, you will, of course, see that most of the legislation has to come from the central level, because we have not even planned the resources there. But every year we talk about the role of Parliament being increased. Tomorrow is the next group meeting, we will receive a representative of the National Audit Office and give a very thorough overview of public administration, which are real resources and resources. Then we know what to criticise more precisely and what solutions to offer. So we are trying to reach our proposals at the beginning of the autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U171	Thank you. Henn Põllaas, please, on behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U172	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The state reform is actually an old thing with a beard. It's been talked about for years and years. I believe that there is no one who really doubts the need for it. Its purpose, of course, is an effective, functioning, working state or system that acts in the best way in the interests of both the state and our people. Unfortunately, over these years, it has also been clear that the emphasis of different political forces has been different. But what makes us happy is that we agree on the basic concept and purpose. The previous composition of the Riigikogu, as Ivari Padar recalled, did a very meaningful work on this subject. In addition to the decisions of the Riigikogu, we also had important discussions on national issues, we had a special problem committee set up for this, who did a very good job and wrote down very good proposals and directions to go which way. In cooperation with the Raidla State Reform SA, we signed a treaty, all the parties that were then in the Riigikogu today have a little less of a goodwill agreement here to move forward on the issue of state reform. I am sure that, although today there is a somewhat different composition in the Riigikogu, the real desire to move forward in this direction is ongoing and permanent. In this respect, I very much welcome the government's proposal to us here, the lines of action for the implementation of the state reform. This is where the Riigikogu has the opportunity to demonstrate its role, to formulate more precisely, perhaps in some cases more broadly, the reform of the state and to write down precisely those directions, principles that we consider important. The line in this draft decision that the role of the Riigikogu in deciding and adopting strategic orientations and goals increases is up to us. If we fill it with content, then we have no reason, I hope, to complain that the role of the Riigikogu has remained small, that the Riigikogu is a rubber stamp, that only the proposals and guidelines from the government and also from Brussels are met, but we can show that the Riigikogu is indeed a constitutional institution, a legislative institution. What can be better than us meeting the objective of this reform of the state in the broadest possible consensus? Of course, we will never achieve 100% consensus, but our chance is still that we reach out to each other, agree on these basic, most important things, and make sure that the reform of the state does not simply remain a beautiful talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U173	Thank you. The political groups have no further wish for negotiations, the negotiations have been concluded. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 181. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 14 September at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-18_U174	Ladies and gentlemen, Today's session is not yet over. Everyone has the opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after a hammer hit. There are no requests. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting has indeed ended today. Thank you and see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 6.56 p.m.
