ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Now let's sit down and relax. We will begin the session of the fifth working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, there is the possibility of transferring drafts and enquiries. That's not what you want. Then we'll do a presence check, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U2	84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 17. Let's start working on today's agenda, but before that, I have a small comment, a clarification of the agenda. On today's second item, the draft law amending the Law on the Name of Members of the Riigikogu, Eerik-Niles Kross, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Üllar Saaremäe, Urmas Kruuse and Kaja Kallas, will be presented on behalf of the initiators by the member of the Riigikogu Tarmo Kruusimäe. That kind of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U3	Let's start with today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft Act 202 amending the Law on the Organisation of the Energy Economy and the Natural Gas Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups want to open negotiations and make speeches? I don't see that wish. So let's go to the final vote. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 202. Let's get everyone else in the hall who's not here. What is the opinion, can we start with the final vote? That's a good mumble. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, I will vote in the final vote on the draft law amending the Energy Economy Organisation Act and the Natural Gas Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U4	86 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The draft has therefore been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U5	We will begin the processing of the second item. This is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Law on the Amendment of the Names of Members of the Riigikogu, Eerik-Niles Kross, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Üllar Saaremäe, Urmas Kruuse and Kaja Kallas. The rapporteur is Tarmo Kruusimäe, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U6	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good guardians of the Republic! The draft in question is intended to supplement the law on the name of the place. First, § 13 is supplemented by paragraph 42 as follows: 'Personal name cannot be designated as a dedication if the person has acted against the creation of the Republic of Estonia, the maintenance of constitutional order or the restoration of Estonia's independence. ' Secondly, § 30 is supplemented by paragraphs 7 and 8 as follows: 'The Council shall, within 60 days of the entry into force of the Act, make proposals to the Minister responsible for the field to amend the place names which do not comply with § 13 42 of this Act. The minister responsible shall prescribe the appointment of the place name to bring the place names into compliance with the law without delay, but not later than 30 days after receipt of the proposals of the seat name board. ' Looks simple and clear. As a reminder, in June 2002 the Riigikogu adopted a statement on the 'Occupation regime crimes in Estonia', declaring the Communist regime of the Soviet Union and the bodies of the Soviet Union that carried it violently criminal. Regrettably, 17 years later, there are still municipalities in which the names of persons who have violently performed the criminal regime are used as place names. Please support the bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U7	Thank you. Questions. Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U8	Thank you very much, Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, My question is about the last paragraph you quoted. Can you give examples of which municipalities and which names are still in use today?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U9	Thank you! Well, in Narva town, we have fighters in the Narva community. But if I'm not very wrong now, I'm also relying on the knowledge of my good groupmate, there's one left in Kohila. I probably haven't been through all the place names with that look. However, we could decide that if we currently have names incompatible with Estonian cultural history and we have not identified the names of the fighters and enthusiasts of the criminal regime, we may be talking about the cultural history, but we are not talking about the big principle that a free and dignified state does not have the custom of naming the minions of the countries that occupied it as place names.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U10	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U11	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! As we know, in Narva, our border town, Peter's site is named after Peter I, whose hands have the blood of hundreds, if not thousands of people. So, according to your bill, should we rename Peter's place?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U12	Thank you! I always have to be polite to say that's a good question. But I didn't really expect that kind of flying and open fantasy. At the same time, I say that you have the opportunity to make proposals on the draft. If you find a site with that name inappropriate for Narva City, of course. Then why not give Kadrioru a new name for the same reference? But it's a development of your mind, not my idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U13	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U14	I think this is a pretty good proposal. However, I did not understand why it could not be 'over the agreement' that we would make such a change and give the right to change these names if necessary. It was a great surprise to me that there was no consensus on this in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, especially on the side of your coalition partners. In the meantime, between the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the sitting of the Grand Chamber, have you reached an agreement with your coalition associates, so the Centre Party is also prepared to support this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U15	Thank you! I was not at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but I have observed over the course of this autumn season the convergence of all political parties and this good feeling. They're just looking for something that's cross-party. Here is the moment that, despite the views of the world or their absence, we still find that a dignified and free state will not allow the names of the minions of the regime that occupied it to be used as place names.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U16	Jaak Juske, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U17	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! I have another very important question. On March 12, 1934, a coup took place in the Republic of Estonia, during which democratically elected power was overthrown. According to your bill, should the names of the then coups be deleted from our streets and city squares?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U18	Thank you! It's strange that my class teacher was a history teacher, and now there's another history teacher I have to argue with. What I am saying is that your argument is wrong because there was no coup but a special situation. Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U19	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U20	Thank you. Mr. Waitress! It is quite unusual that the draft rapporteur was not present at the meeting of the commission, as I have just heard. However, perhaps you can explain what these arguments were against why the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was not unanimous on this matter. As I understood here earlier, the Centre Party was opposed. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U21	Thank you! Good question, of course. I think that if there's so much information noise, and if that's what we're making ourselves aware of, it's essentially misleading. The rapporteur for the bill was Eerik-Niles Kross, who today, unfortunately, could not participate in our work and asked me to report this bill. Now I can tell you that the co-rapporteur can also tell you exactly what happened in the Commission. I could guess something, but I don't know what to say right now. It's Thursday, too. It's somewhere else. But I wish you a happy music day. And I think contradictions can be overcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U22	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U23	Good chairman of the sitting! Good waitress! It is understandable that this amendment to the law is motivated by two street names in Narva, which are. One named after Albert-Au after Timann and the other named after Ancis Dauman in the 19th century. As you certainly know, the Narva Council has been spinning this question like hot potatoes for about 25 years. Now, with this bill, the state can solve this issue and give other names to the streets. Doesn't that seem like a restriction on local government rights to you? Mr Helme has also pointed out the same point.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U24	Thank you! Good question. I do not see that we are now restricting, say, the autonomy of the local government. After all, there is a public interest, there is a national interest. Well, now that the bill has been dealt with, the Minister can make the relevant injunctions and talk to the local government. Something has to be done sometime. Perhaps we have a lot of things from ancient times, and no one has dared to touch upon these matters. Like you said, the Narva Council is rolling it like a hot potato. So let's go help Narva's council.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U25	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question is based, in fact, on the views of our good colleague Jaak Juske, who you have given birth to as a history teacher. You said you were like a student. In fact, a good colleague named Jaak asked whether or not the name of the Narva Peter I site should be changed because there is a lot of blood on Peter I's hands. But I have a question about the fact that, as we know, this amendment states: 'Personal name cannot be designated as a dedication if the person has acted against the creation of the Republic of Estonia, the maintenance of constitutional order or the restoration of Estonia's independence. ' My question is this: do you think Peter I is involved in action against the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U27	Thank you, good Kalle! Good question. Of course, all these things have to do with what we're taking into the background system. If we are already thinking about the ancient struggle for freedom, whose ultimate goal was perhaps to declare the Republic of Estonia one hundred years later, then everyone else who has come here with a sword and fire has prevented this path. You could say that if we took this timeline as the background system. However, if we take this draft, I would ask such a rhetorical question: are the hands of surgeons less bloody?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U28	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U29	Thank you. Mr. Waitress! Do you not think that it is a little ridiculous, if not inappropriate, to have a pillar war in the current situation, given that we actually have a pandemic, we have an economic crisis, our Ida-Viru County issue is how we transform our economy into a way to keep people's jobs? In this situation, arguing about street names isn't it a little embarrassing?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U30	Thank you! If you're embarrassed, if you feel offended, you can go to court. Personally, I am not embarrassed about your question, that is a good question. I think where you can see the error, come and help. We've had this thing here for a long time, and somehow, in a strange way, there is no will found in the various coalitions [to change something]. However, MEPs from two political parties have now found this will, and if they want to change something, it does not really strain the other Members. It's 10:18, so it's morning, early light. We can all deal with the fight against this pandemic - prevention, wearing masks, washing up and all that. Everyone makes a small, small contribution. There is no point here in ridiculing a draft, perhaps a non-existent one, which you wanted to refer to. For example, we ban a pandemic in Estonia? I think you're free to do it. I represent the signatories at the moment. We all think, in the best of faith and will, that it is not complicated, that we switch two names in Narva and one name in Kohila and that life goes on. It's just dignity should stay.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U31	Kalle Grünthal, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U32	Thank you, Mr President. I'd still come back to that Peter I question again. It seems to me personally that Peeter I has not acted against the creation of the Republic of Estonia, the maintenance of constitutional order or the restoration of Estonia's independence, as this issue was not then dealt with. Therefore, my opinion is that the name of Peter I should not be removed from it. My question, however, is this: is the history I have presented and the understanding of this norm compatible with yours or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U33	Thank you, good Kalle! Obviously, you and I are on the wrong path, because once a history teacher set up such a postulate, he has the best knowledge. We know that when they cut into the woods, there'll be scraps. When Peter I cut the window into Europe, Estonia, of course, was also damaged, not to mention the Northern War. We only know briefly what Hillar Palamets has written in his book, but there are people here who have studied history in detail, and I think they have that information. So I wouldn't be so sure or take very firm positions here that took place several hundred years ago. I'd still talk about Narva's red communal and its representatives.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U34	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U35	Thank you very much, Mr President. In fact, I don't have such a question as I wanted to clear up a fact here. Not in Kohila, let's say, there is a street with the name of the opponents of the Estonian state, but in Rapla there is a piece of street called Comrade Jürna. Comrade Jürna was the one who tried to turn the Republic of Estonia in 1924. I really hope that at some point, Rapla will change the name of this piece of street.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U36	Thank you! Now I have to say I haven't been your very attentive listener, good Heiki. But the direction was the right one. That is why we have a group that comes and says the correct location and the correct name in the interests of the verbatim. Thank you very much for your support.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U37	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No more questions for you. Now I ask Paul Puustusmaa, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as the second rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It was a pleasure to see even a little passionate debate on these matters. It's obvious that people are thinking along. Indeed, if this bill goes further, it is expected that very sensible and wise proposals will come that will adjust this law according to need, as we would like to see it in our society. Exactly, it must be stressed that Kalle Grünthal's bullies here were not in vain. If you look at the wording of this bill, you may always wonder when we are talking about the creation of the republic and what the will of the Estonians was from the beginning, even after the beginning of the War of Independence, when we are talking about being opposed to the maintenance of constitutional order or about being opposed to the restoration of independence and independence of the republic. These are good questions that you should think about. And it's also worth thinking about. But I will now bring to you what happened in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I have to say right now that the debate on this draft, which took place in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, can be divided into two parts on a broad scale. We had questions that were 'technical', 'formal', and which were the subject of quite a debate, but then there were also substantive issues. I am trying to bring them to you to a large extent, ladies and gentlemen, and to convey them to you. First of all, bill 208 was under discussion in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, including on 22 September. I personally led the sitting, with the members of the committee Kalle Grünthal, Kaja Kallas, Siim Kiisler, Andrei Korobeinik, Hanno Pevkur, Martin Repinski and Taavi Rõivas. The initiator Eerik-Niles Kross was also present, and the Government's representative was Martin Kulp, adviser to the Regional Administrative Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, who communicated the government's views to us. I can say right now that the government's position on this draft was not supportive. First of all, when we discussed this issue in the Commission, it was a surprise for me, too, to say that, in fact, we are talking about a single rule with 208 SE specifically on the issue of the determination of personal names and devolved names, but with exactly the same wording, I stress, with exactly the same wording, that the norm is also being discussed in the other Commission. This is such an interesting situation, precisely formally, because if we follow the Riigikogu's law on home and working procedures, the point cannot be that the wording of the same rule is discussed twice at first reading, twice at second reading, twice at third reading, twice when we talk about the wording of the norm and still at different committees. In principle, this would be against the point of the Rules of Procedure, although there is no expression in the verb, yes, indeed, in the Home and Working Procedures Act. Of course, if you paraphrase now the good lost Hardi Wing, the old Romans said that the bonus liber non semel legitur, or good law, must still be read several times. However, according to the law, the point is that the norm would be discussed once at first reading, once at second reading and once at third reading. Consequently, when our committee met, I started by frying a little bit of the drafters first. I asked how it could be possible for this issue to be in two committees at once, and whether it would not be wise to put these things together in some way, to merge, to withdraw from somewhere, so that the draft would only be in one place and there would be one debate. We had quite a discussion on this subject. I've already brought part of this discussion before you. So much more I say that when I referred to two Commissions, it is because, first of all, we have a draft law 208, which is in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that is one, and second, a draft 186, with an analogous wording, is in the Committee on Rural Affairs. With regard to bill 186, it can be said that it was initiated by the Government of the Republic as a draft law amending the Law on the Names of Places Act, and this is in the Committee on Rural Affairs. When I asked how we should proceed, and what would be a reasonable idea, whether, as I said before, these drafts should be merged or one of them withdrawn, it was said that there could not be an immediate mechanical connection as far as the various committees are concerned. Kaja Kallas proposed to us in the Commission that we should first hear the parties, discuss this matter, take the necessary procedural decisions and then, once the amendments have been processed and taken into account by the Committee on Rural Affairs, the draft in question, or 208 SE proceedings, can withdraw it. So the idea of the initiators was that there would be 'double resistance' if he had fried in two committees at once, then maybe somewhere would go better. No matter what, it is not so much a question of ethics and, as has been said, it is not against the Rules of Procedure Act, so let us do it. Mr Pevkur commented that there was a fundamental difference between the drafts and the amendments; the amendments were not discussed as thoroughly as the drafts were in the Chamber. The bill also gets more attention in the hall. Perhaps the reference was to the fact that in this case, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, this issue has been brought into the proceedings as an individual draft, but in this earlier law, initiated by the Government of the Republic, it is included as a proposal for improvement. This is a fundamental difference, though, yes, the result is still the same. Eerik-Niles Kross himself said that he did not rule out the withdrawal of the bill either. In principle, it turned out, even after the Commission, that the withdrawal of this draft is not, in principle, precluded in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Finally, if our committee consulted on this particular technical issue several times, not only on one day, but on two days, then on the second day, the Commission made a consensual decision: after reading today, once we have carried it out here, we will make a letter to the Riigikogu Board on the basis of the Commission's consensual decision, where we ask for the same draft to be sent to the Committee on Rural Affairs. Then, while already technically in one committee, these drafts will be merged and will be able to complete the procedure. That's the end result. But we also discussed, of course, substantive issues, as well as the positions of the Government of the Republic on the issue of why the Government of the Republic does not support the draft. In principle, the Government of the Republic did not support for the following reasons. It was found that further clarification was needed as to whether the fight against the creation of the Republic of Estonia, the maintenance of constitutional order and the restoration of Estonia's independence was taken into account, for example, as opinions published in history literature or as arguments against the Republic of Estonia in fictional form or as praising the power of the Soviets. For example, Estonian literature knows writers whose names are used as dedicated names, but whose work may reveal strong Sovietism in some periods. There are certain aspects of supervision here. In the course of the debate, we also raised questions as to the extent that regulations are made under this law to the local government, insofar as this is in accordance with the Constitution, insofar as the self-determination and autonomy of the local government and whether it is technically possible to implement this rule. For example, since there are deadlines for the implementation of this rule, how must the local authority react? However, since there is no sanction, we know that there may also be a situation where we have a law, but it is not being enforced, and we do not have any coercion to comply with it. Then I asked questions about the concept of a dedication name. I was not aware of this and was explained to me in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs what the legal definition of the commitment name is and how a decision of discretion is to be taken. That's right, through the place name board. This is the same thing that the government referred to again when it did not give its consent. The Council would not be able to react quickly enough if we had such a short deadline. But, as I have already said, it is basically right and it was right for us in the Commission to have the proposal or the idea that these deadlines could be extended if necessary, and that is up to us. Kalle Grünthal said that the draft states that § 13 of the Place Names Act is supplemented by paragraph 42 and states that the name of the person who has acted against the creation of the Republic, the maintenance of constitutional order or the restoration of Estonian independence cannot be designated as a commitment name. He asked what would happen to those names that were put on the table when the Republic of Estonia had not yet had a similar question today, and whether such names had been mapped out. The representative of the draft Eerik-Niles Kross replied that this was, to a certain extent, a social agreement; such a dispute would arise outside the context of this draft. The Commission then asked whether, for example, the use of the name Alfons Rebane would be banned. Eerik-Niles Kross replied that according to this draft, the use of the name Fox would not be directly prohibited. On behalf of the Government of the Republic, Mr Kulp said that it was problematic to interpret the norm, the same question, that if we are talking about the time of restoration of the Republic or the fight against independence and cultural ties, then we need to make an extra assessment of what the Council cannot do. This is, in the view of the government, an important problem. On this point, Kaja Kallas asked whether it was known how many suspicious street names there were in Estonia, and whether there really were so many that they could not be reviewed in the 60 days foreseen in the draft. What's the obstacle? All in all, there are 225 dedicating names now, and it should be possible to review them. Mr Kiisler commented that when we talk about reviewing and weighing names, it is, in principle, possible in the form of our various registers. There is a register of place names in Estonia, where information about all street names is likely to be available quite quickly, and here this 60-day period cannot be an obstacle. Taavi Rõivas also said that many years ago the problem of bilingual street signs was solved in Tallinn and was well managed. He doesn't see any problem here either, in terms of complexity. When we discussed the issue of local government intervention, it was thought that this could create tensions and these nuances definitely need to be considered. In this regard, consent was in principle in place, but it was also found that if we talk about the interference and if it is sufficiently justified, sufficiently proportionate and justified, then in fact, this interference could be allowed and not be contrary to the Constitution. Those disputes, as I said, were two-dimensional. On the one hand, there are rather linguistic and semantic questions arising from the draft law, but there are also legal questions. Ultimately, we went to make procedural decisions. It is difficult to say exactly how and what each Member of the Commission was thinking, but I know for sure what I was thinking. In any case, when the vote was taken, the score was 4: 4 - the votes were split in half. Therefore, on the basis of our Rules of Procedure law, we can conclude that the Commission has not taken a decision. So here we are, without the Commission's decision, which, according to the law, essentially means that the first reading should be completed. As I said, on September 29, we had our last hearing where we once again chewed through the legal aspects of this thing. And then the Commission adopted a consensual decision to send a request to the Bureau to merge these drafts into a rural committee, where it would have its real place. That was the brief debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U39	Thank you. Questions. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, good waitress, for this very thorough presentation indeed. The bill states that the person's name cannot be named as a dedication if the person has acted against the restoration of Estonia's independence. That's what you were talking about. Am I correct to understand that this bill will in future rule out the streets of those who were in the service of the occupying authorities during the occupation period, were active in the security bodies and other public authorities having a significant influence on society? And is there any significance here in the period of time, especially when we are talking about the 1980s, which is the period immediately preceding the restoration of independence, if perhaps the right side could have been chosen by now? How, then, should this paragraph be interpreted in the end?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U41	Thank you very much. I mean, in fact, it is now that there was a very important and hot debate on this issue. Indeed, this principle has been repeatedly referred to by Kalle Grünthal, and colleagues have also spoken about it, that when we talk about the norm itself, which is precisely stated here, it says: '[... ) who have acted against the creation of the Republic of Estonia, the maintenance of constitutional order or the restoration of the independence of Estonia', the seat name council must consider this matter. However, as I said, the position of the government is, in any case, that the Council does not have such competence or capacity and that it is obviously necessary to include expertise. So we'll see. But right now, I get it, I think it's like that, yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U42	I understand Kalle Grünthal has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U43	As I recall, when the esteemed waitress Paul Puustusmaa came to the remote, he used my name. I would like to say something on this basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U44	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U45	Thank you. This bill is very interesting in that sense. Since I am right now, perhaps I could develop a reflection on what the legal rules by which we identify in absolute and categorical form that this person has acted against the creation of the state, the maintenance of order or the restoration of independence could be. This cannot be just a common phrase or opinion; this question should still be dealt with in more detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U46	This, of course, was not a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U47	Yeah. Thank you, Kalle! I also say it wasn't procedural. But indeed, in an attempt to answer and to try to understand what was said in the Commission and what the parties thought there, it is, in fact, a matter of fact. Indeed, it cannot be merely an opinion or a belief that is based on nothing, but it is still, let us say, a question of fact-finding. This is also why the government representative said that the House Names Council might not be able to do this. I don't exactly appreciate it here. It is possible that this will require deeper expertise to identify: in these circumstances and in these circumstances, there is a person who really fought against the creation of our independent state or fought against the restoration of independence or so on. Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U48	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In your report, you expressed a certain concern or scepticism about the fact that there are two drafts in the proceedings in different committees. Perhaps you will explain to the Chamber why the government had to initiate the draft after the delegates had already taken such an initiative. Why didn't the government just come to this bill with its suggestions for improvement? And why do you think the Committee on Rural Affairs is the best place to discuss such matters? I would rather have thought that the same Committee on Constitutional Affairs could be the right place.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U50	Thank you for your question. Basically, it is difficult for me to answer because I have not been involved in the decision-making of the Government of the Republic. Those arguments about how it was discussed there and why it was done, I don't know. At the moment, however, I can only rely on the knowledge that I have developed in the committee session, and that was not the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U51	Jürgen Ligi, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U52	Thank you. I wanted to be a signatory to this bill, but I was late, which is why I have a special interest in it. There has been a rumor that there has been a difference of opinion in the Commission. But your report was, as always, so sleepy and detailed that I didn't catch it with an apology! But I was able to hear a nervous question today about whether you're embarrassed if you don't deal with the corona. I was embarrassed to hear that question. However, tell me what was in the Commission's statement of opposition to this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U53	Thank you for your question. As I said, the arguments against it were quite different and quite a lot. On the one hand, this was due to the arguments already put forward by the Government concerning the deadlines, as well as to the completion of the procedure itself there for 60 days, 30 days or so, i.e. when and how it can be demanded; if there are no sanctions and if the law is not complied with, what will be done in that case; who is able to assess in which case we are dealing with combating the restoration of independence and with persons who are involved in [such activities] from what period, etc. These are all such [unanswered] questions. After all, we know that Estonians love to chew the star and pick things up, they want to get a very firm and clear answer to their questions. It's complicated in this situation. My personal position as to why I was opposed is, above all, that the idea of the Rules of Procedure Act is contrary to a situation where the procedure of one and the same rule takes place in parallel in two committees. It's like a game in a very gray area that shouldn't be allowed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U54	Raimond Kaljulaid, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U55	Thank you. I come back to my first question. You're a lawyer, and I appreciate your opinion. You agreed with me, too. Let's take a sample case. One of the ministers of the current government, Mart Helme, Minister of the Interior during the occupation period, worked in the Marxism-Leninism Department in the Estonian Book Publishing Department and later nearly ten years in the Pioneer Journal. The pioneer was published in the 1940s and 1989s, published directly by the publishing house of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Estonia in Tallinn, which was understood to be a means of spreading the ideology against Estonia's re-independence efforts among our young people. Please tell me if anyone in the future would now propose to name a street called Mart Helme in a city would be contrary to this law. You are not suggesting that working as such a zealous Soviet Communist propaganda in the period immediately prior to the restoration of independence is not an act against Estonia's independence?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U56	Thank you, my good colleague. As far as I know, Mart Helme has refuted all these claims as being untrue, and I have no reason to doubt his words. So in that case, I can say no.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U57	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U58	Good manager! Good waitress! Now, if you look at it more broadly, I'm going to ask you this inappropriate question. On August 20, 1991, 69 votes in favour were received, two delegates who walked out of this hall in a demonstrational way at the time of the vote. One was Klavdia Sergij, the MP, and the other was Kaido Kama. If at one point a question arises, could there be a street called Sergij or a street called Kama, then they are out of the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U59	Yes, you see, good friend and colleague, now we are going back to a gray area where, on the one hand, we could really start to see if, in a particular case, this was a protest against our constitutional order, indeed, when we start to go to the end, but on the other hand, I consider this behaviour to be such a trivial element in our history that I do not pay particular attention to it. But that's the way it is, and we can keep arguing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U60	Urmas Kruuse, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U61	What I heard was that you're worried about two proceedings. Although the government could then have withdrawn its draft from the procedure, or you could have advised the government to withdraw it, so we would have had one draft. But hypothetically, is this regulation okay? Mrs Raik claimed that the Narva Council would now reach the end of several decades, even though this faith has long been lost. But if the Narva Council would like to call the street Stalin Street right now, I understand that we do not have much sanctions or standards to deal with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U62	Yes, a good questioner, indeed, there are no sanctions. My personal conviction and opinion is always that if we foresee some kind of obligation, but we do not in any way motivate it, there is no motivation for the motivations that can be very different and in different directions, then it is difficult.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U63	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U64	Thank you. I, too, will see what committee should deal with this. In my opinion, toponymics is such an integral part of national culture that it should have been dealt with at all by the Committee on Culture. But all right, that's that. There's another problem. The thing is, as a historian, it bothers me when we patch one thing, another thing, or a third thing, because I kind of want a broader picture at the same time. The law should not apply to every place. I wonder if this law would get you what it feels like. just make another harmonic correction and take in the names of the place from which the names of people of Estonian importance have been grazed and replaced by the names of some May, October or any other calendar month? Even though there have been dignified people who were previously remembered with street names, they still stand there. Can such a thing be restored a little bit, or does it not fit in there? How do you feel?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U65	Thank you, my good colleague. I think it'll fit in any way. The deadline for proposing amendments is there, proposals can be made, things can be discussed and analysed. Rather, the question is what the Commission is doing. There was a reference out of your mouth that could be dealt with by the Committee on Culture. Yeah, I'm telling you the truth, I think you could too. However, one decision has now been made, and at the moment it is on the Committee on Rural Affairs, if it is approved by the Board of the Riigikogu. Now it is simply the question that, according to § 99 of our Home and Working Procedures Act, the deadline for submitting amendments is ten days, so that they can be made during that period. And in this case, I expect them to be submitted to the Committee on Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U66	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U67	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I don't mean to instigate the paranoia of a socialist colleague, but there is an office in the creative biography of the Honorable President of the sitting, such as the deputy editor-in-chief of the Public Voice. You don't think we should take a stand here, do you?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U68	Thank you for your question. I do not take a position on this because we did not discuss this issue in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U69	The unprecedented situation, because the manager cannot actually say anything procedurally, but since my name was touched, I would just like to say that the House Names Council will consider it if the city of Tallinn wants a street of my name or if it wants to name a street with my name. So I hope all things will be considered. Of course, Mr Reitelmann also worked in a very party-led institution, or Estonian Television. So we're all equal here. But let's get back to this bill. Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U70	It seems to me that this whole debate is reaching the absurdity of a quiet drag because there are names to be banned, including the Knight's Street, etc. So we can get anywhere. But my question is different. You described the position of the government, which I think was rather strangely motivated, it came to fictional examples and to the fact that the House Name Council lacked sufficient expertise. However, it is certainly not the only body set up by the state to use external expertise, and there is nothing surprising about it. So in my ears, the government's reasonings sound more like excuses, not substantive points of view. But my question to you as an important politician of the government coalition is this: do you have information on the formation of the government's position? Was it, as usual, a consensual government decision, or was there different opinions within the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U71	Thank you, good questioner! I've basically answered that already. On the one hand, it is difficult for me to answer because I myself was not involved in the government's decision-making process, but I can say for sure that the government is taking decisions in a consensual manner, and that decision was probably consensual.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U72	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions. Now we have the opportunity to open negotiations. Representatives of the political groups can take part in the negotiations. Katri Raik, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U73	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, On a sunny Thursday, I will try not to hold you for long. The Social Democrats support this bill and its integration into another similar draft. At the same time, we think that there should probably be some clarification of the wording, so that this whole debate does not get to the point of absurdity. Since I am also a member of the Narva Council, let me say a few words about why the people of Narva obviously do not understand what we are discussing here. First of all, it's not Narva's question number one. The most important jobs for the people of Narva are jobs. But really, if you look at what the Estonian press has written most about in the last 25 years, I think that Dauman and Timann have written famous about the press. The renaming of these two streets has been a very fundamental issue for many people. Above all, those who have lived in Narva before the war, many of whom, perhaps even most of them, are looking at us from the cloud border. It was extremely important to them. Narva's own people would say there's no point in fighting history. There are some local opinion leaders who say that it is precisely because of Dauman and Timann that the Republic of Estonia was born. Opinions vary widely. I'm coming to see Dauman and Timann. These two men led the Estonian Workers' Union, which was born the same day that the War of Independence began, at the end of November 1918. The time of the working community in Narva was short, it ended on January 19, 1919, i.e. it lasted only a few months. The churches were taken over. At least 260 people were killed. There's still a list of them. The lists include titles such as Urjanik, White Guard, Militia, Russian cardboard, and those who then went to the execution. What were the charges? For example, an Estonian officer, a thief, a hooligan, a spy, a suspicious person. At least 260 people have indeed been killed. Memories tell us how 30 people were found in a sibi hole in Joala's factory. So it was serious. Why, then, do local people not know what we know or think we know? When you think about where our Russian person should read about Estonian history, there are indeed some Russian-language articles, special editions of the magazine Tuna about this time, 1918-1919. But if you look for literature in Russian, you have to choose between three books. In 2005, Mart Laar's approach has appeared, which unfortunately we cannot recommend to our Russian-speaking people, because they do not take it very seriously. In 2013, seven years ago, a review of the history of Seppo Zetterberg, a Finnish professor, was translated into Russian. And now, during the Coronary season, a large block issued by Avita's publishing house, an overview of Estonian history in Russian, actually appeared, which costs 50 euros in the shop. I don't think it's gonna get on a lot of narcissists' desk. I really am a member of the Narva Council, and I run the opposition there. If this issue were to be voted on, I would vote in favour of changing street names. However, this vote would probably not work. If the country decides to change these street names, it will be 25 years of fighting in favour of the country, 1:0. Narva is still Estonia. That this fight would bring Narva closer to Tallinn, I don't think so. If the city of Narva had, for example, a sanction to pay a fine, I'm pretty sure the fine would be paid, but those street names would be kept. So there's a suspicion inside me. I understand everything and support this amendment, but at the same time I understand the people of Narva who do not understand. This is our challenge. But I stress again, before next week, that Narva is Estonia and needs attention not only on the issue of street names, but also on many other issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-01_U74	Thank you. There is no further desire to participate in the negotiations, so I consider the negotiations to be concluded. As the rapporteurs said, the commission did not fix the position. The Bureau regrets this because we have made it clear that the committees must come here with their position. But that doesn't mean there are any points of law that would prevent us from handling this bill. So if no political group proposes to reject the draft, the first reading is closed. I don't see that wish, so the first reading is finished. The deadline for tabling amendments is 15 October at 5.15 p.m.
