ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U1	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, we will start the 6th working week Tuesday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to pass on drafts and enquiries? Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U2	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let me hand over the following bill here. This is a draft of the Riigikogu decision "Proposal for the Government of the Republic to develop a hydrogen strategy." The draft proposes to the Government of the Republic to develop a national hydrogen strategy to exploit the potential of hydrogen technologies to reduce carbon emissions and decarbonise the economy. The hydrogen strategy provides the basis for integrating hydrogen technologies into national climate documents, such as the basics of climate policy up to 2050 and the Estonian National Energy and Climate Plan for 2030, thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U3	Thank you. There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. On behalf of the Management Board, I have adopted one draft and the Management Board of the Riigikogu processes it in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U4	88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 13.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U5	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic "Use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the operation of the International Maritime Security Coalition on Sentinel." I would like to ask Andres Metsoja, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, with this draft decision, we will reopen this year's mission package. It is true that there is only one of them in the process now, but there will be the following immediately, because the government has already handed over a number of them. The draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 8 June, and the Commission has worked on it, attended various meetings and also received an overview at the main headquarters with the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The deadline for submitting amendments was 17 p.m. on 30 September. However, no amendments were received. However, there was a meeting of the National Defence Committee, which decided to propose an amendment to the Commission. In point 1 of the draft, the text is replaced by the text "1 October to 2020'. the text from 1 November to 2021.'. This has led to a discussion, in particular, on whether we should really focus only on this, this year or, in fact, because this year is already coming to an end and, in fact, this mission has not even begun, I do not think it would be wise to give such a mandate from this hall, which may not be fulfilled, and we should start processing it again at the same time. It is therefore agreed with representatives of the government that the parallel draft mission number 272, which has also been transferred, will be withdrawn by the government if we reach the mountain with this draft. However, as far as the content of the draft is concerned, the United States launched the International Maritime Security Coalition in 2019 to ensure maritime freedom and ship security in the Strait of Hormuz and to promote rules-based international order. The United States and the United Kingdom made a request to contribute to the operation. Procedural decisions and proposals of the lead committee. At its meeting on 19 October, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the second reading of the draft and, based on the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, to put the draft to a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U7	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U8	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! One aspect of today's draft is basically that we're sending our boys to the naval security coalition operation, but I have a problem because at the moment, the soldiers who have been severely injured, who are disabled, are completely neglected. Attention is given to their housing conditions. For example, on Mäekalda Street in Tallinn, a residential building has been built for them, with special invalids, etc., but the rent has been raised so much that men have had to move out of there. Basically, we are producing cannon meat with the current bill, and then nothing more will be done about those in need. I have a question: as Chairman of the National Defence Commission, do you intend to investigate this situation and eliminate this injustice?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U9	Thank you. Surely there are always more problems in life than we can offer solutions, but with this bill, I hope we do not produce cannon meat. But the information you came out of here, I'll take it with me.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U10	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U11	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Is the veteran policy launched in 2012 no longer fulfilling its tasks when we heard about these problems, or is there just a little bit of information noise here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U12	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U13	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U14	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, I heard a figurative expression here that with this bill we produce cannon meat. There's absolutely no such thing as being under gunfire in this responsibility, is there?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U15	No, that is not the way we discussed this in the Commission. Indeed, we give a mandate to send five fighters. Actually, it's an agreement to involve a fighter. Often, the problem of conflicts is that people are injured and that people may also die. I think we are all fully conscious of this problem here in the Riigikogu Chamber. I would not like to open up or handle any mission, but unfortunately we live in the world we live in, and we need to make these decisions so that this world is more balanced.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U16	Thank you. No further questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu, the political groups, want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. An amendment to the draft has also been tabled. This amendment has been tabled by the Committee on National Defence; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 211, and we will go to it. Honourable Riigikogu! I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, entitled "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the operation of the International Maritime Security Coalition on Sentinel." Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U17	84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U18	Today's second item is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision "Proposal to the Government of the Republic to develop legislative changes to solve the problem of long-term maintenance burden" presented by the Social Democratic Party Group. I would like to ask a member of the Riigikogu, Helmen Hunt, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U19	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased to introduce you to the draft decision of the Riigikogu on social and health matters 224 "Proposaling the Government of the Republic to develop legislative changes to solve the problem of long-term care burden," which was initiated twice by the Social Democrats on 25 August of this year. Today, it is certainly more than ever necessary to find solutions to the problem of long-term care burdens, which will ensure a human-centred care organisation for all those in need. The Estonian population is ageing and the system of organising long-term care urgently needs fundamental changes that would reduce the care burden of family members and provide assistance to people with care needs. Good fellows! The purpose of the draft decision of the Riigikogu before you is to allow human-centred and dignified welfare for all people who need it. The right service at the right time and in the right place, still to make life more alive and decent. The draft deals with eight issues that are currently being dealt with and proposes amendments to the law. These proposals are firstly the need to increase public funding to improve access to services, with the aim of allocating additional funding to local authorities for the development and provision of social services. Secondly, reduce the maintenance burden, including people's own participation in the payment of care services. Third, to determine the minimum standard of living of the person receiving the service, i.e. the limit of income, the amount that the person must retain after paying for the services. Fourthly, to establish precise mandatory minimum requirements for social services, which would ensure equal and better access to care services across Estonia. Fifthly, ensure the quality and supervision of care services. Sixthly, integrate social and health services in order to improve people's livelihoods and provide more effective assistance and ensure more targeted use of public and local funds. Seventhly, ensure that the carer's allowance, social guarantees and other support services are adequate for the carer. Eighthly, ensure the availability of a skilled workforce in the area of long-term care. Youth and old age are not diseases; they are part of life's expenses. It is a journey where stages of life, such as youth and middle age, can be enjoyed as well as old age, when it is thought out, how to be prepared for challenges on the road and how to deal with them independently or, if necessary, with help. The eight proposals made by the Socialists are based on the principle that home is the most important and best for people. In order to be able to live at home as long as possible and spend your old age there, there is a need to increase open-air care services and to support people's freedom of decision and self-sufficiency with all measures. This model is best for people and cheaper for both the municipality and the state. The essential elements of this model are home care, personal help and support service, adapting homes from providing physical access to technical and smart innovative solutions, social transport, service houses, day-care centres for older people and dementias. And all the more so that a person can live in his own home as long as possible. Of course, we also need to talk about nursing homes, palliative care and hospital services, if necessary. But these are all the next steps. We have good examples to learn from. Let it be an example of Finland where the local government is obliged to provide a nursing home and the person pays only a maximum of 85% of his or her pension. There is no financial obligation for children and grandchildren to pay for the place of care. It is clear that if local authorities have a responsibility and, of course, financial resources to do so, all kinds of social and health care services will be provided to people, especially at home, in order to extend their self-sufficiency. Unfortunately, in Estonia, there are not enough opportunities between home and nursing home. And since the obligation to pay for a nursing home is largely the responsibility of the family, there is no pressure on local authorities to create and provide the various social services they need. Of course, we do not have to do what we do in other countries, but we can take the best practices and make an Estonian model that is decent, which is compatible with our opportunities and combines social work and health care, also ensuring that the care of the loved one remains, not because of coercion, but if he wishes, the reward and social guarantees of those who care about themselves would be guaranteed, and that their own health would not suffer from hard work and concern. The goal of our eight steps is that if we live at home for as long as possible, we can afford to pay for the assistance offered. Its good quality must be guaranteed, and, most importantly, its availability must not depend on its place of residence, but must be equally guaranteed in Estonia. I am quite convinced that there are no people in this Chamber who do not know the problems of health care and welfare arrangements. This does not require special or higher education in this field. There are people in this hall who have experience in the work of the local government, who have people in need of care or even care in their family or friends. Today, at a time when many people have become unemployed because of the evil kroon virus, but who have financial obligations to cover the cost of caring for their loved ones, the draft we have tabled is particularly topical. The fact that the social sector has been underfunded for years, even decades, is not news to anyone either. This decision of the Riigikogu does not seek the reasons why it has been so far and why nothing different has been done, who is guilty, but instead is called upon to find solutions. I'd be unfair to say nothing's been done over the years. It certainly is, but unfortunately, there has been some tinkering in one corner, though another, without seeing the bigger picture and yet also looking at the social and health sectors separately. The explanatory memorandum of the draft law sets out, together with references and sources, a long history and overview of the studies that have been carried out in this area and which all come to a common conclusion. This conclusion is that, at present, the main carrier of costs and liabilities is the recipient of the service and its family's own contribution is increasing over the years. Children and grandchildren are the ones who pay for the difference or then stay out of work and become a carer due to circumstances and lack of financial resources. As an example, the share of the recipient and his family in paying for the care home has increased steadily. It was 65% in 2010, 76% in 2016 and 80% in 2018. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs, in 2018 people paid 53 million euros for nursing home services. It consisted of an old people's own pension and fees paid by children or grandchildren to offset the amount between the pension and the nursing home. At the same time, the state spent 14 million euros on maintenance services with local authorities. While in 2008 the cost of the state and local authorities was 11 million euros and people paid a total of 17.5 million euros, in 10 years the cost of the municipalities has increased only EUR 3 million, i.e. EUR 14 million, as has been said earlier, but the sum of the people's costs is 35.5 million higher, i.e. the total cost of the people is 53 million euros. This clearly confirms the level of public expenditure on long-term care in Estonia and other countries of the European Union. On average, countries spend 1.4 to 1.8% of GDP on financing long-term care. In Estonia, however, the figures are only 0.2 to 0.4% of GDP. In 2018, Estonia's financing for long-term care accounted for approximately 0.4% of GDP. When we compare Lithuania, Finland, Denmark and Estonia, we see that in 2016, Lithuania spent 1%, Finland 2.2%, Denmark 2.5% and Sweden 3%. The World Bank analysis carried out in Estonia points out that the costs of long-term care in the Estonian public sector must increase to at least 2 or 2.5% of GDP in order to improve the situation in our long-term care system. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs, local governments and the state need additional funding of almost EUR 150 million to improve access to care services. This figure has also been expressed by Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. I think it's a very correct number, given the whole system. Today, too much pressure has been placed on family and family carers, both financially, psychologically and physically. Poverty and old age and family care are women's faces. It is no secret to anyone that the poverty of older people is very high in Estonia. The study "The economic livelihood and poverty of the elderly" was carried out by the Ministry of Social Affairs in June 2019 and is open for inspection by everyone. The carers are today very small beneficiaries and in the future very small beneficiaries of the pension. If we do not immediately tackle the long-term care burden of the whole social and health sector, we will not break this cycle of poverty. I'm a believer in science and research and analysis. It is certainly right to make decisions based on studies, analyses, scientific arguments and considering the needs of the sector and the possibilities of the country, i.e., as the proverb says, ten times in length and once. Believe me, ten times, perhaps even more, the country has studied this area on the initiative of different governments and ministers. Here I bring a small overview of the chronology of the studies carried out on long-term care. In 2002, the development of the Social Welfare Development Plan started for the years 2005 to 2015. This is to ensure that health and social work go hand in hand. The following are hereby appointed to the Committee of the Regions for the remainder of the current term of office, which runs until 25 January 2020: The August 2017: The government endorses the proposals for financing initial measures to reduce the maintenance load for the years 2018 to 2021. In December 2017, the government endorsed recommendations for long-term care policies. The work of the Task Force. In 2018, the Ministry of Social Affairs put together the concept of long-term care on the basis of the work of the Task Force. In December 2018, the government endorsed this concept. In 2019 the Ministry of Social Affairs carried out a detailed intervention plan on how to build up the long-term care system in Estonia. In January 2020, the government approved long-term care development plans. Good fellows! When the government approved a plan for the development of long-term care in January of this year, why was it agreed that the Ministry of Social Affairs would submit a draft law on long-term care by the end of 2020? Is this really not a priority for the government? In a situation where the government was able to develop a package of measures to preserve the economy due to the kroon virus in two months, to maintain workers' jobs and to cope with the virus without any research or analysis, can it not provide solutions in the area studied for such a long time and thus allow people who are forced to be carers today to return to the labour market? In fact, studies exist, there is a knowledge of how to deal with the long-term care problem. All we need is will and little pressure from the Riigikogu to take this initiative. Briefly and summarily, once again, the ideas in our draft on how long-term care can be made human-centred. First, a person must have the right and the opportunity to stay at home as long as possible, to cope independently, if necessary with support. Secondly, the opening-up services provided are affordable, perhaps it would be more appropriate to say, pensionable. Third, each person receives the right service to ensure that he or she has the help and support that he or she needs. Fourthly, the social and health sectors go hand in hand, people are not being evicted from one system to another. Fifthly, there are similar opportunities across Estonia and a high quality service is guaranteed. Sixthly, if there is no longer any success at home, where the pension is provided by a nursing home. Seventhly, in the honor of the work of the caretaker, it is not forced, but if they so wish, and they are guaranteed both social guarantees and a living reward for this work. And by eight, the existence of educated, qualified staff and their wages correspond to the work done. Finally. I request your support for the draft decision submitted. This would ensure equal treatment for older people in the future, both with and without children, and would provide assurance that action will also be taken in accordance with research and knowledge. The launch of a healthy long-term care system and further social support are indispensable. A worthy old age is a man's right. The government can come up with its proposed timetable within the framework of this draft decision, but it will start as early as 1 January 2021. Believe me, we owe it to our elderly and family carers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U20	Thank you. You have questions too. Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U21	Thank you, good manager. Mrs. Helmen Hunter! You talked about this time frame for a long time. Indeed, 3 December 2015 was the day a task force was set up at the State Chancellery. It has been five years, and when the initial implementation time is 2022, seven years is the time when people have not actually received enough help. But in addition to developing a system that is the content of this draft, it is actually a question of resources, or budget. Would you tell us how much money is planned in next year's budget for long-term care, these development activities, and how much you know is expected to receive this resource from the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U22	Thank you very much. We actually had the same question in the Committee on Social Affairs. The Minister provided various figures, but in fact there is no additional financial resources from the state budget for the problems of long-term care and carers. There's money to build nursing homes. There's a, true, own contribution. I am honestly saying that there is also a need to build nursing homes, because if you look at the explanatory memorandum to the draft, how many people are in the care service today and how many actually need it, there is a difference between them, but above all there is a need to develop open care services, home services, and services that are unfortunately not offered by municipalities today. As I said when presenting the bill, the pressure to provide these care services and opening services arises when the municipality is obliged either to guarantee or to buy and pay for these nursing homes by tender. As long as there is no such obligation, as long as there is no such pressure, family law will continue to be referred to. It wasn't until a week ago that we all read sad stories about how children and grandchildren call themselves slaves in nursing homes, where people who have actually been educated are forced to remain their own carers because they lack the means. Yes, we know that there is a right to turn to the local government, and I wouldn't drop that ball even if I blamed the local governments. Very often, the funds of local governments are scarce for this. But once again, looking at the social budget, activities and developments there, we are likely to see a plan to solve this problem, as the government plans, in 2022.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U23	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, As usual, reports from the remote create associations. I remembered the information I had just read that children now born in this decade live to be 100 to 120 years old. But in fact there was a very good presentation, we received an extraordinary amount of information to understand the subject. But you gave an example from Finland of how it is organised there, and at the same time you gave examples from the Scandinavian countries of which part of the periphery is GDP, what is the state's expenditure? You also mentioned Sweden. Do we have anything to take over from Sweden?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U25	Thank you very much for this question. I think it is wise that we look at how our neighbours are, we gather good ideas and ideas, and then we do something of our own, real Estonia. And if you will allow me, however, I would like to add a little bit more to the Finnish section, because I am not so familiar with the Swedish system. I am very familiar with Finnish and also some German matters concerning care insurance. I've been looking into it. But let me give you a simple example. Indeed, municipalities in Finland undertake commitments. 93 to 95% of people over the age of 75 live at home, make sure they live at home. And it is written in the development plans of the municipality, still because it is best to live at home, and because it is also best for the municipality to offer home services rather than to pay the most expensive service, i.e. the service of the welfare institution. And really in that case, if you can't do it at home anymore, well, then it's a nursing home. At some point, the Socialists have also been accused that this bill means that everyone is going to a nursing home. Absolutely not. On the contrary. I think that so many people who are in nursing homes today could manage at home if there were enough services on the ground that they really need. The same example of the service house in Tallinn, I know, is very intensively organised and done, and has been very clear about what your member of the party, Liis Klaar, has said when he comes back from abroad to Estonia, has seen that this is an opportunity to live longer at home.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U26	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U27	Thank you. Thank you for this very interesting presentation. First of all, I would like to say that I, too, am very much in favour of people living in their homes as long as possible. Certainly the state and local government should allow this, because the best is always in their home. But we know that not all people always have this opportunity, sometimes their situation is just that they actually need constant surveillance or that they want to be with others. Surely the need for nursing homes as a whole will not go away. My question is perhaps a little broader, because you have been so serious about this, we all see that you are. Have you also discussed that Estonia's situation would be improved by such a step if we rescued nursing homes from such a logic of profit-making market forces? Should they belong to the state or local governments to ensure that nursing homes are made not for money but for the well-being of people?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U28	Thank you very much for this question. I really want to thank you, Oudekki, from the very heart, for the fact that last time we had the same draft, you supported and gave your vote. 51 votes were missing, but in any case, you had given your support and contributions. Thank you for that. Now it's about the property of nursing homes. Indeed, in a large number of places, municipalities maintain welfare institutions. The cost of a home is also very different. We all know that across Estonia it can vary from 700 euros to over 1000, 1200, 1500 euros. I have heard that for a person with very high maintenance needs and a very luxurious care facility, which could be called five-star hotels, the cost of a place in full-bed nursing care is nearly EUR 2 000 per month. So the cost of a nursing home can be deceiving. Somewhere he's got drugs and diapers that he doesn't have, he's got a basic price, plus the drugs he needs, and they're billed. So the cost is very, very different. Now, ownership. I think, again, as an example of Finland, that not everything has to be done by itself, the service can also be bought in, but if it is purchased by the municipality and by the procurement procedure (for those who do not have an assessment of the need to be provided with other services, but who do not want to go to a nursing home and whose family or who has the means to do so, there will always be a choice of more expensive place), then, if it is considered necessary, the nursing home should still be guaranteed for the pension. It's like a question of human dignity. So I cannot say that this is a problem if the nursing home is owned either by the municipality or by someone else, private enterprise. But the municipality should be able to control it and it is also the content of this draft that it will be controlled. Again, I will give a simple example of our northern neighbours, where the call for tenders is announced, cannot offer so much themselves. And as a result of this procurement, they buy so-called wholesale. But twice a year they go unannounced to check that this price and service are in line. It's not just talking to workers, it's talking to people who are in the service and their loved ones. This ensures that, as I said, the service has a price, the good service also has a higher price, but it has been checked and, if the municipality maintains it, it also ensures that the regulation of the price level has been discussed in the council. The costs are known, everything is public. But once again, I wouldn't rule out any form of ownership, but I'd like it to be controlled and of high quality.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U29	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U30	Thank you. Good waitress! Thank you very much for your meaningful presentation. The explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal states that a country-wide common methodology should be developed to assess the economic situation of people and determine the size of their participation. Tiina Kangro describes the same idea and idea in today's Estonian Päevaleht article. You have given examples of our neighbouring countries. I would like to know if you have any examples of a local government in Estonia that is already fulfilling its obligation to people with care needs in an exemplary way today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U31	Thank you very much. I cannot say that municipalities will perform their duties in a less or more exemplary manner. I don't know how to bring a government that looks like it's okay. My concern and, frankly, the reason for initiating the Social Democrats' draft is that the support of both the perceptive officer and the procedure for determining it are very different today across Estonia. It can be said that it is a good thing that conditions are set and established that are suitable for this area. But we pay taxes evenly all over Estonia. However, the difference between carer benefits: 40, 60, 20 euros for 24-hour care and monthly care. They're so different. At the same time, municipalities also establish their own arrangements to support children, what amount must be retained by the family member and calculated. They are also completely different across Estonia. Unfortunately, I have received more worrying appeals and letters on this subject. There are definitely municipalities that are trying to do their best, and I wouldn't be naming one or two here, because then I might hurt three or four. But once again, if the nursing home is owned by the municipality and there are certain conditions and procedures in place for obtaining support and assistance, even the Chancellor of Justice has today discussed the issue of whether only he or she will be taken into account in assessing the elderly's own ownership and the value of his or her property, or whether it is extended to children and grandchildren. So basically these topics have all been on the table and they have been discussed and there is no single position here. That is why I think that the Social Democrats did not come with a bill that says that this must be done. We come with a bill that the government, together with the best experts, but also with all the political parties of the Riigikogu, would find a suitable option for Estonia. We're ready to bet. It's also an opportunity to come up with a schedule, a schedule that's fit for purpose, and yet something's going to happen to start going somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U32	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Good Helmen! My question does not now directly concern this bill, but it certainly pushes it, because one of the points you also mentioned was the integration of health care and social welfare. It's very important to me, because having seen it as a practitioner, how much it's necessary, I want to ask. You've been chosen from Viljandimaa. Three or four years ago, or even more, Viljandi Hospital started a pilot project that sought to implement the principle that active medical care would be transferred to social welfare and how to organise it in the example of one county. But I have no information about whether this pilot project has now been completed and what the results are. Maybe you have some information.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U34	Thank you very much. I thank you very much for this question and for your feedback. This need in this area is so great because shaking a person between one system and another is often caused by money. The daily subsistence allowance for intensive care in the hospital, as well as for subsequent care, is higher than that of the nursing home and is partially covered by the state. A person pays a very small share and is often moved from one service to another. In the meantime, he'll be at home for a few days, and then he'll be brought back by ambulance. It is not, in fact, a rational use of the money of either the state or the health insurance fund, and it is, of course, very burdensome for the person. Indeed, Viljandi Hospital, in cooperation with the county social workers, started the so-called PAIK project, where a team was taken, the person was looked at as a whole: his health needs, his needs due to his diagnosis, and the social workers knew what to follow when they went home. I have not read the final results of this project. But especially now, in a situation where there is the hope that Viljandi Hospital and Health Centre will be located in the city centre, there is a very good contact, social workers, hospital and nursing department working very well together. I know that because I spoke to Priit Tampere a few weeks ago. The problems of older people, as well as those with mental health problems, are being prevented and Viljandi has a very good chance of doing so because they also have the possibility of having specialist psychiatric care there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U35	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U36	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear waitress, I was now interested in listening to this discussion, and since you are a very large expert in this field, I dare ask you how many nursing homes there are in Estonia today to manage the local government and how many of them are managed by the private sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U37	Yeah, I'm telling you now, because in this landscape... Thanks for the question, too. Since this landscape has quite rapid developments and we can continue to read how private care homes actually come into being, I will say the state that was in the spring. Then it was that just under 100 had municipalities to manage and the rest were private homes. And, of course, special care, which is purely a public service, but there are no problems with paying. Special care is state funding. A man's own pension is enough, plus what the state does.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U38	Thank you. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U39	Thank you. I, too, thank you for a very thorough and substantive report. But the question is this: how do you feel about having a similar care allowance for such a heavy, deep and medium disabled person across Estonia? So it's not like it's 15 euros in one county, 60 euros in another, and in some it's even 100 euros. I mean, middle or deep disability here. After all, today a carer often does not think that a person can stay in his home for as long as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U40	Thank you very much. There are countries where there is a separate law for caregivers, and this law regulates criteria for the amount of carer support, and this varies in degrees of severity. Very often, however, the need has been assessed so that there is no need for disability but a need for help. The aim is not for all elderly people to be severely or profoundly disabled, but for them to be that if a person has been judged to need help and has an inherent guardian, his or her work would be paid accordingly. I don't think he should be, or he shouldn't be, this subject is definitely worth discussing for everyone alike. This means that the income of a heavy, very deep and high-care care-giver should certainly be higher and that the care-giver who does the work with less care needs could be smaller, but this need for care has been assessed. But I get, good questioner, from your question, that you mean that there would still be common criteria across Estonia. I think it's very right that it shouldn't depend on where it lives. And, of course, it would be even better for the state to finance municipalities on the basis of the number of older people or the number of people with special needs and to remain a carer when it has been decided to do so. With the same money, it should be possible for the municipality to guarantee these services so that whoever is the caretaker today can actually go to work and deal with what he wants. And then, no doubt, to support and help his loved one, but it wouldn't be forced to choose. But yes, I believe that the state should establish a common standard on the basis of which it will be assessed and this support could then be the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U41	Good colleague Oudekki Loone! A question can be put to each of the rapporteurs on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U42	I'll answer you later.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U43	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U44	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for the great work that has been done here and has been passed on to us. Let me ask you a slightly different question. That's the question, if it were, what would happen. It turned out, in fact, that people of a certain age are in a very difficult and precarious situation. We want our life expectancy to rise, but how does that life span go on, quality of life and everything? If we were allowed to assist in suicide and euthanasia, how do you think many people today would be heading for this road because of this insecurity? I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U45	Thank you very much. I would like to say once again that there is neither the legitimisation of suicide nor its debate within the framework of this draft. But I would say that, in a situation where we lack money to ensure better social services and health care, to reduce queues, I would not like to open the subject of suicide in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U46	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U47	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I have listened and you have said that you believe that no local government provides open-air care. I don't think it's like that. I understand that maybe this level isn't that high, but I have different experiences. Or did I misunderstand?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U48	Thank you very much. I am pleased to say, and now in this Chamber, to explain that you have certainly misunderstood. Maybe I didn't explain it well, or maybe I answered it in a way that you had such an understanding. I certainly did not mean that because I myself have implemented the opening-up service in the Viljandi City Government in 1993 very strongly, seven days a week, bringing home warm food and all the other necessary services. I know that this is very well organised in Tartu, for example, has been organised in Tallinn and the services are more than the 13 mandatory which the Welfare Act imposes on local governments, including general care and general care. But I'm just saying that, unfortunately, it's not like that everywhere. If you're reading the explanatory note, I hope that I can find this place, this is very well highlighted by the problem of how much would really be needed. That is where it is right now: the greatest need is for home services, which are now available to 6617 people from the local government, if the real need were about 20,000 people. Perhaps there are no such services everywhere. In some places this is justified, there are great distances and it is difficult to arrange open-air care or to bring home warm food. There will then be a possible support person service or also a supported living. For example, in certain municipalities, it is even the case that during the winter period people come to live in such a supported residence and then go home in the summer. Of course, also the care of the family, maybe the neighbor's help next door. That my claim is that these services have been thought out by very many municipalities, and I think that in many cities it is not a problem either. It cannot be said that small municipalities are paying less attention to this. If you look at the Ministry of Social Affairs every year with a report, an overview by local governments, it is very often that a small municipality is well thought out and offers more services than these 13 compulsory and very many larger municipalities do not offer them. So it's different and it doesn't even depend very often on the size of the municipality. The same explanatory memorandum also stated that the general care service is offered to 12368 people today, but the real need would be 16400. So we're gonna live longer. As a number of ladies and gentlemen have said here, today the person who lives to be 120 has already been born. We live longer, and that's good! And we need to think this life would be humane. I don't even want to use the word "lifecycle" because the arc has a beginning and such a very falling end, but I would use the word "life cycle," because I really have seen a person who is relatively passive at 50 and like an old man, and I've seen a 100-year-old who said on his jubilee that the only concern is that he hears badly. Who was watching "Prillitos" I would like to invite you, this is a very nice show, when Reet Linna was talking to Heimar Leng, he said that he had been called on the radio by a 100-year-old. So these people are among us, whose state of health probably allows him to live at home, but not everyone is doing so well.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U49	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U50	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! In the case of children, we will undoubtedly support children with special educational needs and children with disabilities more than those who do not have this special need or disability. In the health care system, we do not say that family medical care is free, but who wants intensive care, for example, if someone needs a stroke, then only if the children can pay. But for some reason in social welfare, even if we can bring home warm food or provide these simple services, then in the case of nursing homes, in the case of people with the greatest need for help, we say that the condition for receiving aid is the availability of a sufficiently thick wallet. It's strange, it's disturbing. And my question is this: does it really seem to you that this is where the Riigikogu should now point?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U51	Thank you very much for the list you have brought! I will bring here another thought-provoking moment, which is very nicely referred to in the family law. In the case of raising children, it is still the same family law that parents are obliged to raise children, and vice versa that children are then obliged to care for parents. I'm not talking about the care that love, tenderness, we're talking about the care right now, because that's the subject, the payment. Let us think about children going to kindergarten and in kindergarten we have decided at law level that the municipality can charge up to 20% of the minimum wage for the so-called "place fee," plus more food money. In the case of the elderly, we do not have such conditions. The charge is the same as it is then according to the number [to be maintained], the quality of the service, according to luxury, comfort, the amount of equipment. And actually, a lot of nursing homes work like this, there's so many places. This cost will be shared between the people who receive this service, and it will become more appropriate. In the case of children, we take it for granted that this is the responsibility of the municipality. And the other way around, in the case of the elderly, we say that this is the responsibility of children and grandchildren. I think it's unfair. In fact, as I said in the report, we treat these people differently, or those who have children, and those who do not have children. If there are no children, there is no doubt that the municipality will play a role if the person does not have the means and opportunities. It is the responsibility of children or grandchildren who have children. So I would like to thank you for this question and I think that the Riigikogu could forward this draft to the government that it will start working on this issue in a timetable. This does not have to happen all on 1 January 2021, but from 1 January 2021 there should be at least some steps that will be taken in 2021 and will be done in a row, because only the trick will not solve this problem. We are ready to come here to help because there is a deadline for amendments to the state budget. We are doing our part to make it easier for the government to do so, and I also call on good colleagues to support this bill. Fifty-one votes, fellas!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U52	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I now request Signe Riisalo, member of the Social Affairs Committee, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U53	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much to Mr Hunt for his very thorough presentation of the draft and thank you very much to all colleagues who asked very relevant questions in the Chamber. The subject is not new. The subject concerns very many of us, our family members, and if it does not today, it will start tomorrow. Believe me. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed this draft twice. First of all, it is important to know that the deadline for amendments was 8 September, including no amendments. On 21 September, the Commission discussed the draft with invited representatives from the Ministry of Social Affairs. The debate revealed that, of course, the Ministry of Social Affairs will also continue to deal with this issue. But the work of the Ministry of Social Affairs is mainly related to the development of different pieces, and this whole concept is currently not planned until next November in the form of an intention to develop, which will only be followed by legislative changes. The second debate took place in the Committee on Social Affairs on 19 October as a follow-up debate. There, too, must be acknowledged, there was no confrontation among the Members of the Commission, and it was a consensual decision to bring the draft to the final vote in plenary today and to appoint Signe Riisalo as rapporteur for the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U54	Thank you. You have questions too. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U55	Thank you. I continue to be very pleased that this issue is being raised. It can also be seen that it was already useful to have the Ministry dealt with this very much more strongly. Perhaps you could shed a little more light on the fact that, when there was a meeting with the ministry in the Commission, what are the different pieces that are being dealt with, how is the overall plan that will come next November? Did the Members of the Commission find that November is too late or why it is too late? Was there a debate on this? And if it was, it could be enlightened.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U56	I'm gonna start answering your questions from the back, if that's okay. And I will start with the fact that Tõnis Mölder, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, confirmed at the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee that at the Congress of the Centre Party, the earlier draft of the Social Democrats and the package of topics as a whole were actually discussed. So the question is obviously important to all parties, including your party, which gives me great, great joy. The Ministry of Social Affairs last time represented Lemme Palme, a welfare officer who provided us with the following information. The Ministry of Social Affairs actually has proposals in one way or another in the work. More important than the proposals, he pointed out, were the development of a standard of living, i.e. the setting of a limit on income, a further debate on who, when and how much this maintenance obligation should be borne, in the case of the group of second-degree descendants and ascendants. The intention to develop this draft law is expected to be completed by May 2021. But clearly, it's only a small part of this circle of obligations, a series of commitments, not an aid package as such. Ms Lemme Palmet further explained that the plans for development are also planned on a number of other issues arising from the decision taken by the Government of the Republic on 30 January, which was already presented by the previous speaker. Work will continue in the light of the long-term maintenance memorandum. So far, three different models have been proposed, with a model of partnership on the surface, which means the joint responsibility of the state and the person themselves and their maintenance relatives for their services and the need to pay for them. The aim is to accurately describe the content of the partnership model. In addition, he named the support package for the informal caretakers, together with all possible proposals, which will be completed by the Ministry in its original form by November next year. Those were the pieces we were talking about. And if we think about the full content of this draft we are discussing today, which covers all these different aspects and tries to give the government the responsibility to develop a comprehensive solution, then obviously the Ministry's action plans are perhaps not so well coordinated.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U57	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I had a full déjà-vu feeling when I was listening to you. I myself in the Committee on Culture and also in the area of education, we in the Reform Party. Just as you said here that new developments are already taking place in the Ministry, there is cooperation, there are already prospects, which are already very much in line with this bill. Do you think these things will finally be done, or will they just talk about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U59	With regard to long-term care needs and solutions to their concerns, including the problem of informal care providers, they must be ready. The question is when. There is, in fact, a discussion about whether we are going to postpone the year and two of the solutions or, as the draft under discussion says, we are going to wait for a comprehensive solution in the first month of next year in order to move forward with the implementation activities. We are not in a position to push long-term care problems into being resolved, because we know that in our society, in the next decades, there will be very significant changes in the proportion of the working-age population compared to older people who have a greater need for care and support. It's something society has to maintain. Our task is to prevent the need for care from growing to such an extent that a person needs to be placed in institutional care. We must then find solutions that will help a person to cope, either independently or with support, in the home environment, adapted to the home. We have no choice; we have to find these solutions. Not to mention that we are already regrettably away from the labour market today from those who care for their loved ones and whose contribution would be more beneficial to all of us if they could give it to the labour market, not just by doing care work at home. And the last bad news about all this is that carers are mostly women.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U60	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U61	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! This is a topic that echoes in every Estonian municipality when it comes to meeting people and regardless of age to meet. The importance of this issue has, I say, been understood by the younger people. My question still concerns once more the course of the debate on this particular draft. The lead committee is the Social Affairs Committee, you are a member of this committee, you have presented us with a fine presentation of the debate, but it is our own internal order that the lead committee proposes to support or not to support the large Chamber here. It seems to me that this proposal has not been made at the moment. Did the chairman of the committee ask the Commission what the Commission's proposal would be in the Chamber? Because it may seem like a small question, but it is appropriate that the Commission should recommend to the Chamber whether or not to support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U62	Yes, first of all, I repeat that the Commission's decision was consensual and that the vote was actually on bringing the draft to plenary today and the final vote. The Commission did not take a position and the Commission did not propose a position by the Commission leader.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U63	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Let's open the negotiations. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U64	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise has its 2018/2019. In the 2005 review, "The understanding of dignified ageing cannot be summed up in a single sentence. For some, this means being able to work at a high age or to be an active member of the community. Some others have a bearing on income and economic security. The third one values health and joy of life and wants to decide for himself what happens to him in the event of a serious illness. The fourth estimate is that ageing well will be ensured by a well-functioning and funded care home system." Yeah, you can't avoid aging. Man is unique in every age, and age and old age require more than pills and a clean bed. Yet, in order to feel valued and kept, we also need to be sure that help is always there when needed. Here it is quite appropriate to recall the Postimees editorial from a few years ago, where we read: "Most of the troubled attitudes come from the thinking of "not happening to me'. Unfortunately, it does happen, and one thing is pretty sure we're all getting old. Estonian society is ageing, in these conditions we must pay more attention to a dignified evening of life at the level of the state and local governments, but also in the private sector. This is not as short-term slogan political promises, but as well-considered strategic decisions. " The draft decision of the Socialists offers sustainable solutions. After all, no one denies that we have many problems in long-term care and that we do not solve them by raising the pension of a few-thirty euros a year. The burden on family members is immense, both in caring and in paying for care services. Access to the service is increasingly dependent on the solvency of the user of the service. The public sector in Estonia spends too little on long-term care compared to other EU Member States, approximately 0.2 to 0.4% of GDP. The European Commission's report has repeatedly highlighted the underfunding of our nursing homes, the scarcity of places and the unfairly high price level compared to the average pension. There is great poverty among older people. The population is aging. The proportion of people aged 65 and over is projected to increase to nearly 26% of the population by 2040. Together with the ageing of society, the number of people in need of care is increasing. There are tens of thousands of people living in Estonia who have to arrange long-term care for their loved ones. It is estimated that 13 000 have therefore been excluded from the labour market. Older people's pensions are not enough to pay for living in a nursing home. At the same time, an elderly person has worked his whole life and paid taxes, so he or she must have access to a nursing home where necessary for his or her own pension. The state, together with local authorities, must ensure the necessary medical and care services so that older people can manage independently for as long as possible. The system needs to be changed so that the family does not have exclusive responsibility. In developed countries, care insurance usually works or the amount of the person's own pension is taken into account, with sufficient allowance being left in the nursing home. It is not appropriate for a child or grandson to live his or her life so that a loved one can die with dignity. Good fellows! We cannot escape the reform of the welfare system. In the coming years, the number of people in need of care will increase exponentially, and services will become more expensive. We are here, under the leadership of the Social Democrats, in this large Chamber of the Riigikogu... Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U65	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U66	... repeatedly discussed the subject of informal care, making proposals to improve the situation. Both in this year's state budget and in the supplementary budget, we have tabled an amendment to ensure that the person has a nursing home for his own pension. The state, together with the municipalities, would pay the price difference. We need to develop a modern and comprehensive care system that will allow the elderly to cope as long as possible at home and, if necessary, to live in a nursing home for their pension. According to different calculations, this would cost the State EUR 40.50 million per year. The Socialist request is to support our draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U67	Thank you. Urmas Espenberg on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U68	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The subject seems rather unsexy, very few people are in the hall, but still. A very grateful and very important question has been raised. The idea is noble, and I was also in favour of it reaching the hall so that it would attract greater attention from society. However, unfortunately, we are at the heart of the corona crisis and the financial resources for voting in favour of this draft at the moment, in my opinion, are simply not enough. Just a few more moments. Older people and people with disabilities are very different. There are also those who really need 24 hours of care. Imagine, then, the people of the person who can't work, nothing to do. His whole life revolves around this sick person or old man. I've talked to a lot of pensioners, and no one wants to leave home. The vast majority have said that they would like to be home. So to help them at home, it went through here too, it's the right direction. My mom's 88 and she's doing really well at home, and she says she's not leaving. See, see, see. Health is more or less now. Then one more moment. Pensioners also have dignity like all of us, and they would like to pay for this place, even if it were own. So no one's asked me to pay for everything. Of course, when we talk about this care home thing, we don't have a socialist state, we can't just write down 53 million. Rather here is that there are public nursing homes and then there are those that have been transformed into business, so there are pretty crisp prices. But EKRE has always oppressed family values, and one of our recommendations is that the family stay together so that the children don't wander the streets alone and then go to a psychiatrist. Grandparents help to raise them, and then later, children and grandchildren will help to support them. Those who talked about Finland here, Finland, have their own problems. There is also a dispute between local governments and the state, but unfortunately we are not among the five richest countries in Europe. Quite the opposite. The second problem we have is that our geographical position requires constant protection costs, and because we also protect the external borders of the European Union, additional costs will also be incurred. Some solutions. I support the view that home is the best place for people. And if local authorities help as much as they can, it would be good. Here they asked if there was one good example. Yes, Nõmme district offers an effective assessment of the needs of the elderly, food aid, medical supplies. Nõmme area... Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U69	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U70	... offers a doctor's service, which is 4 euros back and forth in the Nõmme region and if it is outside Nõmme, then 8 euros. So one positive example at least I have here to offer. And you can't get over or around the money. One should seriously consider either health insurance or combine it with pension insurance, where both the state, the person and businesses would participate. That would be all for short. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U71	Thank you. On behalf of the High Everaus Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U72	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Life starts at one point, and we all know that at one point he's going where he's going. We don't know how or how. And the way in which we value every person in society at every point in life, I loved it, Helmen, your saying that it is not a arch, but a road, it is very important. It shows what our society is like. If, like, it's better that we're out of sight, we're doing what he should have done a long time ago. It's about money, but not just or not mainly about money. It's about how we feel. How we view each and every one of us, so do we. So I think it's all about attitude, you find money, and the greatest wealth is every person of all ages. All we can do is support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U73	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 244 on the draft, and we are going to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group "Proposaling the Government of the Republic to develop legislative changes to solve the problem of long-term care burden" 224. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U74	35 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, no respondents and no abstentions. The draft was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U75	Let's keep going. Today's third item is the second reading of Vilja Toomasti, Andres Suti, Signe Kivi, Signe Riisalo, Andrus Seed, Annely Akkermanni, Yoko Alender, Mart Võrgulaat, Liina Kersna, Jüri Jaanson, Toomas Kivimägi, Kaja Kallas, member of the Government of the Republic and Riigikogu, and the draft law amending the Estonian Flag Act 277. I request Mr Kallas, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U76	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, It's such a great bill now. If you remember, everyone had exactly the same idea at the exact same time, and then there were three drafts that were the same. Now we have reached the point that these three drafts are combined into one draft and we have one draft law amending the Holidays and Holidays Act and the Estonian Flag Act. At the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which took place on 20 October 2020, we discussed how to do all this, how to combine these things. I would not go into the details here, as far as the legal, technical side is concerned, but in any case the result was that, since all the representatives of the initiators agreed and because the subject of regulation overlapd, these drafts were merged. This was an amendment that everyone supported. The second amendment, which gave rise to confusion, was the proposal, which also concerned grandparents' day. There was confusion about the fact that the text was already in [the draft]. But in the end, I would not even start bringing this whole debate down here, because this proposal, which already existed, was fully counted again, so that double does not rumble, and it was done in a similar consensual manner. In conclusion, the Commission's decisions to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, second, to propose the termination of the second reading, and thirdly, when the second reading is closed, to put it on the plenary agenda for the third reading and to hold a final vote on 11 November 2020 and to appoint me, who was also the rapporteur for the draft at first reading. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U77	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? Yes, it is. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U78	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good guardians of the Republic! This is such a strange legislative practice, which actually makes us, as ambassadors, all of us with independent thinking ability, seem rather odd. At this point, I would now address civil society, which always has some ideas: if you have an idea, set it off somewhere in the second week of January. Then, when the ambassadors come, you're gonna have to eat this Christmas full of good-rights, and there ain't gonna be no sense in it. They open their mailbox and they see that wow! Here it is, let's do it, sounds just like our idea. I like kids. Good children, they grow without a sprain, love helps them live. We have agreed that June 1 is Child Welfare Day. That's how he was when we were occupying him. Yes, it was, of course, a major important congress where it was then decided, both in Moscow and in other places, that it should be introduced on that date. At the same time, we are currently the President-in-Office of the United Nations, and it treats Child Welfare Day as another day. I don't want you to change your mind here when you've found that this is your personal idea, and you've always wanted me to wish that this day could be... For me, it's just a red holiday. For me, it is simply a matter of perpetuating the occupation, as we have already celebrated 1 May. Yeah, well, we've celebrated 9th of May, it's even got a name for itself. Now he's Europe Day. Even the day of Tallinn's demolition has now been handled in such a way that he is the day of our resistance fight. It's just that everyone's got something. I guess I wouldn't be here if I didn't say I didn't support that approach. That's my opinion, take it or leave it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U79	Thank you. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U80	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! Today, with the number 277 of the draft law amending the Holidays and Deadlines Act and the Estonian Flag Act, the Act was initiated for three almost the same purposes in 131, the initiators of the Reform Party members, 132, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, and 172, as a result of the merger of the Bill initiated by the Government of the Republic. With the agreement of the originators, the draft is combined due to the overlap of the subject matter of regulation. That would be the end of my speech, but I cannot. It is incredible that it has taken almost 10 months for such a simple but also symbolic reason that 1 June, child protection day, would be a national date and flag day. When the Social Democrats initiated a draft law amending the Holidays and Holidays Act and the Estonian Flag Act on 13 January, the Government of the Republic initiated a similar draft on 6 April. True, with an additional proposal to consider the second Sunday of September as the flag day, the grandparents' day. The draft law submitted on 13 January was, regrettably, not discussed until 10 March. Then the bill was kept waiting for the Government of the Republic to initiate its own draft of the same name and form. Instead, the Ministry of Social Affairs, through the Commission, could have included grandparents' day as the flag day in the draft. The Constitutional Committee brought these three drafts to the first reading of the Riigikogu's large hall only on 13 May. Although if there had been a wish that we could have celebrated both the Day of Child Welfare and the Day of Grandparents with dignity and flags this year, it would have been feasible. At a press conference held in May, the Prime Minister said that this year the flags would be waving on Children's Day. True, he was believed only by the media of Tallinn City Government, who also wrote about Children's Protection Day as a flag day on 1 June. This error was quickly corrected when I turned to the question on which they rely, because the draft laws were only expected to become a law in the Riigikogu. This year was not June 1st, Child Protection Day, nor was it a national date, nor was it a flag day, despite the fact that already on December 30th, 2019, at the end of last year, 19 organisations approached the five political parties represented in the Riigikogu and the Social Affairs Committee together. In the interests of the protocol, the names of those who turn to them are also given: the Association of Estonian Replacement Home Workers, the Association of Estonian Open Youth Centres, the Association of Estonian Children's Educators, the Estonian Association of Children's Rich Families, the Association of Estonian Youth Associations, the Association of Estonian Social Work, the Association of Estonian Mental Health and Well-being, the Association of Estonian Students' Association, the Association of Estonian Students' Associations, the Association of Estonian Children's Families, the Estonian Association of Estonian Youth Associations, the Estonian Association of Evangelical Lutheran Church Family Centre, the SEB Foundation for Charity, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Student Union of the University of Tartu and the Association of Free Associations. This year, neither was Grandparent's Day the flag day. I'm really sorry about all this. More important was who did it, not what was done, and also the opportunity to do it together. Another stumbling block in handling opposition drafts was the fact that the performers were wrong. I very much hope that the new, combined draft will, however, become a law, and this will be done sooner than the letter of the year's turners, and next year, Child Protection Day will be the national anniversary and flag day and the flag day of the grandparents' day, as the national anniversary is the day of the grandparents. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U81	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. The negotiations are therefore closed. Two amendments have been tabled. The first amendment, tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is the position of the lead committee to take full account of. The second amendment, tabled by Mr Kütt, is the position of the lead committee to take full account of. We have also examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 277. That concludes the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U82	Let's keep going. Today's fourth and final item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. I ask Riigikogu member Ivari Padari as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U83	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Today's Income Tax Act gives one distinction. This is as follows: the self-employed person may deduct up to an additional amount of EUR 2877 from the proceeds of the disposal of the unprocessed agricultural products produced by the self-employed person, from which the deductions referred to in paragraph 1 have been made, during the tax period. It's one of the right long-term benefits. I think it started in 1999, more than 20 years ago, and at that time it was 45000 Estonian kroons. Over time, this tax credit has also been granted to forest owners, forest sellers, at the same time. It came into force in 2009, as I recall. When the crisis measures were discussed this year, the advantage that can be deducted from income was extended to EUR 5000 for forest owners who are self-employed and to forest owners who are simply natural persons. At the same time, the other party concerning self-employed persons and natural persons engaged in agriculture was excluded. The draft we have tabled is from this proposal that, in the same way as forestry, the income from the disposal of agricultural products produced by self-employed persons in agriculture, from which the deductions referred to in paragraph 1 have been made, can be further deducted during the tax period up to EUR 5000. The idea is simple: to get a corresponding discount from this year's revenues. How many of these people are there? Today, there are 3,800 self-employed workers who would benefit from this advantage in agriculture. In particular, it is intended for those farmers with small-scale family farms. The smaller size of the family farm comes together with small details. Well, yesterday, we discussed the organic farming law and the organic farming law to favour smaller producers, on the other hand, this tax exemption will provide some additional opportunities. So the proposal is in front of you, and I ask you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U84	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. I now ask for Mr Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U85	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 19 October, the Committee on Finance discussed the preparation of a draft law amending the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, for first reading. The purpose of the Act is to allow an additional deduction of up to EUR 5 000 instead of EUR 2877 from the proceeds of the disposal of agricultural products produced by self-employed persons and natural persons. Riina Sikkut presented the draft and Helena Lehti presented the position of the Government of the Republic. The Commission made the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on Tuesday, 27 October, including the proposal to terminate the first reading and to set 10 working days, i.e. 10 November at 5.15 p.m., in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. The chairman of the committee was appointed rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-27_U86	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you either. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 213. The first reading is closed and I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 10 November at 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's agenda and closes the session. Thank you and see you tomorrow!
