ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-20_U1	Good morning, actually, this afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the Monday session of the second working week of the third session of the Riigikogu. First of all, is there a desire to hand over drafts and inquiries? In any case, Mrs Heili Tõnisson has the floor on behalf of the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-20_U2	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching three draft laws today. First, the bill to amend the law on liquid fuel reserves. The Government of the Republic is represented in Taavi Aas, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure in the Riigikogu when the bill is being processed. Secondly, the draft law amending the Law on the Courts and the Law on the Prosecutor's Office. The Government of the Republic is represented by Raivo Aeg, Minister of Justice, when this bill is being processed in the Riigikogu. And thirdly, the draft law amending the Aliens Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by Mart Helme, the Minister of the Interior, when processing this bill in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-20_U3	It seems that there is no further wish to pass on the drafts and enquiries. Then I will inform you that I have adopted three drafts on behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu and the Management Board will decide how to deal with them in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Now, let's do the presence check. 89 members of the Riigikogu are present and there is no 12. The next item is the adoption of the agenda. I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the second working week of the III plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 83 votes against, 0 abstentions and 3 members of the Riigikogu to approve the agenda. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-20_U4	Honourable Riigikogu! Today we do not have any points on the agenda, but, on the other hand, all those who wish to do so will have the opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after the hammer hit. Speaking time is five minutes. Siret Eagle, please! [[It's buzzing in the hall.]] Colleagues, please be quiet! [[It's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-20_U5	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The number of people in Estonia has fallen drastically in recent decades. The main reason for this is the low birth rate. Women either postpone giving birth or end up giving it up in the first place. As a result, tens of thousands of children have not been born since the 1990s. Many people leave Estonia to go to work or school abroad. In addition, the average age of people is rising as the elderly are growing. The population crisis cannot be resolved in one or two years, as can be done with the economic crisis, rather it will take generations. However, I am very pleased to note today that according to the latest data, the number of Estonian population is on the rise. Yes, at the expense of migration, fewer people leave Estonia than comes back or from other countries, but the number of births is also better than expected. It certainly has a role to play in reconciling work and family life, such as our flexible parental benefit system and increasing the support of the third child. Estonia's population is growing for the third year in a row. However, I believe that we must not rely on good luck, but we must move forward. Up to now, the central authority has focused on the number of children, so contributing to the environment supporting the creation, rearing and development of the family has remained in the background. Not enough single parents or uninsured people and families raising children with disabilities have been noticed. At the same time, it is these families that are most in need of economic and spiritual support from the state. In the future, there will also be a need to provide a wide range of counselling and therapy services, so that families can overcome difficulties more quickly and more easily, and family relationships with both parents and relationships with their children will not harm family members. Yes, Estonia has done a lot to reconcile work and family life, but now it is time to move forward, because more needs to be done to increase population on a natural basis. Success in raising the population of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-20_U6	Thank you. Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-20_U7	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to acknowledge the government of the Republic of Estonia and the Ministry of Economic Affairs for the newly prepared road-saving plan in the Riigikogu. This is a good thing to do today on the supposedly most depressing day of the year, as was the case with today's news, so why not balance depression with good emotion? This plan has finally set very clear targets for the construction of the main roads (2 + 2), not in the distant future, but in the next ten years. This is no longer a fine-tuning exercise, but a concrete action to make Estonia move towards a European standard of living. Like I said, it's not fine-tuning. When I was driving from Pärnumaa to work this morning, I had to ride on the so-called train of cars after a lot of freight cars. Unfortunately, such following one another creates traffic risks because drivers become nervous and take increasingly riskier maneuvers. Today, there were some situations that made the armpits wet. Between us we say that whoever gets home on the Pärnu highway with dry armpits hasn't driven right. I remember the story of an American investor who rented a car at Tallinn Airport in the 1990s to travel to Pärnu as a potential place where he wanted to invest. On the way back, the journalists asked him about it, in reply, that he had not felt much greater fear of death in his life than when driving to Tallinn on the Pärnu highway. In its 2019/2023 action programme, the Government of the Republic has set itself the goal of building the main road towards Pärnu and dust-free gravel roads in 2030, which I especially like. In Pärnu County, a hard cover of more than 42 kilometres of gravel is available for four years. That's a good improvement, because who wants to live in the dust? There are many beautiful areas in Pärnu County where people would like to live or visit as tourists. Some have chosen another living environment with a dust-free aspect in mind. On behalf of the Pärnumaans, I will also express my thanks for the Rail Baltic project, as well as for the renewal perspective of Pärnu airport, which is already in a very tangible future. Pärnu is a well-known summer capital, but has so far been more difficult to access than many similar places in the nearby region. New ways of reaching Pärnu will increase the attractiveness and benefits of the city as well as its immediate surroundings for communities, be they tourism companies, including so-called forest tourism companies, entertainment establishments, catering or accommodation facilities. To sum it up. The connection and travel of Pärnumaa residents within Estonia to neighbouring countries will become much more comfortable and secure in the near future. Thank you very much for these successful steps. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-20_U8	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, You have the opportunity to use the free microphone until 24:00. But I guess there's no wish. Then the hearing is adjourned. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 3.11.
