ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U1	Good morning, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Honourable ministers! Let's start our Wednesday briefing. As usual, let's start with the presence check. 17 members of the Riigikogu are present and 84 are absent. The following members of the government will take part in Question Time this time: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg and Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. As usual, first the members of the pre-registered Riigikogu can ask the question, then the questioners will become a question specifying the right and then one question from the hall. There are two minutes to ask the question and three minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U2	The first is the opportunity to ask a question on Urve Tiidus and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! The Estonian people have been fully understanding the rules and limitations of the emergency situation caused by the pandemic, the situation and teleworking have quickly been adapted, the resulting stress and social isolation have been dealt with, in the vast majority. I'm sure it's all contributed to the fact that there hasn't been an explosive infection. Every day, however, people are asking more and more often who, in their own sense, who out loud, when it all ends, when the restrictions, when the economy opens up, trade, stop rising unemployment, the accumulation of social problems will disappear. And is it a simple question for islanders: when will you get back to the mainland like the people of Võru and Tartu? In short, when can you return to a normal life? As usual, opinions are broadly divided into two parts. Some say, don't rush what it does for a few more weeks, as long as there's no infection. Others have urgent business and private life and cannot wait any longer. Signs of impatience are in the air, and countries behave differently here. Estonia has been talking about an exit strategy for several days. Prime Minister, please, without diplomacy and specifically what decisions have been taken on the coming days and weeks in relation to the exit strategy, and also what level of priority is the relaunch of the economy in this process.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! First of all, I agree with the assessment you give to the people of Estonia. Indeed, this pattern of behaviour and compliance with the rules has still been good in a very large majority, if not very good. I am also relying here on the meeting of the Government Crisis Committee on 21 April, where Professor Irja Lutsar and the Scientific Advisory Board participated. It also turned out that the outbreak of the corona virus in Estonia as of 20 April, when we look at such a line or trend, has been heading downwards since 12 March. This is, of course, positive. You asked me when this was all gonna end. I think I'm the biggest supporter of this, so that it ends as soon as possible, at this Question Time, could end. Unfortunately, these numbers for this outbreak do not show that we can finish this at Question Time today. The truth is that we have worked very fundamentally on a strategy to exit the outbreak of COVID-19. We have come quite close to conveying this information to both the Riigikogu and the public and interest groups and discussing it in the coming days. Anyone who doesn't want to discuss it will take note of the information. I guess these approaches are different here. I think that, at the beginning of next week, the government should also approve this once and for all. Inside there are very clear metrics, even at the last meeting with the Scientific Advisory Board, we added one more metric, this is the number of infected in the 50+ age group, which needs to be measured, and just to measure that the 14-day total number of cases must be less than the peak or equal to the vertex. This peak in the 50+ age group was 476 on 6 April. The answer to your question about when to get to Saaremaa, when to become to Hiiumaa will still depend specifically on the withdrawal of this outbreak. I will continue to follow the principle that you have to measure it nine times before you cut it once. But it's clear that we're on the way to this phase of mitigation or opening. I think that some restrictions may even be alleviated this month, I mean April, but mostly it will be in May. There are certainly some restrictions that apply even longer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U5	Urve Tiidus, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U6	Thank you very much. I'll make a small correction first. My question was, when do islanders get to the mainland, of course, on the contrary. But the pace of this whole process is very different. Today, news came out to the public that Oxford University will start experiments on COVID vaccine tomorrow, in a small number, of course, and will be ready to come out at the end of the summer at a million doses if this test to be started tomorrow succeeds. It shows there's hope. But I'm still asking you to be more specific. According to the information in the media, the emergency government committee and the scientific council discussed yesterday, and they are probably still discussing how and when the restrictions will be relaxed. Is it possible that tomorrow at the Government of the Republic's meeting, on the basis of these recommendations, some kind of decision will be confirmed as to whether this special situation will last for another two weeks or a month, or how do you think this process will take place? Secondly, I repeat this supplementary question to the first question. What level of priority do you often use this word for 'economic revival'? Several questions, but I'm sure we'll get an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U7	But I am not at all upset that there are several questions, these are very specific questions for you and also very necessary questions. Let's get started. You're talking about an Oxford University report on the development of a vaccine. These are very positive messages. I think today the whole world is working hard to get a) a vaccine and b) a cure. I believe that when we are talking about overcoming the final outbreak of the COVID-19 outbreak, it is these two that we need: we must be absolutely convinced that we have a vaccine and that we also have good medicines. Estonia, too, is actually making a modest contribution to the development of both of them. We've supported a little bit, as far as we have the strength, I mean, financially supported scientists, universities. There was also a specific question during the discussion with the Scientific Advisory Board, I think the Minister of Finance asked whether the additional budget of 4 million adopted by the Riigikogu, if I am not mistaken, would help the tertiary biolab in Tartu. Mr Merits said it would help very much to see that they have been looking forward to it. Now, priority step. Yes, if this scheme is finally getting such, say, framework, then we will definitely ask for your feedback, as well as the feedback of the members of the Riigikogu. I have a request that it be sent to all members of the Riigikogu. This is really such an initial order of time and priority. If you wait or want to find specific dates and times in this plan, you will not find them. Here are two things: the restoration of scheduled treatment yesterday, and the second is what we have agreed in the field of education on 15 May. The preliminary assessment will be by the Scientific Advisory Board on 28 April and 5 May. But basically, yes, all these steps we have put priority on how mitigation and exit from the outbreak should take place. What am I saying? Certain special conditions, for example the same 2+2 rule, personal protective equipment for workers, will certainly remain in force when we talk about the opening of shopping centres, which is important, and the disinfection requirement. So this scheme has been brought out here with a very thorough degree of detail in this respect. But yes, if the desire or the idea is to find specific dates here, then surely such a plan, I think, no one can give up today, because in the end, health and life is still the number one, and that depends on how this virus and the outbreak behave.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U8	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U9	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I also have a very specific question. In press publications, we can read an overview of what Mart and Martin Helme had to do with their radio programme on the weekend, about supporting the press during the crisis by the state. 'We were extremely reluctant, extremely reluctant, and very reluctant to this day. But, well, here's a little sausage for the sausage. I'm not going to count exactly what sausage we got against us now, but we did. And our sausages are thicker,' he said about the trade in media support at the Helme Coalition. And my question is, what kind of sausage and how thick do coalition parties share in the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U10	Thank you. Of course, there has been no such distribution and no principle of sharing, it is out of the question, even during this crisis. Speaking of the press, it is quite appropriate to say that the press has been an extremely important cooperation partner, that the press has been a very important fourth power throughout this crisis, that it has done a professional and very good job to make these rules known to the population, and that it has also made sure that if you act like this, we will be able to stop the outbreak. I consider the work of the press to be very professional and very good. In particular, I would like to highlight the part of the private media that has really been a very good communicator and carrier of information with its online news and major portals. For example, ETV+'s very strong upward trend in the number of viewers, which also shows a strong increase in confidence, is certainly positive. The press has sent their address, there have been different aspects. One aspect really was home delivery support. The story is that the advertising market has fallen away, and if we want the news to continue to go in newspapers to people's mailboxes, this support should be given. We decided then that this could be estimated to be 50% per month, which is EUR 150000, for a total of EUR 450000 over three months. The press has also mentioned that the fall in VAT on digital publications from 20% to 9% has been the right direction. I am also pleased that the Riigikogu really supported it, so thank you for this work. I think it's important. What else has been said? It has been said that more could be involved in campaigns and in informing the population about the association of media companies, which we have also agreed on. I also have to say to Urve Tiidu that this aspect of the emergency that you asked about, yes, it will come to the debate tomorrow. My proposal is to prolong the emergency situation today. How long to extend it? Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, we'll discuss it. I think if we do that, it can be a minimum of two weeks.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U11	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U12	Now Lauri Läänemets asks and answers Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is about Saaremaa and the spread of the COVID-19 virus in Saaremaa. As we know, Saaremaa in Estonia is the point that has suffered the most from this virus, there are very many people in the hospital, the economy of Saaremaa is standing completely and, unfortunately, very many people have died. Today's Äripäev highlights certain correspondence concerning an Italian [networkball team] game, which, we know, took place in Saaremaa, and the fact that both the Saaremaa Municipality Government and the volleyball players themselves examined from the Ministry of Social Affairs whether it makes sense to do this game and also pointed out that the Italians come from a region where the virus is very widespread. All this correspondence has been published on business day and it reads: 'On 27 February the Working Party chaired by the Ministry of Social Affairs adopted a general position according to which, in the current situation, the restriction or prohibition of cultural events and sporting events in relation to the spread of the COVID-19 virus is not considered justified. ' And there were other such suggestions, but the general, concrete and very well understood answer is that the Ministry did not recommend that this game be abandoned. My question to you is this: please give your assessment of the answer that Saaremaa and the volleyball players received.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U14	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Thank you for your question. When we go back to the period you referred to, on 27 February the working group discussed, in principle, the banning of all public events. Indeed, in a situation where there was a known infected person in Estonia, the cross-ministerial group, which belonged to me, said more than half of the Estonian ministries, did not consider this step proportionate at the time. This group did not discuss the Saaremaa volleyball tournament separately. The truth is that by the Municipality of Saaremaa, I will now say in memory, the Deputy Mayor of February 28, by letter to the Chancellor of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Marika Prisku. We spoke with him on this subject, and on 29 February, the Chancellor, in turn, forwarded this letter to the Health Board, which has the authority to evaluate the organisation of events, and also issued a recommendation rather than to organise the game. It was also our ministry's position back then. Regrettably, it happened that there were different opinions within the Health Board and a somewhat more lenient response, which referred to different health requirements, safety requirements, but there was no direct recommendation or even less a ban on organising this event. As a hindsight now, knowing all these events that have evolved over a month and a half, it can be said, of course, that this game should not have been organised. But, more broadly, the spread of the virus to Estonia, as well as the arrival in Saaremaa, there have been a wide range of "infectious" lesions, sources of infection. We have charted a hundred people in the order of magnitude who have brought this virus to Estonia. I have said before that it has actually been brought most from Austria, then Italy and about half of the people, or 50, have brought it from nearly 20 countries around the world. Perhaps the corona virus has reached all Estonian counties, it would have reached it even if this volleyball tournament had not been held. It is clear, however, that the spread of the virus on the ground in Saaremaa would have been slower if this event had not taken place and many other public events, which came into existence precisely during the same period, when the virus might have spread more intensively in Estonia. The ban on public events reached the government table and the decision on the evening of 12 March, when the state of emergency was also announced. But I would say that, on the one hand, I understand this search for guilty people, it is done on very many fronts showing different directions, but it doesn't provide anything afterwards, because we know that this virus has spread around the world to large countries, small countries, large islands, small islands. In retrospect, I think no country can say that it made all the right decisions, that all the agencies made all the right decisions. There has never been a country like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U15	Lauri West Forest, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U16	Thank you very much for your answer. It is now much clearer that this was, however, an error in the movement of information which led to the wrong recommendation being made out of the Health Board. I'll keep asking. On Monday, the Mayor of Saaremaa Madis Kallas announced his resignation. He reasoned as follows: "The local government also formed its position on the basis of the information received from us. As Head of the Municipality Government, I was unable to assess the situation critically enough at that point in time and to disprove the information I had received. That's why it's right that I resign as a parish elder. ' The municipality of Saaremaa also based its position on the views of this working group and the Health Board, or at least on the information they had received, according to which it was not considered justified to restrict major events and specifically the volleyball game of Saaremaa, which the Ministry was asked about and on which the Health Board replied. Please tell me that if the mayor found that he must resign for what has happened in Saaremaa, what thoughts you have when you remember and now think about your administrative decisions and the events of Saaremaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U17	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U18	Thank you. Mr. Swing! I've never heard experts say it's volleyball, but it's said it's party sickness. There was a manly big alcohol party in Saaremaa a few days later. So we really should not, especially given that the source of this virus is not, above all, Italy, to be smart afterwards. I'm glad you don't do this, you don't blame anyone for the wisdom of the hindsight, not even the Health Board who's under your jurisdiction. We really aren't as smart in the past as we are in the present. But tell me what this government is doing. We heard here again the day before yesterday that the government has initiated an investigation into the activities of a member of the Riigikogu who is involved in volleyball and is therefore involved in in infecting people. This has also been argued by one of the government's voice that the opposition party and a particular Member are spreading from coronavir. What kind of investigation do you have in the government? I don't think it's a joke, there must be some kind of understandable message. You can't just go on charges like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U19	Thank you for your question. First of all, I very much agree with your comment. That is so, it is not only the wisdom of the Health Board, but the wisdom of the World Health Organisation, the European Union, the so-called international associations, that it really is a disease of such events, parties, social activities. Just as viruses usually do, when we talk about human-based viruses that move from person to person, they naturally move when there is close contact, being in a limited space together. Unfortunately, this is exactly the same for all other viruses. In this sense, I strongly agree that, if you imagine that without this single event, the Estonian world map would now have a white spot, it will certainly not be a smug. As far as this letter is concerned, no, it is not a decision of the Government of the Republic, it is not an investigation by the Government of the Republic, it is a letter from a minister to me. I'm sure I'm gonna answer the letter like all the other letters, but I don't think that's the government's priority today, number 1, 2 or 3. This is a letter from a specific minister, which, of course, deserves to be answered in time and is limited to that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U20	Thank you for your question. The truth is that during that period, the Chancellor of the Ministry of Social Affairs had a similar relationship with the parish elder. It is also information that actually appeared in the media that our joint position in the Ministry at the time was that it was not wise to organise this event. The parent shared many doubts, but at that time it was really difficult to find legal arguments to reject. As far as I know, this particular event did not take place on the territory belonging to Saaremaa rural municipality, or there was such an obstacle, and there were also different opinions within the municipality government. As a result of the debate, this event was not banned. As has been said, hindsight, or accurate science, tells us that we should have banned it. Is it then the Health Board, is it then the parish, are the organisers of the event themselves, who could have failed to do it once again it is hindsight. But I don't think it's gonna give us anything today. As far as political responsibility is concerned, I highly value the parish elder of Saaremaa. I think that the work that was done on the ground in Saaremaa I have also visited there myself by both the parish elder and the members of the crisis headquarters, the Rescue Board, the hospital, the leadership and cooperation of many of the parties involved, was impressive. We're seeing today's numbers. Although more than 500 people have been infected in Saaremaa, 86 have been added in the last two weeks. In the meantime, for a few weeks, the increase was at a number of hundred, which is now very clear that the number of people infected has fallen. The situation in Kuressaare Hospital, in cooperation with the Defence Forces field hospital, has also been brought under control, and this work has been done collectively there, especially in search of solutions, not of those responsible. I think this is a sensible principle during any crisis. As for any ex post analysis that should have been carried out, these analyses will be carried out anyway. These analyses must be reviewed calmly in order to see what are the legal issues that could have been better regulated, which are the specific decisions that could have been taken in the past. They are made by all countries, and so is Estonia. But I think, as I said, above all, the idea of such analyses must be to be better prepared in the future, not to look up one, two, three or ten people and to say that they are responsible for the fact that we have a global epidemic. I don't think that's correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U21	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U22	Question No 3 is asked by Kristen Michal and answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U23	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! Like in life, there are phases in crises. At first, everything seemed distant, then the solution came with socks and fat, and later the personal protective equipment was scarce, the foreman was sought and the planes met. The evil virus, as you call it, is followed by economic impact. At the beginning of the crisis, consumers, businesses, public authorities made decisions to close, isolate. Its effect was rapid and strong, and many people lost their service. In the initial phase of the crisis, the state can offer relief, social labour market measures and, for example, measures to ensure liquidity. The first steps have been taken, and the impact of this aid will hopefully be rapid, temporary and effective in response to the crisis. The next view of solutions should be set for a medium-term plan of 3 to 5 years. The economic impact of the crisis, the hangover, to put it mildly, will last for years in some sectors. There are sectors where recovery can only start after the breakthroughs of scientists so that people can be together quickly and in numbers again or travel, and there are sectors where economic inertia is certainly longer. Today's government has, hopefully, already discussed with experts the simple knowledge that, even if the ruler were very kind and the state was very well maintained for the past 17 years, Estonia cannot rely solely on the European Union's injections of funds and, by means of this, on maintaining the status quo. This means that structural changes in the economy are inevitable. There will be a number of areas that are going to operate differently, there are those that are growing and fast. The country can give momentum to cope together in the crisis and to get out of it better. What are the options? For example, in the IT field, Estonia should be a highly successful self-seller in the world at such a time, yet we make questionable choices in this area. As we discussed the subject earlier, my question, which needs a meaningful answer, is: what is the government's medium-term view of coming out of the crisis, what are these economic steps and plans?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U24	Thank you very much for this very serious and constructive question. I fully agree with you that when we entered this crisis, urgent action was needed. Today's assessment, coming from the scientific council on the top of its area, has said that these restrictions were proportionate, was correct, that they contributed to preventing the spread of the outbreak. We have given assistance to the economic sectors quickly and thanks, above all, to the Riigikogu through an additional budget. The Unemployment Insurance Fund has done a very good job here and I must say thank you to both employers and trade unions. The little piece you said in your question that within 17 years the economy and fiscal policy have been properly treated, of course, I understand what you are suggesting politically. I have said thank you to both the Fatherland and the Reform Party, who have really been in power for a very long time and also at that time. I have also said thank you to the other political parties that are in the composition of the Riigikogu today, the Social Democrats, the EKRE and the Centre Party. So I wouldn't underestimate your line at all, that's the right line. But if you look at it in a three-to-five-year perspective, I think we're going to leave here as a completely different society, a completely different world. Now the question is what are these longer economic views. I think that one of the important things (I also emphasised it today, for example, when I met the European Union Affairs Commission in the morning), as you pointed out, is digital solutions, right? It is clear that we need to develop them even more vigorously; they have worked well. One of the best examples is the same e-learning or e-school, but also the ordering of all food through e-services. It took a lot of time at the height of the crisis, but, for example, the fact that children to their parents, who may also live on islands, order e-road is quite common. I don't think we can get over or around all this climate science, CO2. I think that investment must continue to be important and important in the area of the environment. For Estonia, I think, there are important connections which are also important in international terms. This is definitely the rail connection Rail Baltic, it is definitely the synchronization of the electricity system, where major investment projects are underway, but it is also road construction. So I think that these long-term investments certainly cannot be put in the background, but must be looked forward today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U25	Thank you for that question. I never thought you were a joker. You do work with your heart, and those are the right questions. We're talking about this tunnel now, you told me you were talking without kidding. I still think about this picture (I have said it here sometimes), it was, if I'm not mistaken, 2017 it's your election ad. You were at the seaside in Tallinn, standing and looking thoughtfully towards Finland, saying that this tunnel must come here. Now you're saying, in the long run. I agree, if the almighty gives life and health, to go to the sea with you, to take the children with you, it will be in 20 or 30 years' time. I don't know if this tunnel is or isn't, but let's say it is. I agree with all of this. The construction you said that Helir-Valdor Seeder took away our pension pillar, it is not true in that sense that I will certainly say at this point too, if this pension system is correct, that I will continue volunteering. Look, I don't know what you're gonna do now. You're gonna take the crap out. Because, indeed, you have been told by the previous president of an apology, there have been more of them, Mr Ansip has said that he will withdraw the money immediately, hasn't he? I have said the opposite again, that I should continue. Now from the tunnel. I think it's a serious issue, too, without a joke. I do support the further development of this tunnel. This cannot be, I think, a special investment in crisis measures today, because the special investment in road construction, as you know, is in the order of 40 million and we are not making this tunnel, it goes primarily on the gravel roads and asphalt roads of local governments, the Road Administration has some projects there, two or three. But to go on with this tunnel and to go on with all the tests, yeah, I think it's important. I have also said that the last time I had the opportunity to go to Finland at the end of February, when I was able to go to Finland and meet the Finnish President, we both said that we actually need to move on with the construction of the tunnel, and it is important that we still keep this lead on the level of ministries. This does not mean that in the future, the private sector will not be able to join the group. I think it's good. So I support that idea. If you're asking if an extra could be done here within the framework of some kind of green corridor or motorway investments in this tunnel, I think it should be done to look at the situation of these analyses and to forge this work. I don't think we're gonna be digging that tunnel tomorrow, but we're gonna be working on the goal that it's gonna be dug at some point. Yeah, that's right. So I'm going to support this formation in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U26	Thank you. Kristen Michal, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! Let's pick it up from there. On the digital field, we share the same view, as you said, but perhaps that is why I cannot understand these chariots in the government, and what we can deny there is also the pros group set up here by my colleagues in support of flatland. But let it stay. I would like to continue to talk about infrastructure. Again with a little fun, but also seriously: before the crisis, we had 4 million roads to plan, i.e. figuratively speaking, as if we were living in a country where we could plan a road for each track with one million, we have one road. In the crisis, it has been realised that the economic sectors are acting in an inert manner, that work must be done and that efforts must be made. If we want to become bigger in the future, there will be one connection in addition to IT connections, road connections and air connections, where my passion will probably not come as a surprise to you, it is the Tallinn Helsinki tunnel. Given that this is a very large project, which would work for decades to increase the economy both during construction and when it is completed, would it not be nice if we could both go to show our children that you see, children, this Tallinn-Helsing tunnel, or this great connection, was born during a crisis when politicians made their hands and did something for their people? What do you say?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U28	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U29	Thank you. My hope in this crisis is a smarter economy in the future, but I am now more involved in monitoring the feasibility of using money through my special committee than usual. In the Commission, there is a very clear talk with officials: you ask and get answers on how businesses are to be supported and how people are to be supported. But when we watch the media, we get completely different messages. I'm referring specifically to Sven Sester, in the last case it was the Minister of Finance, now Sven Sester, who says so, look, the others get as much as they can get out of it. How do you actually do this money distribution? Someone has already booked money without rules, without decisions, and someone has been deprived of that right. There's a media picture, but what's it really like? How far are you with this? And can you specify why such news is spreading?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U30	Thank you. All these money distribution keys or measures were offered by ministries and ministers at the end of last week; some came early this week. We will discuss them tomorrow and the day after tomorrow in order to agree on the models and distribution of these measures. So in that sense, we are quite close to the decision-making phase; these concrete projects exist today. I can't tell you in Question Time today that this OÜ can and this AS can't, or as you said, someone has said that if this OÜ or AS is left over, we'll take a look. No, this distribution certainly has not been decided at the moment. I myself think that in our economy, when we are now talking about the private sector in its entirety, there are those whom I think must be supported and who have been flagships of the Estonian economy, offer a lot of work to people, are important for our economic structure, are also important for economic recovery. There is certainly a need to look separately at what happens to certain state-owned companies, whether or not to give them the strength that has gone out of there because of this crisis. So there's no list to give or not give to. We'll discuss it, like I said, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U31	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U32	Next, Helmen Kütt asks and answers Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U33	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Social Affairs! At the end of last week, a letter of concern came through the media, brought out by Monika Haukanõm by the House of Disabled People. This concern concerned the 272 sub-organisations of their organization; they are the rooftops for them. I will bring a single sentence from this letter that payments for the second quarter will be made according to the agreed payment schedule, but from the third quarter they will have to reduce the amount of aid to be paid out in accordance with the current decree of the Minister for Social Affairs. This is support from the collection of gambling tax. I thank you very much for your rapid response, you said immediately that there will be no reduction in disability benefits, and also for the information that was stated in the Social Committee on Monday, that the amounts of contracts and grants from these 13 strategic partners will definitely remain the same, there will be no change. We see that such crises can occur, that the amount of gambling tax can often decrease, and that again the same problem arises. In this light, have you also thought that such subsidies should be decoupled from the gambling tax, so that it will be received by the state budget, and that the contracts with strategic partners will be implemented at the expense of the state budget? Perhaps you will comment a little on this point, because this proposal has actually been made to the Ministry of Social Affairs in the past, and also that you confirm that these 13 strategic partners can be calm, their actions can continue and they do not have to worry anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U34	Thank you very much for the important question. Let's go in a row. First of all, you referred to this particular letter from the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Social Affairs. To be honest, the wording of the letter is not the most successful. It refers to the fact that on the basis of preliminary data, the tax on gambling may decrease by up to 50%. Firstly, there was not specified that it concerned specific months, this period when casinos are closed, not all year. There is no forecast for a reduction of 50% throughout the year. I don't think that's gonna happen either. Of this 50%, many organisations experienced such a feeling of danger or concern as to whether their funding would therefore be cut by 50%. I confirmed at the time, and I assure you today, certainly not. The question that was sent out to all of these strategic partners was really to consult together, perhaps to discuss that, if we see that less gambling tax is due and we know that we currently have a special situation, different measures are in place, certain events cannot even be organised, these are some kind of training, conferences or other kind of action that must be postponed either way or later, then we should talk peacefully and agree among ourselves on how we will solve the third and fourth quarters' problems. If we see enough events, enough activities continue to require funding, if we see that there is really a drastic reduction in the amount of gambling tax due, then we certainly need to discuss this issue at government level as well. I have previously been in contact with the Minister of Culture on this subject, as well as with the Minister of Public Administration, since, as we know, money from gambling tax goes to four ministries: Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Social Affairs, Ministry of Education and Research, as well as the Ministry of Finance. Everyone has either projects or partners who receive funding through it. This problem is undoubtedly more widespread in this respect. As far as the other side of your question is concerned, I agree well with that. Let us now take a specific view of the Ministry of Social Affairs, which is certainly the most familiar one for you. We finance people who are addicted to gambling on the one hand. All right, 6,5% of our money goes there, while the remaining 93.5% of the 15.3% that are ultimately allocated to the Ministry of Social Affairs goes to medicine, care, families, the elderly, to support projects involving people with disabilities. So it doesn't make much sense here. Gambling tax money is the money that supports medicine, care, families, old people, people with disabilities, etc. As a matter of fact, I agree with you very much. Is now the best time to untie it? In some ways, perhaps even there is, because we see how unstable this makes funding for very important areas of national importance. There's some other logic behind this, except that this money has to be distributed in some way proportionally and reasonably, I don't really see it. I think this is a worthy and proper time for your current debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U35	Helmen Hunter, a question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U36	Thank you very much for your answer. I'm glad we both agree. I think that very, very many organisations are prepared for this debate and debate. But the concern, which is what I would like to ask you about now, is that these 13 strategic partners may be happy with their hearts, their funding will continue. But on Monday in the Committee on Social Affairs, it became clear that all other small projects, i.e. all other organisations, except these 13 strategic partners, were able to submit applications for small projects in advance all year round, but their applications have ended until the end of this year. Very many small projects and very many voluntary organisations, who actually contribute to the necessary activities after this crisis, have submitted applications in the past from both Ida-Viru County and Võrumaa and across Estonia. Municipalities have given their support and additional resources have been requested. We now know that they will not have the opportunity to submit this request during this year. On the other hand, the Danish State, on the contrary, increased its funding from the state budget to support non-profit organisations, voluntary activities, so that people, apart from such a health crisis, can return to normal life by contributing as volunteers. Did you also request additional financial resources from this crisis package to be able to finance these small projects, even to some extent, until the end of the year?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U37	Thank you for your question. Indeed, at the moment, there is a situation that these so-called'small project applications' cannot be made for some time. How long this period is, it is not clear today; it depends precisely on the collection of gambling tax. If we look at the tax collection as a whole, for example, in March, the gambling tax was about one million euros less than in February, the fall from 2.8 million was 1.8 million. We don't know what's going to be in April yet. As has been said, this problem is a little more widespread. It is my wish to really negotiate with the ministers, most of whom I have already had time to talk to about how we can level it out or, if necessary, how we can apply, which the government can discuss, there are many requests, there are many 'disasters' on several fronts. But if, in the case of gambling tax, we really see a drastic downfall compared to all the other taxes, where we are talking about 5%, 10%, here we are perhaps talking about a 40-50% downfall in certain months, then obviously this is going to put a lot of organisations, ministries, as well as local authorities, to certain difficulties. I think it would be wise to come up with such a collective solution, not so that each ministry individually, but rather all the four ministries together. Then it can be discussed at government level whether or not it will be separately compensated as a crisis measure. To these organisations today, yes, I dare say so much that, as this special situation has been very volatile and has made our daily work and functioning more difficult, it is unfortunately necessary to take into account now that it may not be possible to receive these grants in the coming months. But I very much hope that the situation will stabilise and that the payment of gambling tax will increase in this view. Although I agree with you, as you referred to earlier, it would be good if this money actually came from elsewhere. There should not be a schizophrenic situation where the Ministry of Social Affairs, which deals with people's well-being and concerns, welfare issues, poverty risks, must at the same time contribute to the payment of gambling tax, knowing that this is the area from which it receives additional funding to support the necessary organisations. So once again, we're coming to this debate. I hope that in the near future we will be able to provide more positive responses to organisations, including those applying for small projects, than has perhaps been possible so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U38	Thank you again for the important question. Very rightly you said, yes, that a strategic partner, as the name says, is not simply a randomly selected organisation. There is a very long-term principle of choice, behind the principle of cooperation, they are organisations that provide a very high added value: the House of People with Disabilities, who is an applicant through the so-called Foundation of Disabled Persons, the Association of Pensioners, the Golden League, the Estonian Red Cross, as referred to, the Alliance for Child Protection. When I bring someone out, I may be somewhat tossed by others, but I'm certainly not going to do this deliberately. In fact, these 13 are all important partners in their field for the ministry and the state as a whole. At the moment it is that by the second quarter we have given certainty and, in fact, payments have already been made according to the original schedule, we will arrive at payments for the third quarter somewhat later, as usual. We have agreed, indeed, that we will try to get a very clear picture of what activities organisations can and will certainly want to carry out in April and mid-May, whether there is something that should be postponed anyway due to emergency measures, as a result of the situation. At the same time, we also know that we do not really know, even today, whether it is allowed to do any major events in July, August, September or not. Perhaps, unfortunately, the situation is changing in real time and somewhat unpredictable. But today, the government is also discussing the exit strategy, and it certainly gives some confidence here, too, a certain vision on the basis of which action can be taken further. We also have a certain residue from gambling tax money, i.e. now the cashier is, figuratively speaking, not empty and zero. If the underbreak turns out to be less than initially feared, i.e. if the underbreak is not so great, payments for the third quarter can still be made in full and, if necessary, in cooperation with other ministries and in cooperation with the Government of the Republic, to discuss the allocation of additional funds in this area. Perhaps plan A is today, however, that the necessary activities of each strategic partner, the important activities of the state that are not only awaited by the government and the Ministry of Social Affairs, but, in fact, a very large part of the Estonian population, are children, families, people with disabilities, then health and the elderly, all of them can still be implemented. This is the 'Plan A' that we are working on today, and that is the objective that we hope to achieve.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U39	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U40	Thank you. Mr. Minister! 13 strategic partners are not just 13 organisations. After all, a much larger number of organisations are actually concentrated behind it, and this affects a much larger number of non-profit organisations. For example, to my knowledge, the Child Welfare Association has about six partners in this strategic partnership project. On the other hand, the strategic partnership is not a strategic partnership because of its name, but the Ministry has set its priorities, which are very deeply linked to the country's own activities and development plans. This means that if the non-profit sector's activities in these agreed areas should be slowed down, it will also hamper the implementation of major national activities and priorities. In this light, I would like to ask how you have planned flexibility or change in your activities if it should happen that non-profit organisations cannot support these major strategic activities due to lack of money or other reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U41	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U42	Question No 5 is asked by Jürgen Ligi and answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U43	Thank you. I began to think once that the'special situation leader' of this title I will give, I think, to an Estonian person who has actually been the best leader in this emergency situation a) to himself, b) to society together. The fact that we are seeing signs of improvement today is still very strongly linked to the fact that we see such a pattern of behaviour among Estonians, that they have respected these rules very strongly. I have also said that we can, and I think we've only been able to control this outbreak because we've been keeping together, but we've been acting very responsibly individually. The other part of your question, which also has a strong political side, was that there will be different messages about who trumps who. You know very well what needs to be read, what needs to be believed: what the government decides. The government has decided that the emergency situation will apply until 1 May unless the government decides otherwise. I have said, I think, many times that we come to extending the emergency situation on 23 or 24 April. This slightly depends on how we can decide on economic measures, and also depends on what is involved in the Council's video conference, which starts today at 4 p.m., which automatically closes the meeting of the Government of the Republic. Before that, there will also be a meeting of the Prime Ministers and Heads of State of the Nordic and Baltic countries via the video bridge. So I guess if you're asking me what to believe by the government, I think it's what the government has decided. Today, the extension of the emergency situation has not been decided; it is most likely to be on the table tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, and then we will decide. Then there'll be plenty of time, about a week, to give a clear message about what's going to happen in this situation. As I have discovered earlier today, my proposal has developed today that we cannot come out of the emergency on 1 May; it must be extended for at least two weeks.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U44	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! Officially, you're the head of emergency, according to the press, there are quite a few leaders. Martin Helme calls himself an emergency leader in advertising. We have just talked here about how support for businesses goes through the newspaper, and you say that it has not yet been decided who receives [support], but in the newspaper people already say who gets it. The Helme family has already extended the emergency situation three times. First, Martin Helme by two weeks, then you argued a bit against and said, "No, it has not been decided, it will be decided in April." Then he extended by two months, and you didn't say anything. And the day before yesterday, Mart Helme said he was going to be a month longer. Such a virvard of messages is not really funny at all; it is extremely disturbing for citizens, extremely disturbing for businesses just because they do not know how to organise their lives. How can we overcome this, that there will be messages from the government that reflect the real plans, but more importantly, the real decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U45	Jürgen Ligi, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U46	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! I don't know if you can sense the insane self-irony that you're talking about the earth and the weather when you answer. I asked about the emergency management and emergency manager, you began to talk at length about how each individual actually manages the emergency situation, everyone has their own emergency situation, people are the emergency leader. There's a path in it, but there's one driver. The message must be for the people, not from the people to you, not from the ministers to you. It is not you who need to learn your views from the newspaper, but you who need to reflect the views and decisions of the emergency manager and the government. But it's always the other way around. Today we heard just before we came here that Mikhail Kõlvart is the leader, he says that there will be no major events in Tallinn in the autumn. What do you have to conclude from this? Who's in charge? Who do you believe? What's to set life up for? In the shadow of the emergency, he has brought back PBK to Estonia and uses the same rhetoric for you: if there is even one person, then everything is okay. You said well about ETV+ even today, but in any case, the Estonian channels have been found by the Russians, but the Speaker, you see, brings back the Russian channel and says that there is still one person in the channel. Answer me one question. Don't tell me I had a lot of questions. I ask one thing for the second time: how can I overcome the fact that the emergency manager is being run rather than the emergency manager? I mean the messages here, I mean the instructions here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U47	Thank you. I also sense that this political pingpong, which has been in this Chamber, will come back. This sense of unity, which may have been politically present during this corona virus for a few weeks or a little more than a month, is now beginning to subside. It's also understandable, isn't it a reproach? You said the answers I gave weren't good for anything, they weren't right, they weren't good. Well, I don't mind. The head of the emergency is de jure, of course, and also de facto today Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. I work every second to get Estonia out of this emergency situation, to make sure that this outbreak is stopped, to do everything to ensure the health and life of the Estonian people. I am responsible for this as my own emergency leader, so it is, and this responsibility I am prepared to bear every second. As I guess I said here earlier: I think I'm the biggest fan of it to get out of there in a second, if that's possible. Unfortunately, that is not possible today. That's it. I fully accept this responsibility on my shoulders. But you said it was a patho, and then you said there was a blade to the truth. I remember when this corona crisis started, I said that we must act as our society, not as my society. This society has been very strongly our society. I think it has been very much the key to success. Is that a patho? If it is a patho, then it is a very good patho, but the fact that every individual has also felt a great responsibility for how to behave, and a very large part of society has done so, has in any case given that we are seeing quite good numbers today when it comes to how many positive tests have been added as of this morning. We can see that hospitalization has started to fall, and we can see that the number of [filled] intensive care facilities has also started to fall when talking about COVID-19. The good news is that the planned treatment will recover. True, it must be said that COVID-19 has now claimed the lives of 44 people.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U48	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U49	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! One of the objectives of managing the emergency situation should be to successfully manage the Estonian state out of this emergency situation, to get out of this crisis, as we talked about before. After all, Estonia's strong IT and e-state reputation should be in the world at such a time as people maintain physical distance from each other and are electronically connected, highly successful self-seller, to say the least. It suits us culturally, technologically, and everything else. However, we are seeing at this time that the Minister responsible for this area was dismissed because of its suitability for office. You said yourself that you have no reproach for him. At the same time, the party that released him also set up a working group, under the leadership of the ex-minister who discredited himself here among our colleagues, which certainly does not create a better reputation for e-state, e-elections or anything else. As Prime Minister, do you consider this to be a sensible, normal thing that supports Estonia's success story, a successful exit from the crisis? If you don't think you're normal, what are you gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U50	Thank you. Whether we successfully emerge from this crisis or not is, of course, wisdom in hindsight once we have come out of this crisis. Whether it was successful or not, you, the members of the Riigikogu, and the people of Estonia in particular, will certainly judge it. Was this crisis managed well or badly? One thing is, I think, is clear today, on this point I will also give an assessment: when we talk about the front line, when we talk about medicine, about health care, these people have managed to manage this crisis well. The medical system has survived, and it has certainly been a good sign. Surely this crisis has also managed well when we are talking about closing borders, the police and the Defence League, the Alarm Centre, which has received, I think, very difficult calls in a very tense situation. So we see them well-managed met a lot. The assessment of this successful or unsuccessful exit by the Estonian people and the Riigikogu, of course, also concerns politicians. It is no secret that this emergency is managed by the Prime Minister, led by Jüri Ratas, and we have a corresponding COVID-19 government committee that works daily. I guess that's an assessment. It is early to make this assessment today, because we have not come out of this crisis. I will certainly not intervene as Prime Minister in the groups of friends or support groups formed in the Riigikogu. I understand that one of the clues was to the last set-up of a support group. When you ask about the replacement of a minister, as your politician, as an old fish in a good way in this policy, you are well aware that there are coalition governments in Estonia. The coalition governments are based on the fact that delegations are appointed by the coalition's parties. There are three coalition parties today. The proposal to replace Kaimar Karu, Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology, came from the head of the delegation and the chairman of the party. I have said in the media, and I will also tell you here professionally, that if I was satisfied with Kaimar Bear's activities during this five and a half months, then yes, I was. He was certainly a professional minister. Whether or not a party replaces ministers is an unwritten rule that this is a decision of the coalition's parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U51	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U52	Next, Jevgeni Ossinovski asks and answers Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U53	Thank you! Honourable Minister of Social Affairs! The evening paper carried out an in-depth analysis of the availability of preferential medicines in pharmacies and the marginal prices. On April 16, last Friday, this analysis also appeared. It addresses two of the most important issues organised by the State in terms of price caps. On these two issues, I will ask you specifically today. If, in general, we have discussed for a long time over the past six months how the regulation of the pharmaceutical market has meant that Estonian patients have paid over millions of euros, then for a moment I would reject this issue and really look at these two aspects, which are clearly dependent on the state's activities. In general, the Estonian system of preferential medicines has justified itself quite well. We have been able to offer a rather large package of medicines with a relatively small amount of money; regulation of price caps has been clear and has saved both our resources and patients. The first issue to come out of this analysis is the availability of cheaper generic medicines at the pharmacy. This obligation is enshrined in the law that they must be available; the pharmacist is also obliged to offer them to the patient as a first priority, but we have still known that this is not always the case; these medicines are simply not available. The evening newspaper has found that even 26% of cases do not actually have a marginal drug available at the pharmacy. If we compare, for example, the analysis or monitoring results of the Agency in this area, their results have been much less stringent and controls have also been carried out much less. Consequently, my first question is how, in the light of this information, that the problem of access to medicinal products at marginal prices is massive, you intend to reform the supervision of the Agency.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U54	Thank you again for the important question. I have, yes, been in contact with the Evening Week and, of course, with the EMA on this subject. Drug pricing policy. I very much agree with you that this principle of price caps has generally been patient-friendly in Estonia, just like the additional drug compensation decided by the previous government for people with a higher need for prescription medicines. These are good things, but even the best things can be made even better. Here too, without doubt, I looked at the data of the Evening Week as well as the data of the Agency itself, there are clearly bottlenecks, there are clearly situations where the law cannot be fully enforced, it is due to supply difficulties, or it is due to the fact that a particular patient, for example, in one pharmacy or another, does not want the cheapest medicine, but wants another, he has a habit of buying something else. Perhaps he is not convinced either, it has not been explained to him that there is a medicinal product with the same active substance at a more favourable price, which it would actually be right to recommend as a matter of priority in accordance with the law, unless the doctor has prescribed a specific medicinal product without the active substance, namely on a pharmaceutical basis. I think that this issue is such a long one, which must certainly be brought to the attention of the future, and I promise to do so. If you are asking whether, at this time of emergency, a reform of the empowerment of the supervision of the Agency has been developed, it is not yet in place, but certainly more broadly, as in the case of the entire pharmacy market, after the reform of the pharmacy, I would say successful enforcement, there is still a need to move forward, to look at the new situation of pharmaceutical manufacturers, wholesalers, pharmacy owners, as well as the Health Insurance Fund, the Medicines Agency, cooperation between all these market participants, price policy, price formation, consumer awareness raising, price negotiations with manufacturers and also compliance with the requirements of the law. It is certainly also possible for the Agency to take input from the analysis of the Evening Week to make its work even more effective. These methodologies have been different, very clearly different have been those percentages and results that the Agency has shown in its own supervision and which have been shown in the Evening Paper, but I think that the nature of the problem is not denied by anyone. The question is, how big or on a scale this problem is. But it's absolutely something that needs to be dealt with. All the opposition's proposals are also welcome in this view, and all the proposals of the pharmaceutical market players are welcome. In fact, before the start of the corona crisis, we had a number of consultations at the time, precisely because of the supply difficulties, but on the table there was both the issue of maintaining public stocks of medicines, which would also help to alleviate the supply difficulties, as well as, more generally, any possible issue of pharmaceutical policy. Behind the table were representatives of family doctors, pharmacists, wholesalers, pharmaceutical manufacturers. I think that such a round table must certainly be convened again soon. In times of crisis, we have really been dealing with current problems in particular so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U55	Thank you. Evgeny Ossinovski, a specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U56	Thank you! To clarify your first answer, I am simply saying that we are not, of course, talking in this analysis about cases where both the cheap and the original medicinal product are available and the patient prefers the original medicinal product. This is very much, and it is indeed a question of raising awareness and so on. But the cases that we are talking about here and which are actually massively, 26% of the situations that the Evening Paper analysed are that 23000 times there was a situation where there was no marginalized drug. Only 58 of them have been identified by the Agency. There may be some kind of methodological difference, but basically it's a larger magnitude. In this situation, we are not talking about the avoidable own contribution that the state usually talks about. This is basically an unavoidable own contribution, because it is not possible for a person to get a cheap medicine because it is simply not in the pharmacy, and as a result, patients are overpaid millions of euros. The other issue that was raised came as a surprise to me. Towards the end of last year, it became clear and the Evening Paper has been grateful to examine it to the end, that the price cap agreements will be concluded for the active substances for a single package. While the same active substances also have different packaging on the market, either with a higher or lower strength of the medicine or with a higher number of tablets, in fact, the price cap rules do not apply and, consequently, people will have to pay again more, they will not be protected by this cap agreement. For example, I looked at the cost of the 100 50-milligram tablet of metoprolol-based medication, but the cost of the 100 25-milligram tablet, or half the amount of the hard pill, is actually higher, 5.83, but the marginal price is twice as low. Maybe the person actually pays more, the country compensates less, the person is defenseless. It is certainly more difficult to solve in essence than the supervision procedure at the Health Board, but I think it is at least just acute. Do you agree that it needs a change and when is it going to be dealt with?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U57	Thank you for your question. The short answer is I agree. The longer answer is that, as far as the analysis of the Evening Page is concerned, I do not want to question their methodology at all. It's somewhat similar to a normal patient's journey. In particular, the current situation was checked, i.e. it did not take into account whether, for example, the patient would have received a more favourable treatment on the next day, for example because it was simply not available at the pharmacy, but it was ordered, or because it had been bought by a customer before him for a larger amount of the same medicine, so that the stock was no longer available. If we're talking about less common medicines, smaller pharmacies, there's never any stock on the ground that's big. That's what needs a little more thorough review. As has been said, I have been in contact with the Agency on this subject, and I think this is what needs to be done, looked at and compared to the methodology of the Agency and as far as possible to determine whether this problem was permanent, whether this problem was more about choosing the moment of time, or if the patient had visited a particular pharmacy every day in a week or month. he would still have been given a more expensive medicine every day. In that case, we would be talking about a far more extensive question than when we were at the moment, figuratively speaking, some of them, certainly not all, on the wrong day or at the wrong time in the pharmacy, when this medicine was not available. On the other hand, this issue of price caps. Yeah, it's really been a logic at the moment that it's theoretically possible for a person to decide if he's going to buy this drug with a higher active ingredient and cut the tablet in half. It's not always possible, I agree. Depends on which package we are talking about, whether it is easy to take half a tablet and get the same active substance in strength, or whether it is some kind of capsule or other type of capsule, for which it may not be so easy for a person to skip. In such a case, a situation may arise where it is simply given a slightly higher price for the same active substance, because it is in a more suitable package, with a more appropriate strength of the active substance. I think we need to come back to this question, too, which I am not arguing about. But as has been said, the analysis of the evening page is relatively fresh. I know they're still writing, working. I have accepted, without joke, both in public and in private conversation, the editor-in-chief and, more generally, the Evening Festival Collective, that this is the very right subject to be put on the table, all this pharmaceutical reform, actually related to the pharmaceutical market. It's people's money, it's actually people's expense often. Understandably, patients may not always know all their rights and the responsibilities of the pharmacy when they go to the pharmacy. This is where, on the one hand, they need to be explained more widely to people, and this cooperation also needs to be stepped up in this sense, so that there is very clear supervision and control if the laws are not broken, perhaps because of supply difficulties or other unavoidable circumstances, but are deliberately violated, either by convenience or by habit. Of course, the laws apply to everyone, so he's a bigger or smaller pharmacist.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U58	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U59	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I also come to one of the emergency measures, which goes the same way at people's pockets. Two weeks ago, during the additional budget procedure, Minister for Finance Martin Helme told us that labour market measures, which are intended to alleviate people, would also be allowed in the case of debt contracts, not only in the case of employment contracts and public services. Two weeks ago, Mr Jüri Ratas told us here in Question Time that he had no knowledge of it, but the government was discussing it, and he would give us a clear answer in the coming days. We haven't heard from that answer. On Monday last week, in the Committee on Social Affairs, officials said that the measure would not be extended to people in debt-law contracts. I have a question about how it really is. The Law of Obligations Agreement is a law contract under which a large number of people in the care sector work: babysitters for children with disabilities, supporters, home carers, and education and support specialists alike. These are not just and necessarily people in business and business, but people who receive the same minimum wage or a small wage working for our own people in distress today during the crisis. So what's the actual situation? Are these discussions ongoing or not, and what is the solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U60	Thank you very much for your question. Indeed, if, during a crisis, different measures were to be developed, which would normally be carried out over perhaps years, at least months, but now has been done in days and weeks, it will be very difficult to cover all the target groups at once. All the more so when we talk about different forms of contract, for example. The current measure is indeed intended on the basis of a contract of employment, which means that people who have been entrusted with management contracts and employment contracts under the Law of Obligations Act will have the possibility to reorganize them into an employment contract ex post in accordance with the law. This has also been done quite a lot (I have asked for statistics in relation to the unemployment fund and the Tax and Customs Board), if this contract corresponds to the content of the employment contract, let us say. Let's look at contracts made under the Law of Obligations Act. Two thirds of them are very short-term, up to three months, i.e. they are, in fact, coincidences, which in many ways are time-defined and there is no stable employer. When we are talking about long-term contracts that last more than 10 months, 10 to 12 months or more, we are talking about 11% of contracts here, or one tenth. This is primarily the group and the circle in which the contract can be converted into a contract of employment and paid in full in accordance with that compensation. One of the fundamental principles of compensation, which would repeat this, is that the application is submitted by the employer, i.e. the employer applies for his employees by paying his own contribution, 150 euros plus taxes, gross EUR 150 plus social security and unemployment insurance contributions, applying for up to 70% of the employee's previous salary, but no more than EUR 1000, and also meeting certain criteria. Perhaps when we talk about other employment contracts that comply with this principle, they can be made into a contract of employment, receiving support. However, if we are talking, for example, about short-term contracts that do not actually have such a stable employer, there is no employer who could, in theory, submit this application together with its own commitment, self-financing, and so-called job guarantee for this person, it is really not possible to accommodate them in this specific measure at the moment. We have discussed this on several occasions in the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund, where there are several parties, employers, trade unions and the State's Minister for Social Affairs and the Chancellor of the Ministry of Finance. It is not so easy to develop an appropriate legal solution that would also correspond to the understanding of fair compensation by the members of the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund. However, you are entitled to 50% unemployment benefit for the first 100 days, then 40%. They shall have that right if they have paid unemployment insurance contributions. This specific measure for these contracts today, if they are in a very short period of time, cannot be applied in substance because there is no permanent employer, no one to guarantee a job. Maybe basically these people's contracts are over, the next minute they're with someone else. The creation of a full control mechanism is several times more complicated, which would require us to be able to identify precisely whether the activities of the person with this employment contract have been reflected in the right month or whether he is able to move something around there. This whole thing is more complicated. We have discussed this at several meetings of the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund. Indeed, as of the moment, it is a recommendation that, in the case of a long-term contract, it should be converted into an employment contract and applied for compensation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U61	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U62	Next, Siim Kallas asks and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! When can we expect the Finnish bridge to be reopened, i.e. the normal ferry connection to Tallinn between Helsinki and Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U64	Thank you. As soon as possible. It is not just up to us, it is also up to the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Finland. I have a phone conference with the leaders of both countries tomorrow before the Council, there is a wider circle, there are the leaders of the Nordic and Baltic countries. So when the outbreak cancels out, dot one. I think that such coordinated action between Estonia and Sweden and between Estonia and Finland, as well as when crossing the border between Estonia and Latvia, is very sensible in this region. At the same time, we must take into account that Finland and Sweden have been on different routes to combat this virus. As we know, Sweden has chosen a different model than the rest of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U65	Siim Kallas, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U66	First of all, you have no time frame or any idea how long it might last, just sometime it would be interesting to hear it. But the second question is actually this. Traditionally, the relations between Estonian and Finnish leaders have been very good, up to personal friendship. But it seems to me that these relationships are relatively cool now, so as not to say bad. What is your assessment of the current state of relations between Estonia and Finland?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U67	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U68	Thank you. Prime Minister! I will continue on the issues of connections and borders, but the question is the people living from a much closer neighborhood. In your first reply, you did not answer exactly when people living on the islands would be able to access the mainland under the same conditions, such as the people of Tartu, the people of Tallinn, the people of Harjumaa. When will they be able to move? Do you have any kind of noise to say?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U69	Thank you. Relationships are very good, very close between people. If you mean, I understand, the communication between the heads of state, the communication between Estonia and Finland or between the prime ministers of Estonia and Sweden, I say that it is also very close, very good. So I appreciate it. The fear or concern you have is not justified in any way. You said there was no answer. Well, no one has that answer today for how long this outbreak is. Opening borders does not depend on whether it is nice that borders are closed. No, it's not great. The borders are closed because they're just trying to contain the virus. I very much hope that in May or early June we will see a different kind of travel between Estonia and Finland, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U70	Thank you. If they've been on the island all along, but their jobs, for example, are on the mainland, they can come one time. It's always been possible to come, but really, you can't go back to your home. If you ask when people living on islands can get to the mainland, just as the people of Tartu can get to Tartu, no one has this answer today. Nobody. This response depends on the outbreak of the virus. I understand we're starting to get to that phase, so open it all up. No, it's not conceivable. It's not conceivable to open it all up. That is what the European Commission says. Everyone says that when it comes to relief, it has to be done gradually. You have to make some kind of relief and then measure it. We are not just playing a great game with this exit strategy, but there are eight basic metrics that are clearly set out here. As I said, yesterday, the science council and I added another metric to it. It can be based on these meters. If the meters allow it, we can do some relief. You said I didn't answer that question. You want me to answer that they can move on Tuesday, I don't know what date this particular Tuesday is then, at 1:00. Well, there's no such answer, it doesn't exist. You understand very clearly that the desire today is to get the outbreak under control. I will not start with the sentence of how difficult the situation was in Saaremaa, but I will start with the sentence of how good the people of Saaremaa were to cope with this very difficult situation. We do not want to see this situation again. Speaking of other islands, I understand that you are also concerned about Vormsi, Hiiumaa, Kihnu and Ruhnu, I think that the traffic between islands is likely to be slightly different with a certain time window. If you ask what this 'little' means, let's say that up to two weeks are different when we talk about Vormsi, Hiiumaa, Kihnu and Ruhnu or Muhumaa and Saaremaa. I've been in conversation with all these parish leaders, Kihnu, Ruhnu, Vormsi and the leaders of Hiiumaa. They see at the moment that the island should be accessible to those who are registered in the population register. With the little exception of Hiiumaa, you can see it a little bit wider. Your question is, I understand, the opposite. At the moment, there is no such answer. Unfortunately, that is not the answer to the COVID-19. But I believe that traffic between the islands will recover, and there will certainly be a way of normalisation in May and June.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U71	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. For my part, I pierce the fact that Estonia's relations with Finland are excellent at parliamentary level as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U72	But the next question, No 8, is asked by Heljo Pikhof and answered by the Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U73	Thank you. Dear Minister, After all, no one denies that today we have a lot of problems in long-term care, and the burden falls on family members both in caring and in paying for home care. Access to the service is increasingly dependent on the solvency of the user of the service. People's and their loved ones' own share in paying for their nursing home has increased from 60% to 80% in the last ten years. We are living in a time of crisis today, we know that many people are either unemployed or unemployed, they are without income. Should not the state commit itself now to paying the difference between a pension and a nursing home so that it becomes the norm next year? The Social Democrats have tabled an amendment on the additional budget, which was unfortunately voted down by the members of the coalition on Wednesday. This would have made the nursing home available for retirement. The additional budget is EUR 2.5 billion, I mean the financial volume, but the municipalities do not see support for people whose loved ones are in nursing homes, which means that the difference between pensions and nursing homes can be paid with the support of the state. Why is that? Please answer this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U74	Thank you for your question. I'll start at the beginning. The issue of carers and, more broadly, when we talk about general care, we talk about various care services, is a topic that, I have said before, the country has clearly not addressed enough for decades. In fact, municipalities are not sufficiently supported and have not been adequately supported in paying their own shares, in organising the service, in setting standards or in making the necessary investments. As a result, these activities have gradually, one could say, moved forward, we have also been able to provide sufficient support from European Union funds for the implementation of various infrastructure measures, in particular to ensure a better environment in these same general care institutions, special care institutions, to ensure more high-quality, high-standard spaces. There has also been a so-called passport system, which has been set up since January this year, with a transition phase, so that there are very clear principles, criteria to be met by service providers. But so far, in fact, the people who have had to pay for their participation, or the local authorities that have done so with them, have not been very supportive of the state. Special care is state-owned, but we are talking about general welfare, where people and municipalities are left to carry this service [the cost]. We really know that people's own participation, as you rightly said, has increased by 20% in 10 years, reaching 80% already, which is why several governments have been engaged in an in-depth reform of long-term care. We, too, have agreed in this government that by the end of the year we will present our very clear principles and proposals for a long-term care system. In fact, the aim is the same as the one you referred to in order to reduce people's own participation, to clearly structure the logic of the formation of own ownership, to support both local authorities and people in obtaining and providing vital services. As regards why the State does not pay off all these services at the moment, according to the law, it is indeed a municipal service. I think that the approach of local governments and the state acting together here is the right one. As you well know, with this extra budget, the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu have actually supported the allocation of 130 million euros to local governments. Of this, 30 million are linked to the payment of various services, it is social assistance, it is the same care home service, it is the other running costs, 70 million are for investments and, in addition, 30 million for the maintenance of different roads. I'm going to go down in history now. When it was decided to cut the local government's income base during the economic crisis in 2009, the part of the income tax they received was reduced, knowing that their income base fell anyway due to the tax gap, this time it was clearly different, this time the municipalities have been further supported financially and can be done, of course, within their own budget, to relieve people who pay for care.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U75	Heljo Pikhof, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U76	Minister, thank you very much. You didn't answer my question straight now. In fact, I said that the Social Democrats suggested that the same extra budget, which is 2.5 billion, could have provided for support, precisely in view of the crisis situation, so that the difference between pensions and nursing homes could have been paid off. When we talk about the 30 million that are distributed to local governments across Estonia, it is actually designed to prevent these services from being provided what could have been provided in the case of a normal income base. The municipalities have made it clear that if there were State support here, this would be very necessary at the moment. Many people are forced to bring their elderly home, become their own carer, and it will not be easy to get back to the labour market because of these people. I ask once again why you did not foresee, as one of the crisis measures, that the difference between the nursing home and the pension would have been paid by the state or that the money would have come from the state to the municipalities. Some nursing homes cost 1,000 euros and even more.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U77	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U78	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear Minister, Understandably, in the current emergency, nursing homes are in very strict isolation and, of course, the need for people there to look another person in the eye, to communicate, to be in contact with their loved ones increases. Right now, they can only do this on the phone. In cooperation with the Social Insurance Board, Telia and Samsung, I understand that 30 tablets were sent to care homes in Saaremaa, through which the residents of the nursing home could look their loved ones in the eye and make video calls with them. Does the Social Insurance Board intend to extend this project beyond Saaremaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U79	Thank you very much for your question. We are now talking about the distribution of public services or, in this case, of local government services. That, I think, is not wise to do in a 'long-term' view during a crisis, it must be negotiated calmly, agreed calmly. If we are talking about covering the cost of this particular service, it would have assumed, in the same way, that if the state undertook to do so today, it would have to bear that obligation tomorrow. Not that if the same person you are referring to is in financial difficulty and maybe he is in financial difficulty this year and next year and, in the meantime, we will cover it for him, but next year, we will say that the crisis is over, and now you have to deal with it on your own. This still requires a sustainably thought-out systemic solution, which is fair ownership. Similarly, according to the law, a person must not be required to take up his or her own participation more than he or she is able to cope economically; the Social Welfare Act states that paying for these services must not be left behind by so-called personal income and, similarly, the family must really look at the economic situation. When we talk about the responsibilities of local government, the services provided by local government, it has then delegated this provision to the private sector or it has provided it to people through its own institutions, the same amount of EUR 30 million they will be able to make, in particular, allocations and decisions about it in order to support people in paying their own contributions to the care home. But, as has been said, in the long term, we will come to this issue to review what solution we can offer to people so that we do not see a similar situation in the next ten years where people's own contribution is increasing and the contribution of local authorities and the state's contribution, depending on the sector and service, falls. In terms of theme setting, I fully agree with you, but, as I said, we may not be able to resolve long-term issues with a one-off measure. Long-term issues still need to be resolved with sustainable measures, with fundamental decisions, so it is a redistribution of tasks, so it will be a contribution in the future, just as the principle of long-term care reform also provides. This additional budget really solved the situation during the crisis, solved the acute issues, was it wage measures, was it to support the various business sectors, and, in the same way, the municipalities were given extra money precisely so that they could also solve the issue of providing social assistance in their own regions, municipalities and cities, the issue of kindergarten work, social services and so on. Once again, I pointed out here before that, it is basically a different approach from the previous crisis, this time not taking money away from the municipalities, but giving them more.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U80	Thank you for your question. Indeed, this initiative started in Saaremaa because there was the most acute problem, there were also the first nursing homes where, unfortunately, large-scale infections of the Corona virus were discovered and detected and quarantined. I agree, this issue should be considered, whether it is possible to extend it across Estonia. We know that we have providers in the order of 150, half of the private sector, half are local government service providers, there are almost 200 service places in total, where general care is provided, with special care units that are state-owned. I'm sure the cost is very high. I hope, in some ways, that this may not be necessary in the long term. If we can control this virus, however, the nursing homes in quarantine will be able to gradually return to a rhythm where people using personal protective equipment without symptoms will be able to visit their family members or will initially be able to deal with these things with different information communication solutions on the ground. I think this initiative in Saaremaa was very good. I agree that one should think and consider whether it is possible to do something similar across Estonia. We support care homes today through various measures, in particular the provision of personal protective equipment, as well as the organisation of infection checks in them. But I fully agree that we must look at this human side as well. We already know that there may be a feeling of loneliness among the elderly and perhaps also anxiety more than average during the crisis. We know that 51% of the people in the population survey that the State Chancellery did said that they are now feeling more stress and tension than under normal circumstances. This applies both to the elderly and to all other members of society. Such, perhaps above all, additional measures of human values and human contact, I think, must, in principle, be taken forward. Now the question is whether we can do this financially. But I will take these observations with me here in any case, and I hope that the municipalities themselves will give more thought to how to offer this service to their people as much as possible in nursing homes. If necessary, you can also work well with the Social Insurance Board to exchange solutions and best practices and information. But unfortunately, there is no so-called free money in the Social Insurance Board's account to issue tablets to all nursing homes across the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U81	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U82	Next, Keit asks for Pentus-Rosimannus and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U83	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! With the introduction of an emergency situation, the government also paused the provision of scheduled treatment, and this has affected a large number of chronic patients as well as those who, for example, have been waiting for an operation. If it is now possible to gradually ease the restrictions, in order to reduce the order of planned treatment, hospitals will probably have to work overtime in part. If hospitals and doctors are ready to do so, there is no financial cover from the health insurance fund in the current situation, and the current model of the health insurance fund does not foresee its coverage. If you have discussed further support in the government, have you considered how to cover this cost further? Have you discussed, for example, an increase in the cost of medical treatment to cover this excess?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U84	Thank you very much for this question. Guess that's why, as the first great relief, we went to the idea of opening a scheduled treatment from yesterday. Dr. Arkad's Popov has estimated that the opening will last seven to ten days. We have also received an overview of the inevitable and planned treatment. If we compare March 2019 to March 2020, we will see that the inevitable treatment has fallen by about 8% to the detriment of 2020 and the planned treatment by about 22%. I would certainly like to bring out again the additional budget adopted by the Riigikogu. More than EUR 200 million, namely EUR 213.2 million, goes to providing the continuity of the health care system and high-quality healthcare. It is allocated from an additional budget to the Estonian Health Insurance Fund through the Ministry of Social Affairs. It's different here, let's say, distribution keys inside, it's agreed. For example, 150 million goes to hospitals and specialist medical care, to the primary level, as well as to nursing and ambulances. We must bear in mind that, in the long term, we must certainly come back to this question. The question is whether we can start providing scheduled treatment in accelerated or forced order. Indeed, there is a deficit or deficit, with a total of about 130,000 people in the HVA hospital queue in March 2020. This does not mean that this figure was zero during the normal period. No, it's not like that. There have been others before, but it is clear that they have now come. So my answer is that we have taken the first step towards covering all the costs of COVID-19, so that hospitals should not have to do so at the expense of the scheduled treatment that they have taken into account last year's budget. But in order to offer yet more accelerated scheduled treatment, you definitely have to come back. To this extent, it should be said that scheduled treatment can only recover if healthcare providers are very clearly meeting the conditions arising from the COVID-19 epidemic, which have been prescribed for them, how they must be delivered to their facilities. So there's still some limitations here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U85	Thank you. Certainly, the planned treatment cannot be entangled by the fact that hospitals have had to spend extra expenses due to COVID-19 disease. The state has promised that it will pay these expenses in addition, and the money will be paid in addition. Indeed, a very specific guide to the restoration of planned work has been made for health care providers under the COVID-19 epidemic conditions, such as the restoration of planned work in the context of an epidemic, the TTO is responsible for the volume and safe management of the service, the Health Board has a consultative and controlling role in restoring planned work in the context of an epidemic and the facilities for treatment must be provided; they must be separated from premises contaminated by COVID-19. Here's actually your question. This certainly requires certain reorganisations in hospitals; it certainly requires certain investments in hospitals. Personnel must have no signs of COVID-19 and should not be exposed to COVID-19 patients during their daily work. This also means additional resources, as staff must be kept separate. We have agreed that hospitalization is not about EMOs, but about hospitalization is taking place in six-seven hospitals in Estonia, when we restore scheduled treatment, the rest of the hospitals will no longer receive hospitalization patients in the COVID-19 departments. So I think that certainly the extra investments that are being made to combat this virus cannot come at the expense of planned treatment, but must be paid separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U86	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, a specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U87	Thank you. After all, my question was, above all, whether hospitals, as well as patients waiting for treatment, can be sure that the provision of treatment, as promised, will not be behind the additional costs. However, the second question is precisely the same as ensuring the safety or health of patients in a situation where the vaccine does not yet exist and there is no certainty that if this vaccine comes, how effective it will be. Therefore, reorganisations in hospitals are likely to have to be carried out in such a way that healthy patients, or those who have not been infected with COVID-19, are separated and possibly separate departments. All this means additional investment. Once again, the question is that, if hospitals have clearly not planned to make these investments, but this is necessary in the interests of patients' health, does the government have a plan to finance such unavoidable investments? Is this plan part of an exit strategy from the crisis? Have you discussed this and to what extent do you consider it possible to cover these expenses instead of hospitals?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U88	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U89	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I come back to the question that Siim Kallas asked you. He asked about the ship's connection to Finland and about the ship's connection to Sweden. I'll get a few things straightened out first. You said that the connection to Sweden depends on the decision of the Swedish and Estonian governments. That's not entirely true. Sweden has not closed its borders and therefore the Swedish Government will not decide anything; it is the decision of the Estonian Government if it wanted to start shipping with Sweden again. At the same time Siim asked whether relations between Estonia and Finland had gotten very bad or worse than they had been before, and as a result there was no connection or passenger traffic between Finland and Estonia. You said no, relations are good, you're still talking to your Finnish colleagues on the phone. I'm sure you will. I also think relationships aren't so bad that nobody hangs up when you call. However, while I look at the way Finland has behaved, for example, towards Sweden, the same Sweden, which has a different strategy and a much higher infection rate and a higher number of people infected, Finland, for example, made an exception for Sweden. There is a land border in northern Sweden and northern Finland, in Tornedalen. It was also a question of applying the same regime as Estonia there. But the Finnish Parliament, with which we also have very good relations, according to Henn Põlluaasa, voted in favour of maintaining the possibility of commuting with Sweden: people who work either in Finland or Sweden can freely cross the border. However, Estonia was not granted such an exception. My question is, however, that maybe it is because we had the Minister of the Interior insulted the Finnish Government some time ago, and maybe the Finnish Government still has a slightly different view of Estonia than it is with regard to Sweden. If there's any other reason, maybe you can explain it to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U90	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U91	Thank you for that question. First of all, when it comes to freight transport and trade, it works. Today, for example, the Paldiski-Kappelskär ship connection works, it exists. I understand that politics and such political rhetoric will come back here, and that is understandable. I do not have the same knowledge as you, Mr Randpere, that the border between Finland and Sweden for occupational pendulum migration is fully open. In the case of Estonia, as we know, it is currently closed. When I spoke with the Finnish Prime Minister, he pointed out that indeed there are some places in Northern Finland where there are (here we bring a parallel with Valga and Valka) very strongly certain municipalities or cities or settlements connected together, and there really allowed under certain conditions, he stressed: under certain conditions, crossing the border. As far as I am concerned, there is no wide-ranging work suspension, as you say. I don't have that kind of information. Now what Siim Kallas asked for. I answered him. Relationships are good and workable. Tomorrow, we will speak on the phone again with our Finnish and Swedish counterparts. There is no distinction that you want to make here politically, point one. I also find it rather humiliating and blaming to say to our good neighbour Finland that they should make some kind of decision as a result. In particular, as I understood, you said that Eduskunta has decided or you are afraid that he would have decided differently for Estonia. Geographically, I understand that some of these points are very close to each other, and that has really been the reason why some derogation has been granted between Finland and Sweden. But I don't know that working between two countries is allowed, as you said.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U92	If now the questioner and the answerer are doing well-to-be brief, shorter than allowed, then one more question can be taken. Light Everaus, please! The previous topic is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U93	Thank you. There's no time to answer that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U95	Thank you for this opportunity. My question relates to the concerns of women's doctors, pediatricians, but actually birthers. It's not just an emergency, they're also planned sick, if you put it that way, they're not really sick. There is concern about this and, unfortunately, we did not get the answers from your colleague at the Social Affairs Committee meeting, that, on the one hand, our experience in Estonia has also shown that those who come to give birth may be viral positive without symptoms. In the last month, a dozen such infants have been found. In other words, the need for a rapid diagnosis here is very important (probably the rate of delivery varies for each birther) in order to find out how to deal with this particular birther. Second, once these viral positive births are found, in 48 hours, they'll be going home, but they'll have to live with this little life, in other words, feeding it. And there's another question. Simple, yet it seems very insurmountable: 12 surgical masks a day, or for two weeks, 168 masks are needed for one child's child to cope at home. Your colleagues at the Ministry did not find specific solutions to these issues on Monday...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U96	The other half of the question was...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U97	Unfortunately, the other half of the question is not answered in the absence of time. [[Voices in the hall.]] We need to turn on the hallblock. I thank all my good colleagues and thank the ministers for their response. Question Time's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U98	Everything!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U99	Great, thank you! Reply by Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U100	Thank you for your question. A perfectly understandable theme raiser. I have also been in contact with various hospitals on this subject, the Health Board, the Ministry, last night I also had contact with the head of the Pelgulinna maternity centre, which is part of the Western Tallinn Central Hospital, but I did so to get a local feeling. The need for rapid tests is understandable and we have also ordered them. We're talking about these Cepheid Xpress SARS-CoV-2 tests. The Government Committee has decided to support the acquisition of 20000 such tests. The main obstacle is not money, but really because it is reliable, high-quality tests that the whole world wants. They are produced in the USA with FDA approval and certification. 20000 have not yet arrived in Estonia; we have the first batch. There's also a distribution between hospitals. They are primarily intended for the emergency department, but I agree, also for the maternity department, or other time-critical patients, who are not eligible for the so-called ordinary PCR test, which takes a little longer to get a response. With this direction, we're totally on board with you and we're gonna keep working on it. In fact, we agreed yesterday in the Committee on Government that we would come to the issue of further acquiring these tests. 20000, as has been said, has already been decided and the money has been allocated, but more is actually needed. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, we figured out what the need would be. Probably until the end of the summer, we're talking about 50,000 extra tests. Now a suitable supplier must be found, and this issue must be discussed in the Committee on Government. We'll do that in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U101	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday of the 12th working week. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to pass on drafts and enquiries? Yes, it is. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U102	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Together with nine colleagues, I will report an inquiry to Minister for Social Affairs, Tanel Kiige, and this concerns abnormally high pharmaceutical prices. There has been a lot of talk about medicines both here and in the public sector over the past six months, mainly in the context of the inefficient regulation of medicines robbing patients of millions. But that's not what we're talking about today. Instead, we are talking about the fact that the Evening Paper has moved on to the subject and has published a very in-depth analysis last week on 16 April, which shows that the regulation of the pharmaceutical market in the context of price caps is very deficient. After all, the system itself is good and protects both the patient and the health insurance fund's budget, but there are still serious shortcomings there. The evening paper brings out two of the most important ones. One of them has known about himself. Although according to the law, medicines with a price cap must be available in every pharmacy and the pharmacist is obliged to provide them first, often the cheapest medicine is not available for sale. This has also been detected by the EMA from time to time, but on a rather small scale. The Evening Paper has analysed all Estonian pharmacies and all marginal prices and found that even in 25% of cases there is no medicinal product at the marginal price, i.e. the cheaper medicinal product is not actually available. In this context, we ask the Minister for Social Affairs how he intends to reform the system of supervision of the Agency in order to ensure that medicines with price fixing are actually available in pharmacies. The second issue concerns one very specific aspect of the price cap agreements, which I cannot convincingly explain to you here. However, it turns out that price cap agreements only protect a certain number of patients, others remain completely unprotected and have to pay excessively. In this regard, we have some questions for the Minister for Social Affairs about how he plans to remedy these serious deficiencies in his administration. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U103	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U104	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia is a parliamentary state and is also a parliamentary state in an emergency or should be. This means that the members of the government must report to Parliament on what is being done and answer Parliament's questions about their decisions. Yet we see that ministers do not tend to come to committees to answer questions. Moreover, the deadlines for replying to enquiries are too long to carry out any parliamentary scrutiny in an emergency. Therefore, the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Estonian Social Democratic Party together deliver a draft supplementing the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures with a paragraph on emergency situations, emergency situations, state of emergency and martial law, and how answers to enquiries should take place in such situations, namely that this deadline would be shorter than the normal situation of the current law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U105	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U106	Good fellows! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The Social Democrats have a bill that exempts parents from paying the place fee in kindergarten. The corresponding cost would be borne by the State and the loss of income would be compensated by the State to the local authorities. It is a pleasure to look at the programmes that were on the political parties before the Riigikogu elections, because both the Centre Party and the Reform Party had then come up with a similar promise. I will read out the promise of the Centre Party, who is in the coalition today: we will give every child a free day care place, we will compensate local governments for the costs of this offer. Let's watch today's kindergarten pay for money. In most cases, it is a percentage of the minimum wage, in some places it is also a fixed amount. I would like to remind you that the local government may charge up to 20% of the minimum wage set by the Government of the Republic for the kindergarten. We have 66330 children who are 2019/2020. early childhood education is acquired during the academic year. Surely our amendment would be of great benefit. Perhaps more than that, if we look at the size of the place fee, it will vary from a few dozen euros to nearly 100 euros. It is 81 euros in particular in Tartu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U107	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U108	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Socialists, I will report an inquiry to Minister for Finance, Martin Helme, concerning the first supplementary budget for 2020, the possible second supplementary budget and the possible expenditure of the state at all. This concerns self-employed workers and helping them during the crisis. As we know, there are 22000 self-employed persons in Estonia, most of whom use this form rather when doing regular employment contracts. I bring, for example, hairdressers, taxi drivers, beauty servicemen, musicians, and all such people. We are interested in how these additional budgets still support those self-employed people who have lost their income. We don't know at the moment, except that if you're a hairdresser for example, you could take some kind of loan or get a state guarantee. It doesn't bring bread on the table. It doesn't help that person. We are interested in what the government is planning to do in this area, how these people can be helped and how this can be reflected in budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U109	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to transfer drafts and enquiries. On behalf of the board, I have adopted two inquiries and two draft laws. The Management Board of the Riigikogu deals with them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Incoming check, please! 70 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 31.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U110	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the second reading of the draft Act on ratification of the Baltic Air Surveillance Network and Management System Arrangement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic of Lithuania and the Government of the Republic of Latvia (137 SE). I'd like to ask Alar Laneman, member of the National Defence Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U111	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft Act ratifying the Baltic Air Surveillance Network and Management System Arrangement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic of Lithuania and the Government of the Republic of Latvia was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 27 January 2020. The first reading of this draft was completed on 26 February. No amendments to the draft were tabled by the deadline for tabling amendments, including 11 March at 5 p.m. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading, including at its meeting on 13 April. At this meeting, the National Defence Committee unanimously approved the draft text and explanatory memorandum at second reading. The National Defence Committee made a linguistic specification on a proposal from the Commission's Secretary-General. As a result of the specification, the text of the draft amended the date and the location of the year and the abbreviation 'a' was written as 'year'. The language specification in the text of the draft is underlined. The objective and importance of the agreement to be ratified now. The agreement will start the implementation of the Baltic Air Surveillance Network and Control Systems to ensure airspace integrity through national (sorry for the use of abbreviation) CRCs (Control and Reporting Centers), which can replace each other if necessary. The conclusion of the new agreement will result in the closure of the multi-ethnic CRC in Karmelava, Lithuania, and the status of the CRC will be granted to national entities. The amendment will result in a reduction of the administrative burden for the three Baltic States by the additional unit currently located in Lithuania. It will also allow the preparation of national CRCs to begin, eventually to the second, next level, i.e. preparedness for crisis and conflict situations, and make the Baltic air surveillance network and management system more efficient. The latter is very important for security and national defence, both for Estonia and NATO as a whole. To sum up very briefly, we paid for four units together with the three Baltic States, one of which had real capacity, now we are going to pay for one, but there are three capable units in the Baltic States. Procedural decisions and proposals of the lead committee. At its meeting on 13 April 2020, the National Defence Committee decided unanimously to submit a draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 22 April 2020. On the basis of § 115 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act, the National Defence Committee decided at the same session to consensually propose to the Riigikogu that the draft be put to a final vote at second reading and adopted as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U112	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U113	Good manager and good waitress! Maybe the committee was talking about it. The agreement shall enter into force 90 days after its signature and the diplomatic channels have been agreed upon. But leaving this arrangement is relatively simple. If one side says he doesn't want any more, he'll be gone in six months. Isn't there a risk? I understand we're trying to do things together. At one point, maybe someone politically would like to leave. Was there a debate on this or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U114	Thank you. These risks were not discussed in the Commission. By promising a personal comment from what I've experienced so far, I don't think there's a risk either.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U115	Thank you. No further questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the 137th draft, and we are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act on ratification of the Baltic Air Surveillance Network and Management System Arrangement Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic of Lithuania and the Government of the Republic of Latvia (137 SE). Please take a stand and vote. 66 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U116	Today's second item is the continuation of the second reading of the Bill on Amendments to the Tobacco Act and to the Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity Excise Act (9 SE) initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like Mr Mölder, President of the Social Affairs Committee, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U117	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Let us move on to a subject that we have already dealt with very long before in this Chamber. Really, as you know, on 27 February, including here in the big hall, there was a second reading of Bill 9. The commission then proposed to suspend the second reading, which was also approved by the large hall. We went on to set a new deadline for the submission of amendments, which was 5 March. Indeed, amendments and opinions were received at that point. Amendments came from two members of the Riigikogu and opinions from market participants as well as from the leading sub-unions of Estonian medicine. Once in a while, we will go back to 9 March when we discussed these amendments and the referrals. Indeed, in particular, we focused on the amendments made by the members of the Riigikogu in the name of this debate, which focused on e-cigarettes, the whole issue of smells, tastes, sales languages, both in the e-environment and in the shop. This was a point of discussion. We certainly also discussed the issue of e-commerce, whether all the accessories we use for new tobacco products go under tobacco products or whether such e-widgets are actually technology or so. There was a wider debate and there were also different views. There were certainly representatives of various medical organizations on the ground. The question they may have raised most acutely was still what the whole Committee on Social Affairs actually shares, that any tobacco product, no matter which item or thing containing tobacco is clearly not beneficial for health, it is harmful products. We understand the doctors' desire to draw attention to this. We, of course, as the Commission, recognise that banning products will not make their consumption any lower, then there will be a black market. We have rather gone this way so that this thing is better regulated and that the situation is under control in this respect. One of the important issues that I would also like to mention, to which the doctors drew attention several times and which also exceeded the media threshold, is the assertions, as if the Social Affairs Committee and perhaps some others would like to bring tobacco gum, sweets or pastille-like products containing tobacco on the Estonian market with this bill. Once again, this is neither the substance nor the purpose of this draft, and this was clearly emphasised by the Committee on Social Affairs. All the concerns or thoughts that the ministry or other professional associations had in this regard, we eliminated and described the situation as accurately as possible in the explanatory memorandum. There was also a long debate on other amendments or letters. One issue concerns the traceability system and its implementation in order to give market participants a reasonable time. Today we agreed that this reasonable time would be 120 days after the adoption of this law. As I said, on 10 March we also took all the decisions on the amendments and decided to propose, in a consensual manner, that the draft be put on the plenary agenda on 19 March, that the second reading be stopped and that the draft be sent to third reading. But, as you know, in the meantime, the situation has changed considerably in Estonia and elsewhere in the world, and on this March day, this bill did not arrive at the second reading of the large hall. In April our rhythm of work returned to normal, and we will now continue to deal with other laws, we have discussed these issues in the two meetings of the Commission, and we have asked for the draft to be sent back to the large hall again. The most recent debate was still on Monday this week, when we really discussed it again, we specified and discussed the date of implementation in particular, because time had shifted in the meantime. Once again, we reached consensus on decisions to put the draft on the agenda today, to deal with it and, when the second reading is completed, to send it to third reading on 4 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U118	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U119	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I have also been to some meetings of the Committee on Social Affairs myself, and this was the moment in which we also need to inform Europe. Last week, the Ministry of Social Affairs took the notification. How will we proceed with this situation and how will we proceed with the draft once Europe has already been informed that the Estonian state will allow e-liquids with menthol flavours?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U120	This debate, concerning information, did not come very much to the Commission in the intervening period. I think we had this debate before we stopped reading the second reading. Once again: the law states very clearly that the Riigikogu itself has no right to make this information. If the Ministry wishes to do so, it will forward this request to the people of MKM who are centrally involved in informing it in Estonia. If you say so, in the meantime, this notification has been made, I believe you. I don't have the official letter and the address that the Ministry has made. But we will take note of this information, and if Parliament has the will to go to the end of this matter, we will go to the end, whether or not the Ministry has made a notification in the meantime.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U121	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U122	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Why don't you give me a few words? In the Commission, I understand there was talk about the use of tobacco-like products, border trade and everything else. What, then, was finally decided in the Commission, promised and not allowed by this new amendment to the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U123	Thank you. We are, however, very clearly regulating the side of novel tobacco products, and very clearly saying what smells and tastes of e-liquids are allowed. This is where we are talking only about menthol. In no way did we want to go to this land, whether a product is smoke-free or smoke-free. We have said very clearly that the law already gives these opportunities and, in fact, it is the producer's responsibility to classify this particular product. As a parliament, we did not want to write down the law so precisely whether one product is that or the other. We still want to give these opportunities and rights to the Estonian state agencies. In fact, there is a huge role and responsibility for manufacturers here. I would like to emphasise once again: this talk or argument, which in some cases remained here, that with this draft we are allowing the market to have novel tobacco products that are somehow candy-like, pastille-like, no, that is not what we want and that will not follow the adoption of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U124	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U125	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! How should we deal with nicotine pillows that are not presently visible in the cigarette counter, are they tobacco products or are they not tobacco products? In the event that nicotine pads prove to be a tobacco-like product or so, I see that you have here § 49 "Use of a tobacco product or a product similar to a tobacco product in a prohibited place'. Can you imagine how the restaurant staff will question all the customers that you have in your mouth, whether you have a nicotine pillow or you have chewing gum, and how the police will deal with it if, for example, a person swallows this nicotine pillow? How will it later be determined if there was chewing gum or a nicotine pillow or if a person came from a dentist? I think you have consensually discussed this in the Committee on Social Affairs in isolation and precisely discussed it, and the Ministry of Social Affairs has come with very precise and wise knowledge. At the same time, for example, chewing gum, which contains nicotine, how is it, can it be chewed in a room or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U126	Thank you. As I said, we have not signed up for specific products in this law. However, there is a very clear regulation here and the manufacturer himself can be classified specifically for this product. It must meet the conditions laid down by law and stated on the label, and the manufacturer is responsible for this. We have the competent authorities in Estonia who can assess whether this product meets these requirements or does not meet these requirements. If the product does not reply, it is not allowed to be sold. This example, which you have given us, whether and how our law enforcement authorities or the police are somehow going to control what people are using or not, I think there is common sense, common sense, and I believe that it exists for the people of Estonia, and it certainly exists for these institutions as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U127	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U128	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am constantly puzzled and confused as to why only menthol is allowed. And the question to you: did you get the answer at the committee meeting, who, and based on what analysis, decided that only the menthol was a taste worth allowing, but the rest of the flavors were indescribably harmful and bad and they had to be banned?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U129	Thank you. I realized that in the case of e-cigarettes, we're not talking about one flavor or smell, we're talking about 20 or more flavors and smells. There was a wish, it was at least during the debate in the Commission that e-cigarette could, to some extent, be a product encouraging the transition from regular cigarettes to alternative tobacco products, which could be safer for human health on the basis of some studies. Indeed, if we take this conventional cigar, there is actually a cigar and a cigar or smoke with menthol taste, and there was one argument why we chose the menthol in the Commission to ease or facilitate this transition. It was such a debate. The second, which certainly speaks in favour of this, was that these amendments were made in very different ways, but it seems to us that the taste and smell of menthol is perhaps the easiest to fix.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U130	Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U131	Good chairman of the sitting! Dear waitress, If you don't mind, I'm gonna jump back to this briefing procedure. I've had it in my brain that this notification procedure has been discussed for a long time in this Chamber, too. Different information about Tarmo Kruusimäe and your mouth remained. I would very much ask that if this second reading goes on, that you find out before the third reading. We often speak very clearly, however, that cutting red tape is a priority. If there is no need for such a procedure, why is such a procedure still being carried out?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U132	Thank you. I have to admit that we have had a very constructive debate between the Ministry and Parliament throughout the procedure on this draft, and on many issues we have not found a consensus. One point where we have not found consensus was whether or not we have fully transposed the directive. Here Parliament held a different opinion; it says that the directive has not been transposed, at least that part of the Committee on Social Affairs really thought so. The second place was this side of the communication. The Committee on Social Affairs considered that it was unreasonable to make such a notification, that there is no need to make such a notification if we are to transpose the directive and make no distinctions there, and that it is enough to inform us when we have adopted this draft. Once again: if the Ministry considered such a notification to be necessary, Parliament cannot oblige them to make such a notification, but it cannot prohibit them from doing so either. So I say, in my opinion, also in the last second reading debate, which was interrupted, that what concerns information and information in relation to the transposition of directives at all, I think, is a place that might perhaps be worth reviewing more widely in this House. I do not think it is quite right for Parliament to have no right to inform Europe itself, and on the other hand, it also seems unfair to me that the Ministry is putting Parliament's work to a halt and saying that Parliament must not process this law, because we are now dealing with communication. I may now be very disbanded, but it even seems to me that it is not very constitutional, that somehow legislative power stands when executive power says stop, you must not do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U133	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U134	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The subject of e-cigarettes has been dealt with by various draft laws in this hall once and already in the previous composition. There have been a lot of expressions in the style 'The Ministry of Social Affairs has taken a stand', 'Health Board thought' and so on. My question: has the Health Board or the Ministry of Social Affairs presented to the Commission the competent studies carried out in Estonia to prove that alternative tobacco products, i.e. e-cigarette in particular, are as harmful as conventional cigarettes?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U135	Thank you. If the question is whether research has been carried out in Estonia, then the answer is no. However, the Health Board and the Ministry have repeatedly presented us with different views of Estonian doctors, including the Estonian Association of Lung Doctors. Once again, they point out that there are various studies in the world that point to one side and the other, but this issue has not been discussed to the end. But since your question was so clearly defined, my answer to you (by memory) is short: no.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U136	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U137	Good manager! Good waitress! You mentioned earlier that officials would say what to do. I ask whether you also told officials and ministerial people in the Commission that we have a parliamentary state and decide on Parliament. I also received an e-mail from an official yesterday that the extra budget is not an obligation for him, it is our own lobby of Members. I hope next week this person doesn't work in the state system. How do you, in the Committee on Social Affairs, continue to be so that if one official on a relatively high level, I understand, the person in one ministry says that you do not deal with it, then the bill will stop? Or are you of the opinion that there is still a parliamentary order in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U138	Thank you. Once again, I am of the opinion that in the Estonian state Parliament is still very..., if not said, the highest body at the legislative level. And once again, executive power cannot hinder our work. But once again, we have adopted this regulation ourselves, we have set ourselves these limits, that we have no right to prohibit, order or do ourselves. And, indeed, I say once again: we in the Commission came to this view that in Parliament, if there is such a wish, I see that there is a wish, we will go to the end of this bill, whether the Ministry is making a notification or not making a notification. We found that there was no need to make a notification. As for whether or not an official will work in the future, here I am putting it to you, Aivar, that it is not a good thing that the unemployment rate in Estonia is still rising rapidly, and we ourselves, as a country, should not encourage it in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U139	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U140	Thank you. Good Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee! I'm going to ask you about this: do you not see this danger at the moment that the Government of the Republic will at some point withdraw this bill and say that, unfortunately, it is not the very draft that we have given you in the proceedings that you have introduced such changes here that do not suit us?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U141	Thank you. We have discussed this issue several times in the Commission, and this issue has also been asked several times by the new Minister for Social Affairs, Tanel Kiige. Tanel Kiik has said that what is being done with this draft is the will and desire of Parliament, he respects Parliament's will and wish, and he does not have such intention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U142	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U143	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, However, by risking the criticism of colleagues who are better at the moment, I am asking. You said the Commission picked out the menthol flavor. How exactly did this choice go? Can you remember that? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U144	Thank you. It was like laughing and smiling on this side of the hall, but the question is actually very correct. Because when we reached this debate about whether or not one tobacco product is on fire or whether or not it is smoking or not smoking, we had a pretty serious dispute in the Commission. Some of the guests who were invited to the Commission really wanted to demonstrate it to us, but we did not want to see this demonstration, because I have to be honest, it is not our competence either. Our own committee acknowledged that we do not have such knowledge or skills to evaluate a single product, whether it is smoking or not. If we now go to this menthol, I will continue to come to this debate on regular cigarettes. There's a menthol flavor that's banned. We are proposing an e-cigarette solution so that there can be a smooth transition. That's why the menthol. Once again, people's sense of smell and taste is different, but I think we can all understand and understand menthol.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U145	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U146	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! To note, of course, my privilege of attending a meeting of the Social Affairs Committee, I certainly want to congratulate you as chairman of the committee. At least at this session there was no "officials' power over the Members of Parliament; rather, there was a dispute between the members of the Commission itself. So I think that criticism is inappropriate. As far as information is concerned, I would like to remind my fellow Members that we have had this debate. At the end of the previous term, [the procedure] was the law on the flag and registration of ships and it was clearly known that information was necessary. The Riigikogu processed it to the end, finished the second reading, also accepted it, and only then came the position of the European Commission. So we have created this practice, and I will, in any case, support this path. Power!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U147	Thank you. And thanks for the compliments! This is certainly a recognition for the whole Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U148	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U149	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Perhaps you will comment on why you do not support distance selling. I mean, in this emergency situation, it would be a huge response to people who can't move on their own.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U150	Thank you. As far as the Commission and distance selling are concerned, this debate focused in particular on alternative products and products that allow tobacco consumption at all, in particular on these devices. If the device is battery-powered, is the charger a tobacco product or not? My understanding is that it isn't. The Ministry of Social Affairs also said that they are ready to dissect this subject in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, that what is tobacco product and what is not and whether the device used for tobacco consumption is a product or not, including, I don't know, a battery and such. As far as the emergency situation is concerned, I understand that here we have based ourselves on a general good principle that we treat all vices in the same way, that it is not possible to order them home from a very e-environment. There are differences here, but I don't think it's right in that sense. Here we could have a common and common principle that if we have imposed a restriction on one harmful product, it could apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U151	Thank you, honourable entrepreneur. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Waitress, waitress, yes. But a waitress may in some cases also be an entrepreneur. No further questions for you. Okay. Now we're opening negotiations. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U152	Good vice chairman! Good coworkers! Anna Wound said this: "Thinking must last to death. ' Or was it different? But that is exactly how you actually heard the legislator essentially decide, despite the fact that he was wanted to be made of wood and red: no, we are doing otherwise. I have been asked by quite a lot of foreign people, both representatives of alternative tobacco products and others, what is going on there in Estonia, why you have decided in this way. I have answered them quite sincerely: forgive us, we have a new Riigikogu, which means that people and ambassadors do not yet share this parliamentary responsibility and they trust what the so-called specialists from the Ministry have brought to them and wept them, they take it a priori as pure gold. Because the sacred grail is in our ministry, whether the ministry officials have committed a sacred crusade against something or whether they are simply quite lacking in competence. Because they do, too. A good colleague, Madis Milling, has just referred to these studies. Over 500 official studies have been conducted at the Royal Academy of England. We also sent the Commission materials that the chairman of the committee did not really want to add to the official material. But all kinds of salt blowers came along, and, you know, the doctors thought what they might think, or they might know what someone had said somewhere. One absolutely incredible news that will probably spread in a few days' time is that some kind of anomaly is: those people who smoke, and those who are now COVID-19 dead, these figures do not match. It is said that the biggest risk group is those who smoke today or use alternative tobacco products. They're a lot less sophisticated. I'm not urging anyone to start smoking right now, but it's kind of an anomaly. I think maybe if we find an antivirus for this virus, or what it is that we're looking for, right? We'll get an answer to that. In my opinion, there is a multi-headed hydra in the Ministry of Social Affairs and one head is probably cut today: heated tobacco products can be properly transposed as a directive. Yes, the situation is difficult for e-cigarette users, because somewhere came up with such a wise idea that the idea, mmmes, mmmentool was allowed to menthol. There's no argument, but there's no argument. That is what really shows this competence, understanding, and knowledge. There is also talk about the principle of equal treatment. The heated tobacco product has cherry, lemon, blackcurrant and menthol and all other flavours, the directive prohibits the use of heated flavours. But in the case of e-things, we decide to have only mmmenthol. Mmm-hmm. Well, we could call it mm-mmm-hmm, not eucalyptus, not mint or mint, but mmmentol. I think we've taken a step forward. I asked Minister Kiige at the ELAK meeting on Monday, you will remember, also in this hall, from the Prime Minister and also in ELAK, whether it would be possible to allow national distance sales to e-cigarette shops at the moment when we have a special situation and we should avoid direct contact, which is whether it is more important to avoid direct contact or the prohibition of distance selling. It was sent to the Prime Minister's office and the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Minister said that within a month they have not yet been able to deal with it at all, and said that the crisis is about to pass. We're talking about grown-up products, and here's the fear that maybe young people and minors will see it. If you take off your computer, you should know that pornography and its distribution are forbidden, and any young person can see it. The e-cigarette store's people offered to identify with an ID card, but, well, what do they do? I think we've got half the victory, chop the next hydra head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U153	Thank you. Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U154	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't look at things as emotionally as a good colleague before, but I would like to draw attention to some things. As I said in my question, this alternative tobacco saga has been going on for a long time. After all, he started in the previous composition. I have been in quite a number of meetings of the Social Affairs Committee, where the expression 'probably', 'probably', 'we have taken a stand' and so on. Perhaps the view has been taken that alternative tobacco products, or more specifically electronic cigarettes, are still harmful, and see that they are as harmful as conventional tobacco. At the same time, there is still no study in Estonia that would say this, unlike in the rest of the world, where these studies have been carried out very much. It is strange that we are still trying to take a step and take the post from Western Europe, to follow suit, but if the subject goes against a position, it is as if it is not supposed to follow the example of Western Europe. Such a selective attitude. Mr Kruusimäe, a good colleague here, spoke earlier about distance selling, and the chairman of the committee also pointed out a contradiction with regard to the classification of products, whether the battery and charger of an electronic cigarette is a tobacco product or not. This is getting absurd. If we take the view that all the accessories are tobacco products, then we should also put matches under the counter, for example, because matches relate to smoking. The home supplies department, where there are dishes, should collect ashtrays because they relate to smoking. Maybe it's gotten a little absurd. Instead of carrying out one competent survey in Estonia or taking as a basis a survey of western Europe carried out by competent organisations, we continue to swim in the water and officials use the terms 'presumably','maybe', 'we are of the opinion'. Actually, it's simple. A very high-level Estonian official said the following sentence to me at the Social Affairs Committee: 'But you know, I just don't like the move to smoke this electronic cigarette, it reminds me of real smoking. ' And it is as simple as that. One official's crusade, and now we have to deal with it. It's unfortunate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U155	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish for negotiations. Six amendments to the draft have been tabled. We will examine these amendments together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, the position of the commission: take full account. The second amendment has been tabled by Tarmo Kruusimäe and Madis Milling, the position of the commission: to be disregarded. The third amendment was tabled by Tarmo Kruusimäe and Madis Milling, the position of the commission: to be disregarded. The previous proposal, as well as this proposal, shall not be voted in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act. The fourth amendment has been tabled by Tarmo Kruusimäe and Madis Milling, the position of the commission is also disregarded and is not to be voted on either. The fifth amendment, tabled by Tarmo Kruusimäe and Madis Milling, does not take into account the position of the commission and is not to be voted in the large Chamber. The last amendment, the sixth, the author's Social Affairs Committee, the position of the commission is to take full account of. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 9. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U156	Let's keep going. Today's third item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Working Conditions Act on Posted Workers to Estonia initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm going to ask Minister of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiige, as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U157	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I present to you a draft law transposing Directive 2018/957 of the European Parliament and of the Council amending also Directive 96/71/EC on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. Estonia and other Member States of the European Union are required to transpose this Directive by 30 July inclusive. In addition, the draft amends to ensure that Estonian law is more closely aligned with the earlier Directive 96/71/EC and the Implementing Directive 2014/67/EU on posted workers, and resolves problems encountered in practice. More specifically, the draft amends the Working Conditions Act for Workers posted to Estonia, which states who is an employee posted to Estonia and which working conditions are applied to him while working in Estonia. Under the law, posted workers are all workers who come to Estonia as part of the free movement of services from a Member State of the European Union, a Member State of the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation to work for the performance of an agreement concluded between an employer and an Estonian subscriber, or to work in an employer's branch or in a company belonging to the same group as the employer, or even if they are temporary agency workers. For example, the posted worker is an employee who his Latvian employer has decided to send to the customer in Estonia to work. The rules on working and rest periods established in Estonia, the duration of annual leave and the minimum wage requirement apply to the posted worker. If you look at the figures, according to the Labour Inspectorate, 3 509 posted workers worked in Estonia last year. This number is not large, but it is a clear growth trend, and in 2018 the same figure was 2581 and in 2017, 1221 - the equivalent of 1000 - has been added each year. The more detailed amendments that we are making to transpose Directive 2018/957 are as follows: Firstly, we specify that the posted temporary agency worker, which is being seconded by the user undertaking when offering services, is also a posted worker. Perhaps the posted worker is therefore also an employee, whose employer is, for example, a Polish temporary agency, which rents the employee to a Latvian user company, which in turn dispatchs the employee to provide the service to Estonia. According to the current law, the legal status of such posted workers is not regulated, i.e. unclear, which could lead to failure to comply with the different provisions of the respective law, i.e. the Working Conditions Act of the posted worker. The second principle is that the posted worker must be paid the salary in force in Estonia and the expenses related to the posting must be reimbursed in accordance with Estonian law. Thus, in addition to the minimum wage, the posted worker must be paid a fee for working on a public holiday, for night work and also for transport and overnight accommodation expenses in the case of an intra- Estonia mission, and for daily subsistence allowances in the case of an external mission. According to the current law, only the payment was due or due, this applies to the minimum wage, and Estonian law does not apply to travel expenses. Thirdly, we are introducing regulation on long-term deployment. After 12 or 18 months of working in Estonia, the posted worker must be subject to Estonian labour law as a whole, neither the rights and obligations relating to the conclusion and termination of employment contracts nor the occupational pension schemes must be applied. The staff member may stay in the country of destination for a longer period as a posted worker, only the applicable law shall change. The 12-month period can be extended to up to 18 months, subject to a reasoned notification to the Labour Inspectorate. Looking back at statistical numbers: According to the Labour Inspectorate, the average period of stay of posted workers in Estonia in 2019 was 42 days. Perhaps this regulation on long-term posting is not expected to be widely used, since the vast majority of all postings are very short-term, 1 to 3 months, but the current law does not provide for such a regulation on long-term posting. The supervisory authority must take into account whether information on the working conditions of workers posted to Estonia is available on a single website for which the Labour Inspectorate is responsible and available or not. In the absence of information, you can also view the non-accessibility of this information as an attenuating circumstance in the sense of the Penal Code. The current law does not explicitly impose such a penalty, but the list of facts is not exhaustive in the Penal Code. In addition, we amend by law some of the other problems identified in practice with the application of the earlier directives, i.e. the application of Directives 96/71/EC and 2014/67/EU. First of all, we remove the restriction that the customer of the service in Estonia can only be a resident of Estonia. For example, if a company providing services in Estonia, which is not a resident of Estonia, uses workers hired from Bulgaria to produce or provide the service in Estonia, it is a worker posted to Estonia, who must also be paid the remuneration provided for in Estonia. Today's situation could theoretically lead to a situation where an employee cannot be considered a posted worker and cannot be required to pay Estonian wages either. By this point, we will once again clarify the legal framework. Secondly, an obligation is imposed on the employer to keep the information on posted workers relevant and to notify the employee's identity document number by notifying the Labour Inspectorate of the posting. This is once again such a practical concern that there are no situations with namesakes or people born on the same date. The document number clearly provides a better identification of each individual worker. The current law does not include such obligations and, in practice, makes supervision somewhat difficult. In addition, we will shorten from seven years to three years the period during which the Labour Inspectorate may request the documents necessary for monitoring the posting after the end of the posting. Practice shows that in fact the need for seven years to keep documents simply does not exist, they are not required anyway. Three years have been chosen according to the logic that the limitation period for the employee's salary claim is the same. This can be considered reasonable and sufficient time. Given, too, as I pointed out earlier, that on average we are talking about one- to three-month periods when working here, it is probably not proportionate to keep the documents seven years after that. In addition, the level of the fine for breaches of working conditions will be increased. From now on, it will be 32000 daily base units for legal persons, 300 daily base units for natural persons. The existing penalty rate may simply not be sufficiently effective. In the case of a legal person, the law provides for an essentially 10-folding of today's 3200, i.e. to 32,000. In the case of a natural person, it was 200 fine units, increasing to 300, which is 1.5 times in the future. I'm done with that. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U158	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U159	Thank you. Thank you for introducing this bill. This is certainly important for posted workers to be viewed as equally as possible with local workers. But I have a question about the fact that if the current provision requires the employer to ensure that posted workers are paid at least the minimum wage established in Estonia, then now the'minimum' is removed from that wording. I understand that the minimum rate of pay is so-so-so-so-so-so-so-called mandatory, it stays. However, if we have sectors covered by a collective agreement and where a minimum is set in the same way, will it be the obligation that, if there is a collective agreement in the field, the minimum of the collective agreement must be paid to those posted workers as well, or will they be left out of it by its wording?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U160	Thank you. That's a very good question, quite frankly. Indeed, the aim is not to create a situation where we are obliged to pay only the minimum wage. The point is that there may be additional legal obligations when we talk about working on holidays, for example, and just as we talk about various extended collective agreements. Let us give an example of medical professionals (I am close to my heart in this area). Then, according to what has been agreed in the collective agreement between the employer and the trade union, it is guaranteed to him, the posted worker, a higher minimum income than the national minimum wage would have provided for.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U161	Natalia Malleus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U162	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. I have this question: if a worker posted to Estonia has a bigger problem with health during his or her period of secondment, which requires longer treatment, such as an accident at work or even a heart attack or stroke, will the Estonian Health Insurance Fund pay for the treatment in full or will only first aid be paid?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U163	Here, in fact, if he is registered correctly, he is entitled to all health care services in the country, not only emergency care. To this end, a specific application form must be completed. For example, if he stays on a disability page or such a health fund, his country of destination will pay. Otherwise, if he or she receives treatment in another country, the sickness funds will settle each other according to the country in which he or she has paid his or her social security contributions, i.e. where he or she has contributed health insurance funds.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U164	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I ask Signe Riisalo, member of the Social Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U165	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On Tuesday, 14 April at its meeting, the Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Working Conditions Act for Posted Workers to Estonia submitted by the Government of the Republic. The Social Affairs Committee heard a presentation by the Minister of Social Affairs, followed by a brief round of questions and answers, in which the Head of Labour Relations Policy of the Ministry's Labour and Pension Policy Department, Marilis Proos, participated. The Commission reached the following decisions by consensus: to appoint a rapporteur here, to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 22 April, i.e. today, to propose the completion of the first reading and to set ten working days by which amendments should be tabled.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U166	Thank you, dear waitress. However, there are questions. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U167	Thank you. Did the Commission also discuss the fact that if an employee comes to Estonia simply for short-term work, if he applies for a residence permit, we would like this worker to be paid at least an average salary, but we do not require this in the case of posted workers? Is this unequal treatment of workers justified, and what effect does this distinction have on the Estonian labour market?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U168	Good colleague! You started with the question of whether it was discussed in the committee. The honest answer is that this was not discussed in the Commission. I wouldn't make a personal assessment right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-22_U169	Thank you. There really are no more questions now. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission has proposed that the first reading of the draft 158 be completed. That concludes the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 7 May at 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 3.07 p.m.
