ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the extraordinary session of the Riigikogu, which I have convened in accordance with § 68 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and § 51 (1) of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure Act, at the time and on the agenda requested by 42 members of the Riigikogu. As always in the run-up to each sitting, there is an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, We went to Saaremaa in June. In Saaremaa, where the main centre of this health crisis was, it turned out that no one would collect these lessons or ask those questions that went wrong in resolving this crisis, which went right, which should be done differently next time. That is why we have proposed to the Government of the Republic to set up an expert COVID-19 crisis resolution committee to find out these lessons to avoid making these mistakes the next time, which went right, which went wrong, and that when the second wave comes, we would be ready to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U3	Thank you. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I am giving the Riigikogu a draft law amending the law on atmospheric air protection, which aims to significantly increase public climate investment. In fact, during the new trading period in the European emissions trading system, Estonia has 56 million units to sell over the decade, which is between 1.1 and 1.4 billion euros on the basis of today's CO2 price. Estonia has legalised the minimum requirement of the directive, according to which 50% of this money will go to meet its climate objectives. Given the acute nature of the climate crisis and also the fact that the European Union is gratefully raising ambition in the fight against climate warming, the agreement on climate neutrality has been reached, the draft climate law is in agreement at European Union level, we believe that Estonia should do more to actually be able and obliged to invest more in climate change, to limit the extent of climate warming. Consequently, we are proposing that this draft spend 100% of the revenues from the sale of climate units on climate objectives, which means that more than half a billion euros should go in the course of the decade to achieve these objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U5	Thank you. There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. We're conducting a presence check. I am going to say that as long as you are able to register your presence, I have adopted two drafts on behalf of the Riigikogu Board and we will process them in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. 92 members of the Riigikogu are present and there is no 9. Pursuant to § 52 of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, the Riigikogu establishes the working schedule of the extraordinary session by a majority of votes in favour. I will put to the vote the proposal of the Riigikogu Board to work without a break until the agenda is exhausted. Please take a stand and vote. 89 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U6	We will go to today's item on the agenda: First reading of the draft law amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party (alleviation of the labour crisis). I'll introduce you to the rules of procedure. First, the author of the draft is given the floor, and the presentation lasts up to 20 minutes. There will then be a presentation by the representative of the commission, which will also last for up to 20 minutes. To both rapporteurs, honourable members of the Riigikogu, you can ask two questions together. Following negotiations, representatives of the political groups will get the floor. Please present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U7	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, We have called you here today in an emergency because of the emergency situation. The economy has been restricted in the form of a barrier to the free movement of workers. In this way, none of the companies that depend on labour mobility can plan or actually continue to operate. There are many such companies, in very different areas. Size classes we are talking about: a year has recently been a short-term labour force of 15 000 to 20000 [people], of which three quarters are Ukrainians. The areas that use them most (i.e. thousands, I am not going to tell you the exact numbers because they are changing well, but basically the main part of the temporary workforce): construction, industry, as well as storage and transport. There are only about a tenth or less of them in agriculture, so we are not talking only about agriculture. These figures show that there is an absolute shortage of labour in Estonia, but in all circumstances there is a structural shortage of labour in Estonia. We simply do not get employees in every sector from Estonia and many [economic] branches are necessarily dependent on it. This is also a feature of the modern economy. While absolute unemployment in the crisis is decreasing in number, it remains structural. Employers say that we need to bring in 10,000 workers a year over the next ten years. That's not what we're talking about here. I do not think that this is a sustainable development path. We do not advocate it, although we do need to know the estimates, and employers are not the only ones who have highlighted it, the number of people of our working age is decreasing, but we still need to adapt to it first and foremost. However, the situation is simply exceptional and the government has not really left any room for adaptation. The content of this draft is to extend the work permits for people who have worked here since the start of the emergency situation. Just to extend it. It is a pity that this bill has been blocked. It has been sought to process [start] only in the autumn, the latter has also been taken by the Commission, but it is actually very urgent. The statistics [of which], which are currently taking place in the market within the framework of this draft, are broadly such that work permits will end in the coming months in construction in the order of 500-700 people per month. Hundreds of people, in short, are going out of construction and, of course, the sector cannot replace them operationally. In the accommodation it is the number 50.100, in agriculture 200.300 every month, in industry 250.500, in the transport sector 150 people per month. Helir-Valdor Seeder, for example, has rightly said that this bill does not solve the problem. He's not gonna solve it. After all, the problem is in fact the government, the restrictions imposed by the government and the fact that the government operates on the basis of the lowest common denominator: if anyone opposes it and does not even justify it, then everything is against. At the moment, however, we can see the hope that not everyone will object. Two sections of the government have recently spoken of a completely intelligent story about how the normal economic situation needs to be restored. Nothing more than a normal situation, it doesn't mean mass immigration. The problem is simply that there is a season in certain areas. And in agriculture, I'm not ashamed to use that word for a tragedy. Here, the production cycle does not ask about any party obsessions and how the government works, how intelligently it explains its actions, whether it listens and whether it talks. Planting, sowing, cutting, also milking, these are just parts of the production cycle, different stages. There is no way that it will be subjected to the political will for us to simply say at short notice: listen, now we are pulling together. But that, by the way, has unfortunately been said by several government politicians. Unfortunately, the earliest fruitage in this crisis has been strawberries, in that sense it is symbolic, but of course it is not the main problem. The main problem is in other sectors, but here this delay has been the most tragic, most painful. You can see the government teasing the field at once, mocking the food and teasing its citizens. We have been discussing this in committees and here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu since March and April. We have repeatedly asked different ministers in different committees and in a large Chamber and have largely received a denial of the problem in response. In this sense, June or even July has been a small relief, the government has at least begun to make a face that it discusses something intensely, as the headlines say. But, unfortunately, the picture of their comments so far is that it is thought that we are still living in Soviet times, that people are simply being planted from one office to another and that the economy is being planned. Unfortunately, the Commission's debate has also been delayed for a long time, some plans and some analyses were expected from us, although there are actually official statistics, both in the draft explanatory memorandum and in the draft authors have more recent statistics. That's not the main thing, which is the exact number of the moment. It is known that certain areas cannot function in such a way that labour is simply pulled away and sent away. The point of this bill is to stop being sent. I have to stop for a while now, unfortunately, on strawberries, because here the results are the most tangible. I'm describing how in these months I've had contacts almost every day, of course, electronically mostly with farmers who grow strawberries. It's just that this is the fruit we already have and we're already cutting, literally and unfortunately also in a negative, indirect way. Some examples. They've been picked up from about a dozen tutors, but I'll bring out the more characteristic ones. The first example. Forty-five people applied for work. They usually need a hundred foreign workers, those who have sent their messages. Half of them turned out to be 23 years old. In every area, it must be remembered that there are requirements for work and labour. It is not worth undermining any area, that any person can be taken there and said to be able to cope. At the time of the formalisation of the job, two out of the 23 remained. Another example, which I think is numerically best, most optimistic, but very small in absolute numbers: agreement was reached with 10 people and 6 appeared at work. That's the biggest number. The third example. Within a month and a half 97 people have visited, 62 of them gave up after the first day, and the 35 on the first day of the list appeared in field 18. It is plainly lamented that this group, who is available for strawberry harvesting, does not actually fulfill its promises, does not pick up the phone and does not call back. Much of the farmer's energy goes to catching people. There is nothing to do and there is nothing in common with the political will that has been strongly demonstrated here. In the case of Estonians, the percentage appears to be about a tenth. It's very similar, by the way, to the British: when patriotically promised in a time of great enthusiasm that the Brits would come to the field to pick strawberries, it was finally less than ten percent. A number of examples of how an application for employment was made at the unemployment fund resulted in zero replies. We hear the opposite news from the ministers all the time. They're just not true. In other channels, this call was described as being introduced to work on the telephone, living conditions, pay, being flexible in every way, it was said to be enough to go a few days a week, which is not actually sustainable in terms of production, but shows the size of the effort. It seemed to work out, but after a few days, it turned out that most were no longer interested in work. Most of them. It's dominant feedback. It is characteristic that no one is accustomed to calling back to announce a breach of his promise and to say that he cannot come. The reasons for those who are still caught are completely arbitrary. This will enable us to assess whether we can build our economy on such a random choice, an emergency solution. Optically speaking, it seems that the Soviets did, but they did not really get the jobs they did at that time either. Although there was an opportunity to give orders, working groups went on a massive basis [on field work], they abandoned their main work for a certain time. Problems called casual labour. Of course, labour productivity varies several times, but if you pick up on stage or keep some kind of job record, it has to be even and evenly high. Quality problems are lamented: they simply leave the berries to rot, which means that the whole field can be damaged. The details of how planting is done, I'm not going to repeat, but you might think that once it started at planting, the crops couldn't be what they were hoping for. However, in spite of all this chirping and catching individual people, training is needed every day. The more flowing the workforce, the more difficult it is to do so. After all, employees must be registered every time. Farmers are crazy about how they do empty work, which is not agriculture. It is common for Estonians to say that they can only come on Saturdays. But then the strawberries don't say that, they have to be picked up every day, there's nothing you can do about it. Many of the casual workers who get here are too early to start work because they are not sober. This is a characterisation, a social overview of the direct source. They're complaining of theft. There's more details. I'm not going to name everything. Let us not underestimate agriculture in the sense that it should accept what does not work anywhere else. Of course, there is a complete chasm between the speeches of several government politicians and real life. I only quote former and current ministers here, including agriculture ministers. After all, counsel has been given that students should go from school to the field. Luckily, the Minister of Education said something from his mouth. But that rejection could have been a lot stronger if they said the defense force should go into the field. It is a true Soviet Union, it is forgotten that the Defence Forces are to protect Estonia, not to collect crops. Very much has been said about chess, big work education, etc. In the case of work education, a home bed and a large field are still confused. The reality is that the Labour Inspectorate forbids children, minors, on stage, at least he has sent such a letter. I don't know its legal power, but it's a fact. You can't pick kids off the tractor stage, it's too hard work. The same is true of course, and this is reflected in the fluidity of the labour force. Estonians will not last many days if they go to try. Speaking of chess: it's certainly a nice job development, but if you ask the farmers, the answer is that its role is unfortunately non-existent. That doesn't solve the problem at all. Of course, all of us are well - known about the fact that young people come first and foremost to summer camps, and this financial aspect and work side only goes on there. Unfortunately, in the case of children, farmers also state that they are coming to consume drugs and live nightlife, which is a written fact, rather than a job. The average city child is still not used to working. That's how they write, I'm just quoting, I don't judge. Some children, as confirmed by one, picking up 6 kilos of strawberries all day long, even a video of it was sent to me, but the norm that allows the stage to be picked up is said to be 20 kilos per hour. Multiply and you'll find out the difference. I have heard from some farmers as if they had long working days, but in fact, picking is basically five or six hours in the morning cool and, if necessary, if there is nothing left unpicked, then on a cooler afternoon, but in general they are not even 8-hour working days in ideal conditions. Of course, the current situation is not ideal. There's still some wise advice. Someone's brought good news that sports clubs are coming to help. For God's sake, I'll tell you. Sports clubs are not about people leaving their hobbies behind. On the contrary, they want to do sport, not physical work instead. There has also been talk of students, which was also a nice council time, but it is still a very diffuse opportunity. After all, they are mostly urban youths who do not have any skills in agriculture. The Chamber of Commerce for Agriculture has been unusually critical of the government and says that seasonal workers are needed in agriculture longer than 31 July, which the government has promised, and which is also legalised. He also says that about 400 people must leave Estonia. In that case, there are no more farm workers, which means that 20,000 cows tend to stay milked. Other sources say that a third of dairyers are temporary migrant workers. It doesn't go along the way that we just... Is it possible to get more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U8	No, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U9	Now, unfortunately, I'm running out of time, but I hope to continue in the form of questions. I quote the ministers and the cockyness of the ministers. Martin Helme feels like he's in the field. He has mocked such sentences (it is just this uplifting by the government that makes it particularly painful) that it is the twisted thinking that the Riigikogu or the government must do the job for you, or that we have already made extensions for you in April and you are unable to adapt. Look, we've actually been talking about this since March...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U11	... farmers have been saying that since March. It's not like one minute they're saying you're not gonna make it. But okay, I'll try to keep it up in the form of answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U12	Thank you. Good waitress, you have a whole bunch of questions. The length of the question is one minute. First Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U13	Thank you very much, dear waitress, for a very constructive presentation. These farmers' concerns are really as great as you described. In today's press release, coalition politicians say that an additional constraint will be imposed on all foreign workers on average wages in the sector. But average wages in the sector are calculated taking into account wages from the Director's salary to, for example, that strawberry picker's salary. If the [theme] were to be raised here in the Riigikogu Hall so that all Estonians should be paid average wages, everyone would smile. How is it possible for a national decision to impose an average salary on a particular group of workers in one sector? What follow-up could it have on the export capacity of Estonian goods?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U14	Thank you. I find it very difficult to comment on this government decision. I was hoping to do this at the end of the report. This [decision] came this morning. It is obvious that the meetings of the government were involved in the organisation of our extraordinary sitting, because we have been pressing the government, in fact, since March. My correspondence, I am talking about, is from the beginning of April, there is no doubt that it exists in writing. This has been something that we have been constantly reminding the government for several months. In this sense, it is still a tremendous hypocrisy all this talk that where you were before, manage, we have long since done, in April, and how you cannot adapt and we don't believe in tears, we don't care about your tears. Of course, in the case of migrant workers, a generally conservative attitude is reasonable. We do not want to make a separate production site from Estonia, where people simply come to live and produce something. The economy needs to adapt to labour shortages. After all, productivity is also affected, it is an increase in productivity, but it must not be so sudden. Additional restrictions, if they're in a decision, as the news suggests, are, of course, extremely lame. A self-inflicted problem, an obsession, and then a reaction so everyone gets some kind of sausage. So this is obviously a rude sausage. I must also complain that the areas that are currently suffering extend to higher education. I don't know about science, I have to think about it. But the way the Head of Department of the Ministry of the Interior sends a letter to the universities that listen, and you will no longer have foreign students in the fall, is completely mystic, because higher education policy is usually done by the Ministry of Education and this policy has always been a contribution to the internationalisation of universities. Internationalization means quality when it is done in a reasonable way. Our universities do not want to replace Estonian students with foreign students, but it is natural to exchange ideas and people that keep higher education alive and competitive. The problem with today's decision, based on the comments we have made so far, is that we are expelling current employees. What does that mean? It still means that those poor people who were not able to create natural rotation so far, to replace workers, should actually say 'temporary workers', are still missing out. They must quickly start looking for new people, rather than filling this gap by preventing existing workers from being expelled in the event of a shortage. Of course, as far as we know, this concerns only seasonal workers, which is not the solution to the economy. Seasonal workers, as has been said, make up a tenth of this whole problem. So it's a distortion of the eye that the government did. He has not introduced this [decision] to us; he has not submitted any draft. We don't know exactly what he's gonna do, but the news tells us it's a change of eye. This slightly alleviates the situation in one sector, but this sector has already suffered serious damage.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U15	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U16	Thank you. Good waitress! This spring, a member of the government said that he did not believe the tears of his strawberry pickers, and another member of the government said that he would not shed tears for his farmers. The result of such extremely arrogant statements and, more generally, the very arroganic attitude of the government, as we well know, is a huge blow to many farms and this, of course, has a negative impact on rural areas in general. Familiar farmers say that this government is worse than one big crop. Let us take a look at this extraordinary decision taken by the government right before today's sitting. The public gets the impression that every department of government has made its own decision there. Have you understood exactly what the content of the agreement that was born today is? In part, you already said that this would not fully help, but is there any aspect where it could help, or what more should the government do, in addition to supporting the current draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U17	Thank you. In principle, the government should restore the current movement of labour. I cannot argue in any way with these safety measures, although it seems acoustically that there is an attempt to overdo it here, but yes, testing and quarantine, if necessary, must be accepted. At the same time, to tease one of the great characters of Estonian car sports, I say that it is still a joke if millions are spent bringing here an international rally with an audience (the hotels are already closed, I also missed my desired stay a week earlier than I needed a hotel), it is welcomed as a great heroism, how the government is still helping the Estonian economy and everyone, but the people who are working, not coming here as an audience, are overprivileged, if you could say so, for entertainment, are being driven out. It's not sincere, consistent or honest, it's still a sausage trade. Everyone makes a face, some say something about rhetoric, and some say something that they're all saying here, in other words, it's a little bit of a problem, and it's a lie. In many cases, it has been said that, to quote more ministers, we cannot... What's the wording again? I even have it written down. Martin Helme again: absolutely insane, you think we have to do your job. This is what you say to farmers in circumstances where farmers are distressed because they struggle for many! They struggle in the office and they struggle in the field and they struggle on the phone, and then the Minister of Finance comes and says it's crazy that we have to do your job, i.e. the government and the Riigikogu. Shame on you! In fact, governments have always had to make unpleasant decisions, but it has never been so that there is no substantive justification. There is no substantive justification for what has been happening here for several months and what has been done with this decision today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U18	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, After all, your idea that the pre-crisis situation should be restored with the movement of labour should come from this hall. I think that's what Helir-Valdor Seeder has said in public. But in the last interview, Roomet Ring answered the reporter's question when it was asked about the labour force that if the state is ordered to tell where people should work, this and the labour restrictions are actually the result of either dying out or shrinking out. There will be no additional positive solution. Do you share this view, or is some of this idea correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U20	I share this view, [it is] clearly Soviet time, that we simply draw and plant people. At some point, it is said that students should go from school to the field, then it is thought that agriculture is even a fine work education, right, children to the field. It is known that things today do not work that way, neither because of productivity nor because of restrictions that are clearly used in child labour. They talk about the military, they talk about sports clubs, like I read. The imagination of such a totalitarian society is still very strongly within this government. I cannot say this about all ministers, and certainly not about all politicians, but such an honest and sincere confession that this government is now doing bad things for the economy, I have not heard. The bravest one says that we have no consensus (as Tanel Kiik said), and the brave one says something about rhetoric. It's not about the rhetoric, it's about the substance. The point is that citizens are being taunted, the economy is being damaged, the field and food are being teased.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U21	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U22	Good manager! Good waitress! Finns are worried that Finnish hangers will not be picked, as 2,000 Thais and Thais will not be able to access. I don't know if you've ever seen a business like this in Värska, that they're gonna be picking up booze. But more seriously, many really have a bailiff around their necks when it comes to these strawberry brothers and strawberry kings. What do you think of this as the former finance minister? Yeah, a lot of people are in trouble with the tax authorities who kind of want to work black. Perhaps some of their debts should be extinguished or given the opportunity to go to work in the country as an important national activity, and by then they will not have a bailiff around their necks? There are tens of thousands of these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U23	Yes, to put it plainly, this has been one of the prevailing motives, which is complained of as a problem in the case of temporary labour: bailiffs. A lot of people call and ask, but they hang up the minute they say no, they can't work black. A decent farmer can't really afford to work black in this situation. There has always been such a border mediation in agriculture, but in the current situation, farmers have also been industriously slandered and threatened not to pay taxes, which is, if not a direct lie, a strong exaggeration. But this is just an example. They cannot take on those workers who have very serious problems who cannot actually show their pay. But I have stressed that agriculture must not be the last place where the labour that has been culled from somewhere else is being robbed. I'm sorry, but it is. Always, in every economy, there is a part of the workforce that is not wanted to work anywhere. We should not, no party should give the impression that agriculture must be able to produce with anyone. This is not the case, no employer must be humiliated. It still has its own requirements for workers, its own productivity requirements, its own competitiveness needs. As it was said, 6 kilos a day versus the norm of 20 kilos an hour is what is worth remembering. Not everyone is capable of it. The employee must be sober; he must not steal from his fellow workers; he must not poison the employer's dog. Such tiny details are simply given in the letters I have received since the beginning of April.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U24	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The whole developed world is actually fighting for capital and labor. Our government doesn't care about one or the other. I really liked your metaphor for the government's plan... eye damage. I am very surprised that both the Fatherland and the Centre Party have gone along with this disfigurement. He's shouting at the EKRE, but they're kind of silent, like they think they're okay. Question: do you see the slightest logic right now in order to extend the work permit for these short-term workers until the end of this year, as is the plan of the draft that we have tabled, the government will create a large wall, says come, but will build seven walls before these new arrivals? Let the employer pay for the transport, quarantine for two weeks, test, try, send home whatever you want. Is there any economic logic in this government's plan, or is it really just a illusion?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U26	Conformation has a very strong economic logic for the rulers themselves. In this way they hold their power and their wages, there is no doubt about it. However, as far as the fight for the labour force is concerned, the aim of this draft is not even set. I certainly don't want it to look like our future is migrant labour. Our present already depends in part, that's the point. We have done great damage to ourselves, created very large gaps in certain areas that cannot even function at the same level when we send people away. In this sense, there is no possibility of adaptation for certain sectors; they are simply flushed down. In fact, this wage subsidy also serves as a mockery. The trouble is trying to show that we're still doing something, but it's never really been about pay. There's an ad here that I can show anyone I want. Here, basically, wages have been doubled, critical on critical days were days before the marina, when the berries began to mature more proudly or more massively, the euro was offered for a kilo, which is the price of Finland. It didn't solve anything. Unfortunately, the latest news that unfortunately didn't get to you is from the farmers: 'I wrote off the first field on 24 June. ' On the 27th, there's a notice from the following farmer: 'Now I wore. ' Today I received a message and asked specifically what was the situation: 70% of the fields had to be written off, how many tons of strawberries were wasted. It's that person's life's work, it's not a joke. Several tens of tons, he wrote [in fact], I checked over several tens of tons of strawberries, so wrote one farmer. Everything has been tried to minimize, everything has been tried to ridicule and deny. But it's not just the strawberries, it's the same thing that happens to peas, the fields are not grassed, the planting is not done. The main thing, however, is that what the government is proposing at the moment is not to replace this bill. In fact, a much bigger decision is needed than this bill offers. But the government will reduce it to one sector with additional restrictions. By the way, what the government writes about transport to me, the farmers assure me they've never asked the government for transport. But they are told that neither the state can provide transport. The decision is the same that neither the State can provide transport. I didn't ask. Proper manufacturers are used to ensuring it themselves, ensuring accommodation also, they have invested a great deal to this end. However, a change in the situation that took place in a few months or essentially in days does not give them any opportunity to adapt.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U27	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U28	Good manager! Good waitress! You've been an outstanding minister. Imagine that you would be the Minister of Social Affairs and a large number of Ukrainian farmers have arrived and that there will be coronal or coronal spawns at their accommodations. So, what would you do?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U29	Thank you. I would have done a lot differently during the crisis, but the medical side was actually doing well in the crisis. I, as Minister of Social Affairs, even though I do not represent all the members of my party, would not have gone to the ravages of the Health Board, because they were quite disproportionate to their resources, and it was only in their area of administration that they did well. As Minister for Social Affairs, of course, I would have asked for these measures of trust, as is now being said, but farmers themselves have offered it (if only to talk about farmers) that there are conditions to ensure safety. This question is, of course, too late to read this bill, but the need for this bill and the delay in reading it will be on the conscience of the government coalition, because we did not delay it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U30	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Jürgen Ligi! A coalition minister has just spoken in Delfi that there is no reason to extend the contracts of foreign workers allowed in Estonia until the end of July in the light of the decision of today's Government of the Republic. He added that this is why the Riigikogu will also vote on the draft Reform Party that is being debated today, which aims to keep the foreign labour force already working in Estonia. Perhaps you, Jürgen Ligi, predict whether the coalition will really vote down our party's renewal bill? Where's the logic? I recall the question of a good colleague, Urmas Espenberg, who said that these new [workers] would come (I understood they would come) and that a new outbreak would explode from there. But those who are here are, as we know, healthy. Why, then, cannot these [permissions] be extended? I assume he supports this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U32	That's right. I think there was a strong logic in this speech, which is a lack of logic. This is an absolutely safe solution in terms of security that we offer. We're not even asking for more. But the real thing is that if you just leave the economy to fade away, let people go to work elsewhere, but not bring anyone here into areas where the Estonians have not wanted to go and still do not want to go, it is a dead end. The Chamber of Commerce also says that they have been talking about this for four months, more or less the same as we have here. It's been four months. Then the finance minister comes in and says, "Hey, we told you in April and how you didn't make it." We have spoken from March, farmers have been active since March. They sent desperate messages long before. After all, this government decision in April was only because these desperate messages began to spread, could not be ignored. Speaking of illogical, I kind of acknowledged Helir-Valdor Seeder, but it hurts to listen to the other way around when he's just talking on the radio full of time, how this bill doesn't solve any problem. There's no ambition to solve the whole problem! The whole problem is in the hands of the government, as much as the government has. As a small nation, we cannot say in any way that everything is in the hands of the government, nor do the great people, but this is an impertinent for me to ignore. The Riigikogu can now make one decision that the government has not yet wanted to make and that it did not do today. Today's decision, as far as it has been possible to understand the news, will in no way solve the problem in the economy as a whole, and there will be gaps in agriculture as well. I think someone here asked about it. If we start sending out people who do not have an extension on 31 July, then it is clear that there will be a gap. You can't fill it by just looking for a replacement right now. It hasn't worked so far. I have also heard from ministers such a message that it will not be in place on 31 July. However, a substantive decision was hoped for and a wider re-evaluation of the situation in the economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U33	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U34	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! In my opinion, given the great effort we make, for example, in the interests of entertainment or sport, to bring tourists, people into this country, it is completely absurd, incomprehensible, to impose additional restrictions on seasonal workers or to maintain those restrictions, which are in addition to qualifications[]. However, I would like to ask whether, given that our great goal is economic growth, economic development, the development of prosperity, on the other hand, independence, these aspects, such as technological progress over time, will increase or this problem will eventually disappear.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U35	Thank you. That's a good question. Such fluctuations in labour demand are unfortunately logical and it is very difficult to imagine that they will actually disappear. Robots in the field are not likely to be expected to this extent (not at competitive prices) so that we can predict that the impact of the production cycle on labour needs will disappear. One of the signs of improving well-being is that people no longer want to do certain jobs. The Estonians have it. When the President of the Riigikogu has said (I believe that I am not mistaken in any of the keywords) that your time is over, the business model based on slave labour, it was probably so, the time is over in Estonia, and he has used words such as'reliable', etc., it is very painful, frankly, if citizens are mocked by the state's second person by the profession, only by the profession. After all, this workforce is currently being fought by all countries, the closest one being Finland, but also Great Britain, Germany. How's their slave time? What did we want? What, a new Switzerland? We wanted a new Switzerland, didn't we? A quarter of the workforce is foreign labour. Or did we want Luxembourg? I may not be mistaken if I say that more than half of the workforce there is a result of penetration and temporary. These are the richest countries in Europe. I certainly do not want to copy this economic model, nor do I want to praise these party slogans, but each country is in some way specific and it is worth protecting its own specifics. We certainly do not want very big changes in the population; we want to give the economy the necessary adaptability. Right now, that power has been taken away.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U36	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, This morning we have been able to read in the media various statements from the leaders and ministers of the coalition party that who was then the author of the idea and solved the so-called labour problem, although it is clear that the government took urgent action because the opposition decided today to convene the Riigikogu in an extraordinary way. But when you read these plans and statements about what the government has decided that the borders are open and certain restrictions must be observed, you also touched on it in your report that this probably does not solve the whole problem. As a close associate with interest groups, you are certainly aware of the size of the gap caused by the workers who are present and who now have to leave at the end of the month, so-called labour force. On the other hand, we know that it is not possible to bring a new workforce here so quickly. In fact, there is limited movement, there are not enough flights, quarantine requirements may set conditions. My question and my proposal is this: would you also explain to the members of the coalition that the government's work is not complete, so it makes sense for us to leave the people who have worked here, who have been controlled, who are not bringing a new disease to the country? Of course, it is to be welcomed that we can bring more workers here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U38	Thank you. I didn't notice they were listening. In general, I would like to explain it all the time, and I have tried to say something new with strength on every question. But really, there's no security problem. The problem is the removal of the workforce. It does not go away because we say that new ones can now be accepted, because it has created a deficit that will not disappear. Of course, according to the news, we only talk about seasonal work; it only concerns the primary sector. This is not a comprehensive economic solution; it does not help industry; it does not help construction. I guess we went on a field trip, too, huh? Those who went to the companies probably heard (I heard) that you could see, we had to send the Ukrainians away again, the work permit was over. It is information coming from different areas, that gaps arise and that there is no immediate nipple to replace. Farmers may have been best prepared for this at all, they have known their seasons, they have made agreements and they have prepared everything, but it is too late for many.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U39	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U40	Thank you. Indeed, if you try to understand this government's morning decision, there will be a very interesting situation in practice. The use of seasonal labour creates a huge gap. Is it even possible to get a new seasonal labour force in this way? Once again, from this point of view, the government seems to be indifferent to the development of the economy, and the collapse of the economy is not a problem. Of course, tax revenues can now be replaced by loan money, and by squeezing the loan money, you can live well for some time, as in Switzerland. But you failed to present the positions of ministers in the short term. What did the Minister for Rural Affairs say in the Committee on Finance? When we dealt with the additional national budget, the same labour problem was on our table in April. He was talking about some country capital. Talk a little about this, remember the position of the Minister for Rural Affairs on the situation in agriculture and on the labour force.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U41	The Minister of Rural Affairs and his predecessors in this job are now in the mouth of farmers as real heroes! It's so easy to show money now as a favour. Nevertheless, perhaps it is they who have coped the worst during this crisis. Arvo Aller took a vacation while the panic had gone to the ceiling. It was May. It was then clear that many fields would no longer be saved because planting suffered, grass suffered. But the decisions obviously didn't come, Arvo Aller decided to go on vacation. I already told you that an agriculture minister recommended the use of sports clubs. After all, people have spent their lives thinking that instead of working out, we are going to the field, or students have thought that instead of school, we are going to the field. Maybe they are! I think that this Swiss-style comfortable life is possible for public earners on account of their loan money. But honestly, those who are actually struggling with their life's work, with their fields, that loan money doesn't comfort. This is also demonstrated by the granting of wage support, which actually received an unexpected negative reaction: you are kidding us.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U42	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U43	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! As you pointed out in your report, the problem of the labour market is wider than agriculture. This concerns construction, industry, logistics and many other sectors. It is certainly also structural in nature, which in turn means that these solutions also need to be found from these points of view. The Minister of Finance has previously argued that in agriculture, the business model is built on completely wrong starting points, businesses should organise their work better and pay more wages, and then the people needed will certainly find out about the unemployed. How do you think that this problem, which many businesses are facing today, is primarily due to their own incompetence or the unreasonable constraints imposed by the government on using the necessary experience, skills and motivation to use an additional temporary workforce, which would actually help the economy to recover more quickly?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U44	Oh, that was too serious. I would quote the Minister of the Interior on this spot, who said that the Minister of Finance was a real hero, that it was heroic, what he was doing. Indeed, he must have taken [to the head] that he was the one who milked the cows, he was the one who sowed, plowed, cleaned them. These sentences, which I have quoted here, that it is insane how farmers think that we, the Riigikogu and the government, must do their work, I think it is unprecedented. There's always been some kind of justification when the government makes unpleasant decisions, and he always has to make them, but there's no idea behind it. Indeed, embodied in the sense of milking, plowing, combiner, as the Minister of Finance has done here, and going to dots before people who are in real trouble, it has still been just so stupid that I wouldn't even like to answer such a serious question directly. It's just ridiculous, such statements are ridiculous. Whatever this hall or government has ever sounded and what is unscrupulously qualified, but something as reckless as this government has produced has never really been done in Estonia's history. I'm telling you quite honestly. It has always been that we have to accept certain things and then it has been said more steeply or roundly, but there is no reason for it now, apart from the fact that it is necessary to show a coarser sausage to our constituents.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U45	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U46	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear waitress, In your presentation, you gave some examples of the flow of the frame. Are there any official analyses that show the flow of June's footage in the strawberry farming sector? Do you think it is not already a wake-up call to the government that, in fact, in view of the autumn and the new harvest that comes from the fields, it is certainly something to do a great deal, rather than slide like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U47	Thank you. With regard to employment registrations, we get some numbers afterwards, but we never get [information] about how many hundred or thousands of phone calls have been made, how many have not been given notice and how many are teasing suggestions or wishes to hear, I come on Saturdays, right? For a farmer, it is ridiculous that if it is actually made clear that [worker] is needed, the best answer is that I can go on Saturdays. Well, strawberry doesn't go on Saturdays. Nor does any other crop do so, nor does the cow milk on all day, I have heard. In this sense, it does not show the extent of drama or tragedy in statistics. But it can be estimated from these examples that compared to wishes, the result may be twenty percent, and it does not hold, in the sense that the local labour force is lost, is not permanent, does not last. Most people are talking, but there's no result. Obedience, as has been mentioned, tends to have zero responses from the unemployment fund, with zero replies from the dozens of expected ones. Those are the facts.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U48	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! We are dealing with a bill that is currently dealing with the biggest crisis. It's a fire extinguisher, but only for a moment. The long-term problems affecting the Estonian economy remain. Higher education is also an area of concern, as internationalisation is no longer a priority. We know that in the autumn, the government is restricting opportunities for students from third countries. At the same time, Archimedes Foundation stresses that foreign students spend about 35 million euros a year in Estonia. That, too, is a bet. How much do you value the total damage caused to the Estonian economy in this year, 2020 by today's government, which is apparently working in the dictation of the EKRE?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U50	Thank you. It would be a huge speculation, but the keyword 'higher education' is, of course, correct. We shouldn't just talk about berry picking, which is just a cherry on the cake, right? We can also get [the berries] from Greece, but people have dedicated themselves to this area, they have invested, they have worked hard, and then they are pulled from under the carpet at one point. This is more broadly a question of the dignity of the country, how it views its citizens, its fields, its food. But higher education is in the same situation that if, so far, when money is distributed, we call it funding rather than sharing it to universities, right, internationalisation criteria, then right now, the Head of Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs is sending a letter that you, listen, in the autumn you are without. What kind of higher education policy is that? It is extremely regrettable, in fact, that the person whom I respected was also present at our Commission's video conference and claimed things that were not true. For example, the Ministry of the Interior official turned out that Ukraine would not let it out. Some sort of thing that's been disproved a long time ago. I don't know what bubble this government lives in. This government, the Helme family, has repeatedly shared such information over several months, how Ukraine does not actually let its people out. That's the wrong, disproved noise. But if a D.O.D.'s official talks like that, it's a hell of a disappointment. Some kind of bubble, some kind of weird situation. It is a pity that all interest groups are intimidated enough to say something collectively, including the university. Actually, I should tell you. How can the head of the department of one of the secondary ministries report that the higher education policy has been changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U51	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U52	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, I looked at the statistics. In 2019 153 people from Bangladesh and 346 from India and 231 Nigerians received a residence permit. The communities of exotic countries in Estonia are growing. You are mainly talking about Ukrainians, but how do you see the potential of these exotic communities in solving the problems of Estonian agriculture?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U53	Thank you. Very small. You brought the tiny numbers, too. 150, how many promills is it potentially, if they were all a labor force? No, this is certainly neither the solution nor the aim of creating cultural exchanges here. Don't be afraid! We would still like Estonia to remain as Estonian as much as possible with its way of life and culture, but we do not regard as a problem the small numbers that currently exist in statistics. I was talking about the Ukrainians because three-quarters of the workforce are Ukrainians and there shouldn't be racial hatred against them even on the EKRE, but somehow there is. Even the EKRE shouldn't feel racial hatred here. They are certainly not a problem for security; as a labour force, they are extremely committed. I don't know, in general, this genetic control, I think, can't be a model of society.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U54	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U55	Thank you. I am asking about this draft that we are discussing now and about the amendments that are expected. First of all, the problem itself did not fall out of the sky unexpectedly. This problem arose as a result of the decisions of the current government itself. Secondly, the focus of today's debate has been on agriculture, which is understandable, because the pain in this area is the sharpest and most severe, but similarly, the government has shut down oxygen in other sectors, whether we are talking about processing industry, catering, the provision of administrative assistance services or construction, for example. This Reform Party draft, which you are currently defending, offers relief over all these sectors. But the government is still jogging and says that this additional workforce, which is already present in Estonia, will still have to be expelled at the end of July and then start bringing in new [workers]. What were these arguments during the debate on this draft in the Commission which justifies what, from the point of view of the current virus, seems to be a completely surreal solution? Why does the government get upset with that view?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U56	It must be acknowledged that these arguments were not very clear. There were misleading claims, including from officials. But then it was said that where your research is, you have to do research, you have to order research. Whoever studied what doesn't know that wasn't an idea. There were official statistics. We're not developing a plan economy here. I tried repeatedly to say that, listen, we are not planning the labour needs of companies. It has always been understandable that the signal comes from companies and then we will see who meets the conditions. What else was the argument? About six times in a few hours, I had to refute the claim that it was not urgent. From the beginning, I said that this bill was very urgent. And then it was finally pushed into the fall. Perhaps this is a specific feature of videoconferencing, but the natural dialogue has, in fact, been very lost in that committee. I've been there twice. Trying to get behind the fact that you cannot speak properly, isn't it, all this body language and meaningful discussion are suppressed. Of course, I cannot say that the whole Commission is acting in the same way. But somehow there was an order, the points of conversation were given to try to push it into nowhere and not to process this bill. Arguments, yes, unfortunately, I didn't actually hear at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U57	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I very much appreciate your excitement and your as a specialist at the level of various fields...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U59	Thank you. That's what we should stick to.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U60	... like finance, like the Ministry of Defence, like education, etc. But for me, this beautiful oreol was basically a little darkened by what happened at the very sitting that my good colleague, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, touched. You submitted this draft and the reasons for it, and I asked you where this information came from, whether it would not be reasonable to send it to the government or to specialists for an assessment. You said I wasn't the plan committee and all the newspapers wrote it. My question right now is whether you consider the work of the government and the Riigikogu to be more correct, say, on the basis of newspapers or what these bases are.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U61	Thank you. In general, with excitement, it is a prerequisite for getting a job, not a result, as you said. The result for the Agency is also that there will be more knowledge. One [the idea] I share with you: in fact, problems are not solved at government or Riigikogu level in such a way that [the case] is put to rest and then the study is ordered. Most of these initiatives are already based on knowledge. I never said in the committee that we somehow got information from the newspaper. I never said anything. I told you you read the papers, you're communicating with people, you must have heard. I devoted a large part of my report to correspondence with market participants. Market participants are partners in any draft that concerns them. Dialogue with market participants is always part of the process when preparing the draft. This is the erudition that you get in the ministry, by the way, but you should also get as a member of the Riigikogu in a year or, as it happens, in five years. It is in this way that incoherence is certainly not the [fundamental] of how anything can be initiated, and scientific research is never in this basic format. However, there is information in the form of official statistics (i have given you a bit today), there are [information] market participants, there have been meetings with people, there is a general perception of the situation. This, by the way, is one of the main roles of the representative society: must know, must understand, must be able to interpret and must offer solutions. We just came up with a solution. We have obviously come with the best solution that can be done in the Riigikogu. I would also like to expect a solution from the government. Of course, this morning was a disappointment. We hoped that the pressure of several months would produce a better result than just focusing on seasonal work and the safe exorcism of the existing workforce.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U62	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U63	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You quoted today's Minister of Finance, who has a condescending attitude toward farmers. In your presentation, you said that the main interest of young people in chess is mind poisoning and nightlife, not working. With your quote, aren't you as arrogant and unfair to young people as the Minister of Finance for today's farmers?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U64	Thank you. I have never made such a claim. I have quoted today a number of messages that, unfortunately, there are also such [young]. I couldn't finish talking. I ran out of time. But the current situation is still tears and desperation, real tears and despair: spilled fields, wasted crops and through nerves. This quote you brought, or this example comes from one person [who said] that, uh, I don't want any more, I'm totally nervous. He gave a concrete example of rebelling with young people. This is not a normal labour force. You've got to bet a lot on them, you've got to deal with relationships, nightlife, everything. They'll be there all the time, but they're not committed to work like the workers they're asking for and begging for for months. I have never said such things (I didn't say the previous [think] either, I quote), as Martin Helme has said, that we did this extension in April, then in May, June, July had time to adapt to the situation why they didn't do anything. How can you say that if you've actually been made and in contact since March? How can you say that? How can it be said that it is insane to expect the Riigikogu and the government to do our job? This is also a quote from the Minister of Finance. How can you say such things? How can we say no, we don't believe those tears? That's the attitude that people who really are in tears hear. I'm not dramatizing anything here, it's a scene that's getting worse, getting worse, getting worse. It's been getting worse for months. They've been anxious, they've sent 17 messages sometimes during the evening, so listen, it's horrible what they say. Of course, there are repeated quotes from George Ratas, who have been to the remote and answered our questions. His main statement has been that until this morning, I do not know what he is going to say today about this decision, that Estonia is unemployed, that it does not solve everything, but it is important for relief, the unemployed still receive [work]. I have a note for this from [April 15th]. Once again, I stress that I am not the author of all these statements, not even what you have quoted. I'm sure it was an exaggeration. I'm sure it was said in tears by a man. But what was said about the unemployed on April 15th is a one-off result, they don't come into the field, and that's what's happened. It is clear in July that they will not come into the field and when they come, they will come under conditions that are not suitable for production. That's it! So for all young people: I tried to say this well by apologizing already in the presentation that this was not my assessment of youth, but we all understand that the chess does not go to work in particular, that there is going to be a social life, and that there is going to be some of the weaknesses that were once again mentioned in my place as a farmer who had to give up his harvest, both peas and strawberries.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U65	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U66	Thank you. Good Jurgen! My question also concerns today's government decision. One of the points in this decision is that foreign workers will be allowed to stay in the country for 180 days or six months. Farmers have already criticised the decision that this six months is too few, people come here, they're being trained, and then they're running out of time, pack up and go. After all, rural areas require a wide range of skills, and within six months, they cannot even be properly trained; they must already be sent away. Do you share the views of the farmers? What could these principles be, or what occurred in the heads of the rulers when they entered such a point here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U67	Thank you. I'm not a foreign law specialist. Reading it raises a lot of questions, not all this classification and these times clear. In that sense, I'm afraid I'm wrong here with some legal nuances or important details, I'd say so. In principle, when farmers say so, it therefore concerns their current area of activity. But the reality is that they're getting [worker] for one day now. It would be paradise if they had six months. But it was somehow thrown in front of them, having caused a deficit before, forcing the existing tried and tested workers to be expelled. No one knows how complete this replacement will be in agriculture alone. After all, we are not talking only about agriculture. In agriculture, the production cycles are simply at the stage that the disaster is coming. He's already arriving for one production, it's strawberries. These are sad pictures and they should be in front of every member, even a member of the coalition, when they come to vote down this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U68	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The draft laws that we are dealing with here can be divided in several ways. One distribution would be something like this: one is useful, the other is harmful and the other is pointless. I think we're dealing with a third type of bill right now. There are no points here that would not have been resolved in a more radical way by the decision of the government. You said in answer to the question of what must the government do to restore the movement of labour. This is exactly what the current decision did. It's been intimidated by quarantines and the process of granting work permits. As far as I know, no one will be deported in Estonia and no gaps will arise either. So, you were talking about all kinds of things that you said. But please state clearly what this draft of yours will solve, which will not be resolved in advance by a decision of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U70	Professor Lotman, I am truly disappointed in you when you call it meaningless. Please note that this speech is also a verbatim report. I've explained for a long time, you've been in the hall all along. [[A voice from the hall.]] Firstly, we have been exerting this pressure in this Chamber and in the committees since March. The same has been done by market participants. Our bill comes from the beginning of May. Now you come and say it's a pointless bill because this morning the government decided something. We don't know exactly what the government decided, but I've repeatedly quoted the news, I've been referring to the news all along. With us, Parliament, this has not been discussed by the government. Parliament has been mocked. Firstly, our draft has been blocked from discussing it, secondly, we have come up with something that can be described as a change of eye from the news. Maybe the news has been wrong. Please read Martin Helme's Facebook page, which is in classic status right now, right, it laughs out all the problems, says EKRE got his way again. After all, the goal is for the workers we want to keep to be sent away. The point of our bill is that the existing ones will not be sent away. We can't do any more. The government's decision, when it was a direct question, isn't it, according to our understanding, only about seasonal labour. But as of last year (I believe I am not mistaken), 19,000 temporary work permits were issued. Now we're talking about 15,000, at some point, it's changing all the time, and the lion's share is in other sectors. Agriculture is subject to some 1300 permits, and these work permits end in a row. We do not know what the content of the government's decision is, the legal form when it will come into force, how it will be enforced. The fact is that we have been doing this for a very long time, we have been doing this for the whole economy, we have been driving it in the safest way and despite the spite of the government. After all, the government has been talking about some sort of security stuff and knows what things, how there is no consensus. In short, this whole thing has been kind of repulsive, the problem has been denied, someone here has ridiculed the farmers proudly, someone has said that, oh, rhetoric we don't like, but otherwise it's okay. Doesn't that make you think, Professor Lotman, that maybe your question didn't make much sense? Perhaps you should have noticed, however, what I brought in the speech to compare this government's known decision and draft? The problem is in the wider economy and agriculture is only affected by some of it. Seasonal workers by definition are, as the news suggests, in the primary sector. This is not the labour force, the thousands of people who are in industry, construction, transport, storage, of course there are also in catering and hotels. Their work permits for hundreds are now ending. After all, one of the main points of the government says now that these hundreds of people, I offer, are already thousands of people whose work permits run out every month (as I say in my head, I think there are thousands of people that end in the month), are sent away after all. Although they have been tested, they do not need to take tests, they do not need guarantees, but they are sent away. With this, your coalition buddy Martin Helme is gonna be on the news today that we're gonna get rid of them, and then we're gonna see if we're gonna let anyone in. You could be worried about the university problem, too. Why is it that students need to be so beetd, why should they not be subject to these safety measures? Just the head of department sending a letter from the Home Office! The Head of Department of the Ministry of the Interior sends a letter saying, "Hey, you probably don't have any foreign students in the fall." No one will say where, for example, funding can be replaced, how professors can work and how they can be managed at all. Universities are in the dark.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U71	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U72	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! In addition to some labour shortages, there is high unemployment in Estonia, 50,000 people [are unemployed]. How can you see the possibilities of using these people so that we do not become eternally dependent on the Republic of Ukraine or, for my sake, on the kingdom of Nigeria?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U73	Thank you. I don't know about the kingdom of Nigeria. It is true with the Republic of Ukraine that he is one of our confederations in the fight against the remains of the Soviet Empire. He could come to your mind as a strategic ally whom we help by offering seasonal work to the unemployed or very underpaid workers there and thus filling their labour gaps. I guess I don't have to describe my whole idea of how the unemployed can get their jobs here, that's not what this bill is about. But, of course, the most important thing is that the global economy should be relaunched and Estonia would be the smartest in setting its limitations, because mistakes must not be made, infection must not be allowed to spread, but at the same time it is still possible to get jobs in order for us not to overdo the restrictions. At the moment, we are making a firm effort with regard to labour restrictions, and there has been no rational argument in this effort, there has been only a party argument, in principle one party's argument.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U74	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U75	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! We have heard here today that the government's decision, which was taken this morning, is causing a huge gap in the labour market. In the Committee on Rural Affairs, I did not, of course, hear this from the representatives of the farmers' representative bodies this morning; they were very grateful that such a decision had been taken. Now, if you put together those coming times, the quarantine periods and the sampling times, and if we take 20 days to do so, then actually there should be five more days left in reserve. I also know that work permits have been issued in considerable numbers. These people never got here in Estonia, before the crisis started. Where do you think this huge gap in the labour market in agriculture will arise?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U76	Thank you. I don't know if I used the word "huge," sometimes I use the word. [[A voice from the hall.]] Yeah, well, I guess I didn't use that word, but I've been describing this situation several times in an hour and a half. The last fact of this morning was that the farmer had to carry 70% of his fields, and it costs him several dozen tons of strawberries. That's what he writes. He has also begged for help from the Riigikogu, not to mention the government and not to mention the ex-ministers, since March, his work will be destroyed, that is a fact, and the fields are overripe. Very detailed descriptions have been coming for several months and if you, Raplamaa people's envoy, do not feel the same, which is very easy to perceive in every place in Estonia, then it is a bad story. You ask where it comes from, you don't know anything about it. It's actually Martin Helme's level. You don't know, you don't care. Don't say that! I think you actually know. I think there are a lot of farmers in Raplamaa who are in trouble with the harvest. There are people in Harjumaa, there are people in Saaremaa, there are people in every county. I wouldn't like to refer to the press, otherwise Kalle Grünthal says that I only get information from the press, but there are a lot of pictures in the press too. It's surprising you don't know.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U77	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm really sorry I disappointed you, but you didn't make me happy either. For an hour and a half, you're talking about the garden hole, who said what, and the weeping situation in the picking of strawberries, but you haven't said half a word about how your bill helps to pick rotten strawberries, I imagine, in no way, and what your bill contains that isn't in a government decision that you haven't read. You said the government's decision was made quickly this morning. In any case, our group has been working on this since May, so that is not true. Please state clearly what your bill will solve that will not be resolved by a decision of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U79	Thank you. Without being a member of your group, I can say that with my group we have been dealing with this from March rather than starting to deal with it in May. This has been said by the committees and from this great hall, as have the stakeholders. The solutions are that in Northern Estonia, the peak of the catch is probably just arriving or is now arriving. If we made a quick decision in the Riigikogu that employees would not be expelled, we would be relieved in any case. At present, work permits in various areas are ending; these people are being sent home from different areas, but they can actually fill gaps in agriculture as well. The difference in this draft from the government to what I know you are not with us to discuss it is that it is not just about seasonal work, it is about not exorcism of the existing workforce. You do, your government does, I understand, from May onwards, how to get rid of the existing workforce. It's been at least a constant talk by the EKRE. Today, too, their chairman, I was quoted with great joy that no, the people who are here today, are being expelled. I'm sorry! The wording is probably a little inaccurate, I haven't read it myself. However, the point is that today's government decision only deals with seasonal workers, it sends out existing workers and leaves the possibility of replacing them somehow. The replacement creates a gap because of quarantine alone. This creates a great deal of administrative effort, which is certainly not needed in any area. If you have more specific knowledge, please describe. But it is all clear that the government's decision today does not replace or partially complement this bill. Here is just a role-sharing: the Riigikogu cannot do everything that can be done by the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U80	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U81	Thank you. Dear waitress, Actually, I didn't want to ask you anything. I just wanted to say thank you. Within an hour and a half, well - weighed answers have been given from each corner. I can't remember for a long time any debate on agricultural issues in the Riigikogu, where it would have been like this strawberry issue just came out. I remembered that maybe last time it was the issue of defense customs, some 20 years ago, when things were handled so thoroughly. So thank you very much!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U82	Thank you. For my part, I hope I wasn't rude to anyone, but it's a very emotional subject, which means the tears of many people right now. Don't underestimate it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U83	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good speaker! You have a very long experience. I'm only dealing with agriculture right now. I, too, am pleased that agriculture gets so much attention in the Riigikogu. I don't remember him getting it sooner. The fact that we now have this situation, as it is, is the result of a long-term situation or of long-term decisions. But that's not what I want to talk about. I wanted to talk about what concerns agriculture and strawberry farming, so we cannot think that these people want to stay here if we extend this permit. Two thirds of them are desperately waiting for them to return home. I ask you this, and completely without any malice, that if we open up the markets now and what we have now is the result of the previous 10/15 years, what would happen in the case of open markets in Estonia, for example, in the next ten years? So what's our situation? Why am I asking that? I'm asking you this because I'm very good at putting myself in business, it's complicated for an entrepreneur, but I've been...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U85	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U86	I'm almost done. I've been to Ukraine...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U87	Unfortunately, it's been a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U88	...and I know what the situation of farmers is there and what corruption is there. I'm afraid if we're too open, it's gonna end badly for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U89	Thank you. Now we're gonna finish the question. Please, good answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U90	Thank you. I certainly don't want to be mean to anyone who asks. I can be emotional sometime. At the moment, I would like to congratulate you emotionally on the sensible attitude that led to your being replaced in the Commission, if you did not agree to vote as the party wanted, precisely in this area, as far as I can remember. I'm sure you actually sense what's going on. Ukraine's corruption is a fact for a long time, in this sense I too feel sceptical about this society, but in this case, no Ukrainian will come here asking for bribes. After all, we support Ukraine's reforms, we have chosen Ukraine as our ally for the reason that we have had one assailant. As far as the past is concerned, one of Ukraine's problems is, of course, that long-term decisions have not been taken there, unlike Estonia. The decisions you are complaining to Estonia would also have been necessary in Ukraine, certainly in a different way, but in principle, however. There is a great deal of structural reforms in Ukraine. Were Estonia's people impeccable? It is difficult to say, but surely Estonia has simply lost its employment to where one developed European country has to go. Agriculture is not a big employer, but agriculture has many values and this small employer must not be snatched by being pulled from under the carpet. Estonia has reached the point that, thanks to the vastly wise decisions of different governments, we are able to offer jobs to poorer and poorer reformers with several times the salary they can pay themselves. We can also reduce the volatility of seasonal labour demand. This economic model is universal in Europe. It is not the case that some are unable to offer their people decent work, which is why they are labour providers, and others are those who are predominantly capable of doing so. As a result of the wise decisions of these years, Estonia has become among [the latter]; it is able to employ these nations. And we're happy with that. As Helir-Valdor Seeder said, it is not a threat to our security, it is in no way a threat to our identity.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U91	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U92	Thank you very much for this debate, again one of the best things that I think has been in this Chamber in a year. I listened to the arguments of the so-called other side. A lot sounds like the economy is such a zero-sum game that if we give a job to a person coming out, it's like we're taking it away from some local people. This reminds me of this debate that has been converted into automation and digitisation. Similarly, it is thought that if we use more equipment, we use more technological opportunities, it will take away people's work. In fact, even at a sufficiently high level of automation, we can see that in good years we have rather had labour shortages, people's incomes have increased. Is it not the same here that, if we reasonably keep our labour market open, it creates business opportunities on the ground, creates opportunities to create local jobs, and, ultimately, Estonia as a whole will gain much more from this growth?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U93	The one answer is yes, that's it. And, just in case, with the emphasis on the word'reasonable', because no one really wants a foreign country here, we want Estonia to remain Estonia, but it must not go back to racist rejection and self-destruction. I myself am a supporter of conservative labour policy, which Estonia has driven, perhaps in nuances I would be more acceptable at times, but in general we need to adapt to a reasonable labour deficit. But what's going on right now is just very steep and unreasonable. The Estonians are not coming to this job, I tried to explain it here for a long time, they are not my own 'facts', nor are they my own imaginary estimates; they are mostly quotations, so that you can simply understand: market participants must be heard and sometimes in Parliament what they say and what they complain about.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U94	Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U95	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It's been a very interesting hearing today. While gender identity and racial hatred are very important today, as a member of the Estonian-Ukrainian parliamentary group, I am asking about EKRE's hatred of race against Ukraine. What race rage? Anger for which race is at issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U96	Thank you. I understand you're also defining it as racial hatred. I'm trying to avoid that word because it's so easy to say that you're tagging. But basically, a lot of those sentences went off a long time ago before this thing came to light from one party. I have not actually heard of your party, but I have heard of EKRE long before the corona and the labour crisis exploded. Some totally incomprehensible words, the 'fruits' and 'thomphites', have been those words. It's even a little funny, but 'fucking Ukrainians' and such expressions have flown. The current and previous president of the government coalition party has, for some reason, sent extraordinarily vicious lines towards the Ukrainians. I think that as a person who has tried to develop Estonia, everyone should have the opposite reaction. In Ukraine, our fellow sufferers, they suffer worse than we do. They have failed to do anything in their society. We can be there to help. But all of a sudden the Kremlin style has this kind of outrage at the Ukrainians' address, it's a little special. It's not just any racism, it's a little special.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U97	Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U98	Thanks again! I asked you about what I said during today's performance that it was an EKRE race rage against the Ukrainians. That is why I asked a very specific question, which race is now hating which race. In his day, he learned these races at school, but I believe that today there are very great changes going on around us. What race, then, do we now hate which race?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U99	I could probably use the word "racial" once. I don't know what the subject was, but you've also studied literature. In literature, adjectives are always used to expand borders, shapes. Racist in character does not necessarily mean that there are interracial, these are two different things. Racist in character can also be between different peoples who have the same color. I see no other adequate explanation for this because it cannot come from security, it cannot come from economic damage. I may have used that image or that adjective. I believe you know that as a member of this group of friends, and I received a message from Ukraine yesterday (I also have a writer there, not many, must admit, unlike agriculture), that there is quite a lot of attention to the fact that Estonia is going to destroy its berries (this title from the Ukrainian press was sent yesterday) in order not to let the Ukrainians into the field. There is also a Facebook page that is distributed, where these government positions or messages are rejected. These usually apply to Martin Helme or Mart Helme, sometimes Mrs Helme has also been, isn't it, who, along with others, distributes how Ukraine does not allow its people to come here? This kind of national confrontation exists in reality, in the press and in social media. I don't understand how we got into this. After all, besides Crimea, we should have basically empathy for the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U100	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U101	Thank you. A good waitress, a very nice agricultural debate has been here. Thank you. But my brief question is about the decision of today's government. Do you think today's decision was made because of opposition pressure?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U102	Thank you. It looks a lot like that. That was two months too late. This debate started, I understand, in May, we started in March. This draft, which was submitted at the beginning of May, has so far been blocked and the decision that came has not been presented to us. Perhaps something was said in the Committee on Rural Affairs, but in any case we in the group found that it does not concern the economy as a whole, it concerns agriculture. I hope that this was, above all, a labour debate today. It's just that in agriculture, the problem is the most burning. But this decision does not help most of the economy; it does not help farmers enough either, since, above all, the existing workforce is being expelled to allow them to start looking for new jobs, they must be renegotiated, quarantined, rather such a distortion of the eye. Today, I also received such a message, once again, to quote something, which said that we hope that the Riigikogu was one link that I did not have time to open up, that I voted against. I realized it was about the government's decision today. The farmer had read it, I'm afraid I haven't had the time. So it's a lot like that. Let's say there's no doubt that this has to do with our pressure, with our sitting today. But, Mr Lotman, I would also tell you that, in fact, let's never underestimate ourselves this way, that the bill is pointless because this morning the government made a decision. Parliament should never embarrass itself in such a way that its several months' work became meaningless because the government made some kind of decision that it has not even introduced to Parliament. That's why I'm a little disappointed. That's what I said. I hope you're not offended.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U103	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Next, I would like to ask Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Constitutional Committee, to speak here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U104	Ladies and gentlemen, for me too. The debate on the draft law amending the law on foreigners was held in the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu on 16 June 2020. It was a preparation for the first reading. The draft bill was presented by Jürgen Ligi, the initiator's representative, who also replaced Taavi Rõivas in the Commission. The purpose of the draft was to extend the work permits of foreign workers in Estonia, regardless of the field, until the end of this year. The reason for the draft was the corona crisis, which has resulted in the borders of several countries being closed and the introduction of new people may be difficult in this situation. The position of the Government of the Republic was presented to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs by Ruth Annika Murov, Head of the Department of Citizenship and Migration Policy of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The government's position was not supportive. The rapporteurs considered that the necessary reliefs had already been made by earlier laws and regulations. The representatives of the government therefore disagreed with the initiator of the draft and with other members of the Commission. The government representatives presented statistics to the Commission. In June, there were fewer than 16,000 registered short-term jobs in Estonia; at the beginning of December last year there were more than 21000, at the beginning of the emergency situation at 19000. These people are mostly present on the spot in Estonia, of these 16,000, about 12,000, or three quarters are Ukrainian citizens. In the agricultural, forestry and fishing sectors, the current short-term work permits were 1500, or about 10% of the total number of permits. In the meantime, the debate in the Commission got quite heated. It was discussed whether and why Estonians could not work in the agricultural sector in a situation where the unemployment fund accounts for more than 50,000 people. Memories of the principles of the work of the Planning Committee were also shared. Much of the debate focused on the real need for work in the agricultural sector. A number of votes took place at the Commission meeting. The first vote was on whether the Commission should commission a further analysis to clarify the various aspects. Three members supported this idea and six opposed it. The Commission discussed when and how the first reading of the draft should take place. At the end of the debate, this issue was also put to the vote. On 21 September the first reading of the draft was supported by 5 members of the Commission and 4 against. The deadline for the submission of amendments was also voted on as of 5: 4 it was decided to leave 10 working days for the submission of proposals. The Commission decided to propose the termination of the first reading with 5 votes in favour, 3 against and 1 abstention. There was also a consensual decision, namely that all members agreed that I would be the waitress in the big hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U105	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U106	Good waitress! Since you're a member of the government coalition, I'm asking about the government's decision. Today we are discussing this draft, which concerns the people who are already here and who have work permits. As of now, these people should leave on July 31st. So, what's it like now? According to this decision of today's government, if we do not support this bill, will these people have to leave on 1 August because their work permits will end or they will not have to leave and will be able to continue working in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U107	Thank you for your question. Even if the time machine had been invented for the day of the Commission's sitting, we did not have it at our disposal and we did not discuss the government's proposal at the Commission's sitting for the simple reason that this decision had not yet been made for that day. I am the Commission's rapporteur and, unfortunately, I have to talk about what happened in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I would like to speak on behalf of the group in the negotiations, but there is only one place and we already have it closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U108	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U109	Thank you! Mr Korobenik, I read with interest the minutes of your committee sitting. It reflects what you said that there was a big debate about whether the Riigikogu still has enough data to make decisions on the basis of which it is necessary to order further analyses. I've read on the news that our dairy farmers have a problem that if things don't change, a lot of cows might not be milked. I am not an expert in the rural and agricultural sectors so that I can somehow question this statement. But I'm just wondering if the people in the Commission who called for further analyses in any way also specified who this instance is, whether it is the National Audit Office or the State Chancellery or someone else who is more competent, for example, on the dairy herd than the people who are raising the dairy herd. Who knows this cow milking thing better than the entrepreneurs in the sector who are now turning to the government and the Riigikogu and saying that please do something, otherwise the cows will not be milked?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U110	Thank you. At the beginning, the Commission proposed that the analysis be carried out by the Government of the Republic. For some Members of the Commission, including me, this seemed rather illogical. At the same time, we have the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, which carries out various analyses. In this sense, of course, I agree that the milking issue is best handled by cows, but people are also capable of getting into the subject, and I believe that this analysis would be quite valuable. However, I, too, remained in the Commission's view that if the initiator of the draft does not consider it necessary to carry out an analysis, it is not necessary to do so, because the initiator of the draft is best aware of what and why he needs to submit the draft. So, yes, this proposal to carry out an analysis in the Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U111	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U112	Mr. Waitress! I understand your position as a reporter of the Commission, while I ask you, as a member of the government coalition, about the following matter. We have realised that, in the case of the decisions made by the Government in this case and which are very much related to this bill, the Patriotic Union has been the 'day savior'. In this respect, I recognise the Pro Patria Union when it has been able to instill in coalition partners that these things need to be changed. Was it that the proposals of the Fatherland Union were the ones that, in this case, remained in the decisions of the government coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U113	Thank you for your question. At the meeting of the Commission, the Patriotic Union has not made any such proposals, so by then neither they nor anyone else had the role of savior. I think that all the Members of the Commission understood at the session, or were already of the opinion that action must be taken quickly and decisively in this crisis, and each party chose the most appropriate way of resolving the labour problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U114	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U115	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, I understand that you are here as a representative of the Commission, and it is as if nothing can be said but what was said in the Commission. However, I would like to invite you to a substantive debate. As a coalition ambassador, however, you know a little more than the opposition. We have been told many times in this Chamber today that the government has decided something this morning, and therefore the draft we are discussing is as if no longer a criminal. If we ask the coalition ambassadors that please explain the content of this decision, it will be refused. I still ask you to answer the question of Kaja Kallas. And I will add to this, for my part, with the question that, if the government has decided today to open the borders to the labour force, why continue to keep the restriction that the labour force here must leave the country. All the more so since the additional labour force has been so-called restricted, this hole cannot be filled in in a short period of time. Please explain this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U116	Thank you. I don't think I can talk about other things, I just think it's rude. If I am a Commission rapporteur, it is my role to present to you who have not been present at the committee session what happened in the committee session. When I start talking about other things, my current role will suffer. I'm just saving time. As far as I know, all government decisions are available on the government website, they can be consulted and brought up to date. I understand this has just happened, and you may not have had time to get acquainted because you were busy with the current debate, but in general it is quite possible. Obviously I am not the best person today to present government decisions, I am here as a representative of the Commission. There's no other reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U117	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U118	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Your party chairman, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, said at a press conference that he would do everything he could to ensure that no strawberry stays in the field. Now we have practically daily read sad stories in the press about how strawberries stay in the field. For example, today in Äripäev, there was talk about a strawberry farmer in Valgamaa who said that 50,000 - 600,000 tons of strawberries remain in the field. How do you feel about the Prime Minister doing everything he could to make sure no strawberry stays in the field?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U119	Thank you. Well, some strawberries are still in the field, they're just missing out. That's right. But generally speaking of today's subject, this particular draft does not solve the problems of the past, it solves the problems of the future. After all, we are all in agreement with this, there was also a long discussion in the Commission that, on the one hand, there are many unemployed people in Estonia, there are more than 50,000 of them, which is twenty thousand more than before the crisis, while in certain sectors people are missing. After all, this draft, which we are dealing with here today, is also a forward-looking one. These people, these foreigners who are working in the agricultural sector today, could also be here after July, but today we have only just begun July and this bill will not solve this problem of the past. We are in the same situation as we are, the borders were closed and people could not be brought from abroad, but Estonians did not go into the agricultural sector. What are the reasons for this? This is probably a longer debate, and it also took place in the Commission, but a very clear understanding has not emerged. So let us try to solve this problem as well as possible and, of course, I also recognise your initiative.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U120	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U121	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, Does today's situation, of course, not know whether you discussed it in the Commission or not, what we have, really not make you think that there might be an even greater disaster in September if there is no response at the right time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U122	Today's situation makes us think of very different things. Specifically, what will happen in September, perhaps not so much, but certainly in the overall picture. I am convinced that our common priority is to find the optimal solution to the labour problem. We are all working together not only for the coalition or the opposition, but for all of us. There were also quite a number of places in the Commission in which all members agreed. The problem was clear to everyone; the solution was simply different. But I think we have the same goals. Of course, today's situation makes us think very seriously about what will happen in the autumn, and also about what will happen next year, for example, when the unemployment fund measures for people who lost their jobs will mostly end. And then our job is to soften it as much as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U123	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U124	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, You are also an entrepreneur yourself and you have probably employed people with different skills. If you needed a programmer right now, would you imagine the government would tell you that 20 people just worked in hotels, take programmers from among them, and do not want to invite them here from India, for example? But my question is this: did the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also discuss how much damage you will cause to Estonian companies if you roll this labour force ball like hot potatoes and take political points from it? In principle, operators pay for it with their own losses.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U125	I did not fully understand who was in this question 'you', after all, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs supported the completion of the first reading of this draft. Any plan to resolve the crisis is better than the lack of a plan. Since it was the only proposal on the table during the Commission's meeting, it was supported by the Commission. And as I mentioned earlier, I think that this is our common goal to ensure that Estonia goes as well as possible. So together, let us try to find a solution to the problem of the lack of people in certain sectors. Unfortunately, they are also missing in the IT sector. Depending on how to measure it, about a few dozen thousand people are missing, and unfortunately or fortunately during this crisis, how no one was spared much of the programmers. They all kept their jobs, at least the vast majority.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U126	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U127	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I understand you do not want to speak very much on present issues as a Commission waitress. So what I'm asking you is, in the past, what were you thinking about the future, this day? You mentioned in your presentation that you had a question in the committee about why the people of Estonia do not want to go to work in the field. Please then open the Commission on the basis of a debate on why the people of Estonia do not want to go to work in the field.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U128	Thank you. This specific consensus opinion in the Commission was not developed during the debate. There were different ideas. One thought was that those who lost their job would receive part of their salary through the unemployment fund, and that would make them want to go to try new areas perhaps a little later, for example in the autumn or winter. The second issue was that perhaps the rate of pay in the agricultural sector is not comparable to that in another sector and the person does not yet want to go to work on the Madame's salary. And maybe he doesn't want to try a new field right now because he hopes he can get a job in his old field. So the reasons can be different. It probably depends on people, too, and we don't have any very good ideas. But the committee meeting was not very long ago, it was about three weeks ago. Even then, it was evident that there was a very specific shortage of labour in certain sectors, and today the situation has not improved very much. So, yes, the fact is that in times of crisis, there is a shortage of people in some sectors.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U129	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U130	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, My question applies to foreign students. Together with this law, the conditions of stay of foreign students were also discussed. My question to you is as follows: what arguments were agreed to limit the employment of foreign students up to 20 hours a week? Has this amendment also been negotiated with representatives of our universities?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U131	Thank you. I'm sorry, I don't know that by heart, and I don't think we're talking about students either. Perhaps the initiator of the draft simply did not think about the subject when he presented it. The subject itself is undoubtedly very important, but unfortunately this draft does not deal with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U132	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U133	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Today we are talking about a draft resolution on the labour crisis initiated by the Group of the Reform Party. According to the morning news, which you do not particularly want to talk about, because indeed, perhaps you are not familiar with it, we are probably even less, and we do not know exactly what the government has decided. But as far as I can tell, the bill here is being rejected. Now, however, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has decided that the first reading of the draft will be completed. You also said the deadline for the amendments, and suddenly you will specify it. Is it ten days or is it September? How do you, in the event of rejection, vote as a proposal, having been a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and voting in favour of completing the first reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U134	Thank you. Firstly, the deadline for the submission of amendments when the first reading is closed is 10 working days. Secondly, I abstained from voting in the committee. Thirdly, if the question is why the Commission supported this draft, then, as I mentioned, one incentive was probably that some sort of solution was needed to resolve the crisis, and then it was the only solution on the table. Today, I vote again on the present, and today there is more than one solution, so I have to make my choice among them. And, well, obviously, the ideal solution that the previous speaker asked, for example, about foreign students, the initiator of the bill simply did not think about it, is not. But time is running, new ideas are emerging, and perhaps such a comprehensive solution is better than the niche solution that we are voting on today in case someone proposes rejection. In other words, I'm based on today's reality. I shall vote against this draft if it is put to the vote. Of course, I am absolutely interested in a radical and final solution to today's labour crisis in the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U135	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U136	Thank you. I have a question for the Commission rapporteur. You have stressed here several times that, as a Commission rapporteur, you are confined to the debate on this draft or to what was said in the Commission. At the same time, you also stated that the members of the Commission, during the debate on this draft, dealt with the issue of labour shortages more broadly. You had one very interesting sentence, you said that the members of the coalition and opposition had very many similar views. Would you please reflect, with just two examples, what these similar views were?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U137	Thank you. Well, if you're talking about two examples, I think they're kind of trivial. Firstly, everyone agrees that, on the one hand, several tens of thousands of new jobseekers have been added to the labour market. It's a fact, it's pretty complicated to argue with. The second point in which the Commission, in my opinion, too, was quite unanimous is that there is nevertheless a very large shortage of labour in certain sectors, such as agriculture. Perhaps on the one hand, there are people in the labour force, but on the other hand, the players in this field find that they still cannot hire people. On these two issues, the Commission was entirely in agreement and, on this basis, it tried to take decisions. There were certainly more of these issues, but since you asked for only two examples, you have just received these two.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U138	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U139	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I guess one thing you have to agree with. You said there was no point in ordering an analysis from the government. In this example, the analysis capacity of the government is close to zero, what has happened in the fields today, we knew already in March when the crisis began. But would you be more specific about the content of the bill that you are defending at the moment? I got the feeling you guys haven't exactly told the hall who it's supposed to help in the way it says in the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U140	Thank you. First of all, I personally have not assessed the capacity of the government to analyse. The reason why I thought this was not a very sensible proposal was that the draft was essentially submitted by Parliament, part of Parliament. Asking the government for an analysis in this situation, when we have the State Chancellery, seemed like a rather unusual approach. Now, as far as this bill is concerned, first of all, I have mentioned it at the beginning of my report. And secondly, we were able to spend two hours with Jürgen Ligi, which is always a good way to have a good time, and I totally used it. Jürgen spoke for two hours basically about this because he is a representative of the initiator of the bill, which this bill wants to achieve more precisely. So I am focusing here on the debate in the Commission, but with a few sentences I also mentioned that this bill is aimed at the fact that those foreign workers who are present in Estonia could be here until the end of this year, regardless of the sector, not only in agriculture but also in other sectors. Perhaps, in essence, it is an extension.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U141	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U142	Thank you, good manager. Dear Commission waitress, I am pleased to hear that we want to resolve the labour crisis as a result of the health crisis together, that is our aim and that any plan is better than the lack of a plan. I totally agree! I myself am a result-oriented person and therefore maybe I will ask a more detailed question. When we dealt with the cluster bill here, we made a legislative amendment which we now want to disprove with this draft in order to ease these restrictions again. At the same time, the government has come up with its ideas, but not with the bill. As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, can you explain how the law can be amended without changing the law? Change without a bill, by decision of the government? Or is that not possible? And when will this bill come? What's our status? Can we resolve this problem by the end of the month if we should reject this draft today, which I hope will not be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U143	Thank you. Actually, it's a little different. This draft essentially goes hand in hand with the intermediate action that we, along with the government in this House, have also carried out with the voices of the opposition. Perhaps in the agricultural sector we have extended the stay of foreign workers in Estonia until the end of July. It's not a restriction, it's actually a relief. This draft will further extend this deadline until the end of the year. But to say that in the meantime something had been taken away, and now this bill gives, like, more, is wrong. It's not like that. What's going to happen, I can't predict. I hope, as you mentioned at the beginning of your question, that we all agree that we have a very serious situation, that there is a labour crisis in certain sectors, and that we need to find a solution to this. I believe that we can be above such political points and together find a solution to the problem. But we did not discuss this future situation in the Commission; there was not much talk about it. However, as I mentioned earlier, the members of the coalition and of the opposition agreed on certain issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U144	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U145	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! This draft deals with providing relief for the most acute pain, as has been said, allowing workers already in Estonia, the additional workforce to work here until the end of the year, in agriculture, construction, industry, catering and ancillary services. These are all sectors that are urgently waiting for a solution. The government did not support this draft; the government took a negative view of this draft and was very rigid on this issue. According to the government, it is still the case that on 31 July all these workers in Estonia must be expelled. How did the representatives of the government justify their rigid position before the Commission? Why is it stoned for them on July 31?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U146	Thank you. Not everyone, however, will be expelled, but those who have to leave under today's laws. Some people have permission to stay here for a long time. But the government justified this by the fact that earlier reliefs have already been made and therefore it does not consider it appropriate to make new reliefs. As I mentioned in my report, quite a number of Members of the Commission did not agree with this and there was a very serious debate about whether these interim reliefs are sufficient to resolve the labour crisis. But, yes, that was the position of the government representatives, which was mediated by officials.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U147	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U148	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! You are avoiding explaining what the government's position is and what the content of the solution proposed by the government this morning is. Unfortunately, the Riigikogu is in such a situation that we have been able to read different opinions and positions and they are unclear, contradictory. One thing is that everyone is talking about how they solved this whole problem, in a way that these promises conflict. The problem for me is that we in this Riigikogu at the moment do not know what the specific solution proposed by the government is and we do not have the answers to the questions. This problem has not been discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I simply recall that one of the tasks of the Riigikogu is also the question of supervision and the discussion of these issues. Now there's this feeling that we've been told several times that...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U149	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U150	... yeah, to be pulled back. Does the Riigikogu now have to consider taking a decision in a situation where we do not know what the real solution is, i.e. catch a pigeon, even though the sparrow is in hand, but the pigeon is on the roof? Does it not seem to you that this is a risky solution for the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U151	Thank you. I certainly have not proposed to you to withdraw anything. And it has to be considered. If this draft is put to the vote, of course, each member of the Riigikogu must consider whether he or she will vote in favour or against, abstain or not at all. But it is no longer the responsibility of the Commission. I cannot say why the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not met. I actually thought I could, but this meeting hasn't happened. And now, as a Commission waitress, I will tell you what took place in the committee in mid-June at this long session, where we discussed this specific draft and were not aware of any other plans, was not aware of the government's proposal. In this sense, I agree with you that, of course, we must consider how and what decisions we will take, but as a Commission waitress, I cannot give you any recommendation. Everyone votes with their hearts and minds when the moment of voting comes when it comes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U152	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U153	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You have given the impression that your mission in this Parliament is also to stand up for the interests of entrepreneurs. To find out whether this is merely an impression, or if it is actually the case, I ask you this. Do you see the slightest logic and economic point in the fact that, with the help of the Minister of Finance's applause, all those short-term workers who have completed their deadline will be sent home at the end of July and, at the same time, the posture or the impression that all new ones are welcome will be taken? At the same time, ten new barriers will be placed before they can come here. Among other things, there is no reason to complain about, for example, the requirement of two weeks of quarantine, in certain cases that is justified. But for those who are already here, there is no need for further quarantine. Do you see any logic in this decision? And second of all, I'm gonna ask you if it's gonna be enough to answer that it's difficult for us to know the government's official position. Let me ask you straight: is the official position of the government the EKRE position?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U154	Thank you. I've already answered once that not everyone gets expelled. The Minister of Finance does not have the authority to send out people who may be here and who do not want to leave. They remain in Estonia. Now, as far as the government's position is concerned, whether or not it is the position of the EKRE or not, the position that was mediated in the Commission by the officials of the Ministry of the Interior was, I suppose, the consensus position of the government, or the position of the EKRE, the Fatherland and the Centre Party. After all, any position is such a matter of debate, and views may change over time. There will be a new input and the government's position may not be the same as it was three weeks ago. But this is already a new issue, and I, as a representative of the Commission, would rather not be opening such new openings, because that would be just rude. I have, yes, many times seen the Commission waitress announce her entire personal agenda, but I think it is quite rude to others. He could do it off the record, but not on the remote. I wouldn't do it myself if it was okay with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U155	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, I would like to thank you for answering the previous question, which concerned the deadline for tabling amendments, during which it became clear that you abstained. In your reply, you also introduced the subject of students and accused some previous questioners that there were no students in the Reform Party's draft. But I was surprised by this, and I am now asking you that you said that the government has come up with the perfect solution. I wrote down the 'ideal solution', and you can look after the verbatim, that's what you said, and that's what you said about students. Do you think the ideal solution is to separate mothers or fathers from children in the case of mobility?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U156	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U157	Thank you. I said that there is probably no such ideal solution, perhaps what I said was roughly the opposite of what you have just mentioned. Now, we have not talked about this separation in the Commission, and we have not talked about foreign students at all in the Commission, because this issue is never mentioned in this draft. Indeed, this problem is just as topical and its topicality will increase when the new academic year arrives, but this draft does not deal with this issue at all. There was no debate on this in the Commission either, although the Commission meeting was quite long and we discussed quite a few other issues relating to this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U158	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U159	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I will come back to my first question. Your answers show that you obviously have an accurate knowledge of what the government is offering. Most members of the Riigikogu do not have this knowledge. You have said here how you intend to vote when the vote comes. Does it not seem to you that, by placing the remaining members of the Riigikogu, who do not have an accurate knowledge of the government's offer, in such a situation as to begin voting here, you are unfair to your colleagues, especially considering which member of the Riigikogu are you, so that the Riigikogu can play its role as best as possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U160	Thank you. I think that how well each member of the Riigikogu performs his/her role is within the competence of each individual member. It is not the task of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to ensure this. But I have already expressed my personal opinion, and it was that, first of all, the content of the government proposal is completely public, it is available on the government's website. Now I will add that, of course, I think that the more information there is for a decision to be taken, the better it is that any leader of a group may take a break. This is enough time to examine the government's proposal, compare it with this bill and make the right decision, which would be constructive. This is, of course, simply an observation, it is not a recommendation, absolutely not, but it is a possibility that exists entirely in the Riigikogu's home and operating rules, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has discussed it in previous sessions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U161	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U162	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I'm going to repeat some of the questions that have already been raised here, but maybe you can point out other aspects. You stressed that any plan was better than no plan. I understand there was a plan before the Commission. You read out who supported this plan and who did not support it, and in conclusion, the Commission decided to support the completion of the first reading. At the same time, you admitted a moment ago that if someone proposes and apparently proposes to stop reading this bill, you will unfortunately support it. It is a pity that we have been dealing with this crisis, which is obviously caused by the government itself, for several months. These problems are visible to all the parties involved. As a long-term member of the Riigikogu and as an entrepreneur, perhaps you could explain what has happened between the meeting of the Commission and today, that you obviously no longer support the process of dealing with the draft solution to this crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U163	Thank you. I have to admit, I've been briefing myself on all kinds of conspiracy theories, but that the government has created a corona crisis, I've never heard of it before. But now from what's happened in the meantime, this is a completely different subject. As a member of the Commission, I think that the better format for such a debate is still negotiations, not a presentation by a representative of the Commission. The Commission representative's report also provides an opportunity to debate, but the content of this debate is still what we have discussed in the Commission. The Commission meeting took place on 16 June and today it is 6 July, during which time various parties have been looking for solutions to the situation, the crisis. And I sincerely hope that this solution has now been found. Perhaps you can do better than that, but I think that both myself and you are interested in ensuring that this solution is optimal and takes into account different interest groups, different sectors. The subject of students has also sounded here. But indeed, as a member of the Riigikogu, I will vote as much as today's information allows, but as a representative of the Commission, I will tell you what happened a long time ago, on 16 June 2020.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U164	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U165	Thank you. Mr Korobenik, do you understand what the EKRE government has put us in? A decision was taken this morning, and you are the only member of the government coalition who can give us answers on a very important subject today and debate with us because the others have not come here. Even the Prime Minister has not asked for the floor, although he could have come to the extraordinary sitting and described the decision that was taken. Yeah, we can read, we've read it. Well, answer one question, for example: if foreign workers arrive here on a scheduled plane, does this mean that it is not a transport organised by the employer? How am I supposed to understand that? There are so many nuances in this decision that you cannot understand simply by reading when you do not know the background. I would have expected somebody in the government coalition to tell us about this context, not the meeting of the Commission held on 16 June.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U166	Thank you. I'm truly sorry that I've disappointed you, but that's the way life is, sometimes people have to be disappointed. I am a Member of the Commission, and I follow the principle that, as a representative of the Commission, I will tell you what happened in the Commission. I find it very rude for a member of the Riigikogu to come here as a representative of the Commission and disown his worldview. It just seems so wrong, I don't want to set such a bad example for others. However, I will limit myself to my modest role today, and I will tell you what took place in the Commission's sitting. The Commission did not discuss the proposal of the Government of the Republic, as it simply did not exist on that date.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U167	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U168	Thank you for the floor. Dear waitress, As a Commission waitress, could you please explain to me that when the Commission discussed this topic, we are talking about the deadline of 31 July and decided to finish the first reading, but send the draft to the Chamber on 21 September, how should the Riigikogu interpret such legislation? The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which should understand that the date of entry into force of the Act or the date of entry into force of things that are problematic from the labour force point of view, i.e. 31 July, will only send the draft to the Chamber by 21 September. What were the Commission's arguments?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U169	Thank you. It was actually quite comprehensively said that the deadline was July 31st. Indeed, there were no sittings of the Riigikogu between the meeting of the committee and that deadline. However, we had discussed in the Commission that, when an extraordinary sitting is coming, of course, everyone agrees that this point will also be included on the agenda. And as we can see, the extraordinary session came, and this point is on this agenda, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not even met in the meantime to change this date. So in that sense, yes, we've been over this. I do not believe that this is a bad lawmaking practice, because we did not know today's date on the day of the sitting. I think it's the end of the good, all good!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U170	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U171	Thank you. In the dim debate on the Commission at the video conference, I felt that behind the scene you were very reasonable. I don't remember the details, but I got the impression that you understand the depth of the problem, and you don't share a line of attitudes on the door. But now we're facing a problem. A coalition partner called the draft today meaningless, even though it has been done for several months, because this morning the government made a decision. This was not very respectful of Parliament. You're the only one who can explain these two things. What do you really think the government decided that we should feel meaningless?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U172	At times, it happens that in real life, a person feels much more unpleasant than when communicating online. I do not regard this bill as pointless, it was an attempt to find a solution to the labour crisis. And the views expressed in the Commission not only on this draft, but also on other issues that emerged in the debate seemed to me personally very understandable and reasonable. So, of course, Jürgen, you and I agree on different matters and on certain things, but there were several votes in the Commission, and I, as a member of the Commission, expressed my position in these votes My role right now is to introduce you to what happened through the video bridge, which may have made people look wrong, but that's just what happened that day, and we have to live with it somehow.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U173	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U174	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I have the impression that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has deliberately delayed the procedure, as has been said by a good colleague, Indrek Saare. As far as I am aware, such matters are dealt with in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. As a result of the above, it was clear that there were no hearings in the meantime, and that is why the draft went to September. It sounded like a little complaint about why we didn't deal with it before in the Commission. But I would remind a good colleague that, in fact, it should be known with regard to all kinds of drafts that it will take time to deal with the draft. I also believe that if this draft had come from your heart, you would certainly have given it to the proceedings in the past, so that it would have been handled in good time. Is the conclusion that I have just made correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U175	Thank you. The Commission certainly has some possibilities to stall, but this particular case shows that the Commission did not really want to stall. There was also a rather long debate on this at the Commission meeting. In my opinion, there was no one in memory that could be deceived, who would have opposed this item coming to the debate in an emergency session. In this regard, all the Members of the Commission felt that if the issue is topical, it must be discussed immediately, not after 31 July, when the deadline has already fallen and this draft does not really make much sense. So here he is on our agenda today, and indeed, I also remember that everyone in the Commission agreed that this could be discussed as soon as possible and should not be delayed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U176	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U177	Thank you. Good waitress! I ask you, as a member of the Riigikogu, that you say with conviction that everything is well now. We understand that if the government's proposals made this morning, at 25 hours, are to be implemented, there will be two whole and two half weeks to implement them. When we talk about seasonal workers coming from Ukraine, they must be quarantined for at least two weeks before they can enter the field or work anywhere else. In addition, the government has said that seasonal workers are certainly wanted to be set a wage criterion, which could be seriously in conflict with the European Union's seasonal workers directive. So all this implementation and putting into practice may take a little longer than we have until 31 July. In this situation, however, is it reasonable to send out everyone here, or today's bill, as the Minister of Finance has stated in the media?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U178	Thank you. I admit, when I put my hand to my heart, that I didn't say that everything was okay. There are a lot of things in the world that I don't think are good. It's all pretty subjective, of course, some people think these things are okay again. But this debate may be out of the Commission's agenda. As I have said once, no one is sending all the people, all the foreign labour force out of Estonia. After all, we are talking about this draft extending the deadline for stay, which has already been extended once since 31 July, has already been extended. Now, the important aspect here is that the time that came is not taken into account as a career, so a person can come back and work longer here, because the months he was here because of a pandemic do not count as his general career. And in the case of some of the workers, this period will not be over on July 31st, so they can stay in Estonia after that. The question is, of course, whether they want to stay, because they are still people, many of them have families in another country, they have been here for a very long time. How many of them take advantage of the opportunity to fly out of here when the air traffic returns, we can't predict. This was also discussed at the committee meeting. Of course, the important aspect is that the draft we are discussing also solves the concerns of other sectors, not just those of the agricultural sector. There are sectors where the need for foreign workers is high, apart from agriculture. But no, the government doesn't send anyone out of here on a massive scale. We are still talking about quite a specific regulation that we are currently discussing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U179	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U180	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! As you suggested, I went to the government's website. By the way, on the front page of the government's website, it's how the government supports the race, but I also found a press release on today's decision. It says here that until spring 2022, seasonal workers can spend 180 days in Estonia during the year, now the limit is 270 days. My question is this: how do you personally assess why it was necessary to shorten the time for seasonal workers to be here so significantly? And the second question: do the changes that this morning's decision concerns seasonal workers also require some kind of amendment of the law, or are they all made at the level of government order?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U181	Thank you. I am sincerely pleased that the first part of my answer was helpful. But there was another part of my answer: I said that I would be happy to limit my response to what happened in the Commission. Unfortunately, it didn't work. But as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I have the feeling that this six-month topic really needs a change of law, but that was not the subject of our June session. This is a new issue and we will probably discuss it sometime in this Chamber in the future, but perhaps not.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U182	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Ivari Padar on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please! [[Ivar Padar requests more time.]] 5 + 3 minutes, please! I'm afraid that's all we can get. If another group empowers you to perform, you will get more.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U183	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There has been a lot of talk about migrant labour in this Chamber lately and there will certainly be talk in the future. We have all understood the health risks involved, and also that the number of unemployed in Estonia is increasing. It has also emerged from previous discussions that such a situation requires a reasonable solution and that the hands of free labour are not expected to go to agriculture. Raising July 31st for the harvest is a foolish political whim. We are now in a situation that can be described as extremely difficult. The short term has shown a number of accompanying factors. The increase in unemployment has not motivated people to go to rural work, society has become urbanised and rural work has become alien, if not frightening. Long-term unemployed people registered at the unemployment fund are often without any interest in work. At the same time, the efforts of the unemployment fund to find solutions must be recognised. I, on the other hand, have watched from here and on the field, how the unemployment fund and farmers, in cooperation, have tried to do the best and look for people to help, and this picture has been just as depressing as Jürgen Ligi pointed out in his examples earlier. And what is also clear is that the optimal use of our vital bio-resources, or agricultural land, is impossible without the contribution of migrant workers, waving hollow slogans as many as you want. Of course, our people must be involved as much as they can, but we cannot cope without the help of migrant workers. One million hectares of agricultural land is our food bag. Reasonable use of this asset is extremely important. The cutting and crushing of hay cannot be the basic foundation of Estonian agriculture. For God's sake, if someone wants to run a tractor around the field and mow the hay and eat the macra, it's his will. A few decades ago, when agricultural reform and land reform were still in the vermei, people thought very seriously how to make optimum use of Estonia's land. Priority was given, in particular, to the maximum use of grassland, i.e. cattle farming. One thing was very clear at the time: the destruction of the dairy herd must be stopped. A new industry, such as beef cattle, was created, and new breeding material was introduced in the sheep sector, all of which were better suited to our land. Last weekend was the 20th year's anniversary of the Estonian Beef Farmers' Association, which I was able to take part in. We have many renegade countries whose hectares have not given us the opportunity to compete in cattle and grain farming, but there is a great deal of ambition in these people to use their land with dignity. Gardening has also been a good opportunity to be competitive as owners of a few hectares. This was the start of the start of many now active in berry breeding and gardening. As a minister in Finland, I used to study how gardening is done, how smaller farmers can cope. While the volumes in the early years were smaller and the local workforce was sufficient, the situation has changed over time. If ten months are carried out by the local entrepreneur himself, then additional effort is needed during the harvesting period. That is the case, and it is worldwide, whether it is France, Spain or Portugal, for example. I have been in contact with French farmers since May, and I know how the French Ministry of Agriculture and French farmers are preparing very hard for harvest in August. Working together very seriously, trying to find the best possible solution. There's no wine left unmade. To call here our strawberry growers the strawberry barons is extremely inappropriate, especially when it comes to people who themselves have this kind of new-fashioned makeup. There has been much discussion about how many people we have in strawberry farming. It is as if it has been reproached that there are few people and a lot of screaming in strawberry cultivation. This reminds me of the whole debate on the subject of agriculture in general, which has been a matter of the past: what these farmers complain about, the share of agriculture with forestry and fisheries is 3.5% of GDP. But the other half isn't mentioned. It's 100% of our pantry, our food security. Unfortunately, in addition to seasonal workers, labour is a problem throughout the agricultural sector. Previous reports have said that agriculture itself is actually a relatively small user of workers, and there are areas where the volumes are much larger. But a large quantity of Estonian milk is currently produced, involving migrant workers. And the way it is with milk is that, in addition to the internal market, we produce an equivalent quantity for export. We have a very important export sector for dairy farming, and what will we do in this situation? Are we going to reduce the valuable herd from scratch so that we can boost the popular grass mowing and crushing action? Time and technological development will certainly provide answers here. Picking strawberries with combines maybe someday even our eyes will see it. I know they're running tests somewhere. In dairy farming, robot technologies are, of course, much more advanced. But today we have to live in reality and do what we can. The least of these is the postponement of the 31 July date and consultation with those countries where seasonal workers can be helped on the basis of strict health frameworks. Perhaps in the 2021 season, national interest in agricultural work is greater. This we will see next spring, the mid-term winter will be discussed. But today we are in a situation where strawberry rots in the field and dairy farmers are breaking down under the burden of work. Therefore, it makes no sense to treat the draft under consideration separately from which decisions the government made this morning, too, I do not know exactly about these decisions. It is clear that this bill and these decisions should support each other, both of which are important. So we very much support the further processing and adoption of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U184	Thank you. On behalf of the Kersti Sarapuu Central Balloon Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U185	Good manager! Good guys in the hall! On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I congratulate the government coalition for its extraordinary effort to resolve the bottlenecks related to labour migration. This is another proof that Jüri Ratas' government cares about the rural and agricultural sectors. But not only! The decisions also concern foreign students coming to Estonia. As Estonia has done well to prevent the spread of the corona virus, we take great care of people coming from abroad in view of health indicators. Therefore, in Estonia, people who arrive from a country where fewer than 16 people have been infected per 100000 inhabitants can start work and study without restrictions immediately. If a person comes to Estonia from a country where this figure is more than 16, he or she must stay in isolation for 14 days. In cooperation with the employer or educational institution, he/she must be provided with transport to Estonia and nationally, accommodation during 14-day quarantine and testing on arrival and at the end of isolation. Then you can work and learn to start from 15. The date of stay in Estonia, but only on the assumption that the corona virus test carried out at the end of the quarantine period is negative. The restrictions also apply to arrivals in Estonia from countries with insufficient data on the number of infected persons and where there is a higher risk of spreading the virus. The list of these countries will be published on the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Behind all the decisions made this morning is the desire to ensure the well-being of the Estonian people, to protect the health of all of us and to ensure the daily functioning of the economy. Strawberries must be harvested and cows must be milked. A solution can also be found for builders, welders, workers in different sectors of industry in the drought. The draft proposed by the Reform Party does not offer a sustainable solution. It is not humane to keep foreigners currently working in Estonia long in Estonia, because a large part of them have their own family in their own country. Today's government decision sees a wider solution to the problem, taking into account everyone's interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U186	Thank you. Next, I would like to ask for a speech on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland of Helir-Valdor Seeder. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U187	Ladies and gentlemen, We have now changed the situation compared to the draft we are discussing today in the Riigikogu. In the meantime, coalition parties have agreed and the Government of the Republic has already taken a decision at its meeting to resolve the problem on a permanent and far broader basis than the Reform Party's proposal to extend temporary work permits. In fact, this extension of temporary work permits is not a good and sustainable solution at all, because the people who came here before the corona crisis came for a certain period and they took it into account. Some have already left Estonia, despite the extension of their work permit. Some will probably leave for family reasons, though for other reasons, but forced workers will be made subject to pressure from employers and with reluctant consent from employees themselves. It's like they have to be here when work permits are extended when they leave, they can't get back. Finally, this proposal does not resolve the situation because work permits are extended only to those who were here before the beginning of the seasonal work, if the seasonal workers had not yet arrived here, i.e. before the start of the corona crisis. This is not a sustainable solution for the Estonian economy, Estonian entrepreneurs or producers. The decision taken by the government restores the pre-corona situation, or the normal movement of labour from third countries, by adding additional restrictions due to the health requirements when coming from countries with a higher risk of infection, and should therefore be subject to quarantine with employers, which has been desired by employers themselves. Now, I think that no one in this Chamber should be disappointed that this initial draft has lost much of its meaning because a better permanent and more comprehensive solution has been found, which has already been supported by the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Trade and other farmers. This is mainly about the agricultural sector that it helps. No, in fact, its meaning is wider; the concept of seasonal workers extends to other areas than agriculture; it is a fishing industry, food industry, catering, accommodation, processing industry. So the meaning and impact of this government's decision is much wider than only agricultural workers. Now, as far as the introduction of six months is concerned, yes, this too was discussed and decided to consider and propose. That requires a change of law. We can discuss this with you in this Chamber in the future, ladies and gentlemen, but it is very likely that the effects of the economic crisis will worsen in the autumn, that unemployment has already started to rise in Estonia, that it will probably increase in the autumn, and that there will be every reason to review these regulations as well, how to give priority to your people on the labour market if there is competence, will and opportunity. This proposal is for the government to introduce it as a temporary crisis measure, as is the reduction of excise duties, which will then apply until the end of April 2022, with the same deadline as the reduction of excise duties. So this is a perfectly reasonable solution that the Government of the Republic has come up with. This has indeed changed the situation, ladies and gentlemen, as you said. And why is this agreement in the coalition just now? But still because the current work and residence permits have been extended until 31 July. There was no other pressure here, but that is the point: by then a permanent solution had to be found and it had to be done several weeks earlier, so that employers had time to prepare for the adoption of the labour force and, if necessary, a quarantine period could also be completed. Now there is an opportunity, the government's decision came into force from now on. So from now on, these operations can be carried out, and so this forward-looking time should be enough to solve these problems. What has happened in the past is that no one can change, not even with the draft tabled by the Reform Party, which would have been the first reading today and the second and third reading probably sometime in the future. The government's decisions can enter into force now and those proposals that require a legislative amendment, we can still discuss together during the autumn session. They are not urgent and do not currently prevent the use of seasonal workers in companies in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U188	Thank you. Next, please speak on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group Jaak Valge. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U189	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good people's representatives! Honourable technical personnel! I want to start again positively and say that, of course, this opposition thing is to offer alternatives. This passive-aggressive attitude would be much worse. And if the alternative proposed is very constructive, then it will at least bring so much benefit that it will force policy to be analysed, and that is what I will now try to do. So why can't one national-conservative and free-economy party vote in favour of this bill or any other bill that promotes or sustains the use of mass cheap labour in any way? I've classed four reasons. Firstly, we see Estonian society as a whole and look at the development of society with a far-reaching focus, strategically and in the spirit of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. More specifically, we have a huge integration problem. I do not know of any other country in the world where the level of knowledge of the national language among permanent residents is as low as in Estonia. With the mass introduction of cheap labour, we have been working hard to deepen our integration problems. The introduction of cheap labour also facilitates the permanent residence of people with Eastern Slavic backgrounds in Estonia. I will bring some figures: there has been a sharp increase in the use of short-term workers in Estonia since 2017. During the year there were 7500 registered persons, and in the same year 1,200 Russian and Ukrainian residents settled in Estonia permanently more than they left. The Saldo was plus 1,200 people. So: 2018; 20000 short-term jobs; and 2000 more people from Russia and Ukraine settled here permanently than they left. In 2019 there were 32000 registrations of short-term employment, more than 3100 primary residence permits were issued to Ukrainian and Russian citizens, and 2300 more Ukrainian and Russian citizens settled in Estonia than they left. This positive balance of migration with Russia and Ukraine is likely to increase in 2020, as inertia is strong and there is obviously a positive correlation between working in Estonia for a short time and moving to Estonia permanently. Let us understand that any person who has moved to a country for a short period of time can always find a way to stay here permanently if he or she so wishes. I remind you of the Soviet era. People from the great Soviet Union came here to work, there was a job. There were one in six and seven, but this massive flow, as it was then, was the result of which we are now at the top of the European countries in terms of the share of the population of foreign origin. The results of the 2019 migration could be summarised in this way. The return migration of Estonians has slowed down, the immigration of European Union citizens has slightly decreased and their emigration has increased sharply. Immigration has increased with the cultural background of the eastern Slavic Republic and other third-country nationals. All in all, the proportion of Estonians and other nationalities has decreased. The share of late immigrants from Russia and Ukraine and other countries has increased. This is a problem from an EKRE point of view, and I believe that it is also a problem in a global sense. I have nothing against the nice Ukrainians, but this model deepens the inequality between countries and the controversy in the world. However, this is another issue. Another reason is the fact that cheap labour keeps our wages low and slows down the return of our own workforce to Estonia. As you know, between 2000 and 2017, some 50,000 or a little more people left Estonia in European countries. The employment structure of these deceased people was roughly similar to what we have now used as short-term migrant workers. In recent years, this balance of migration has been balanced, but there are certainly many more who would like to return to Estonia, especially in the context of the coming economic crisis. If we use cheap labour on a massive scale, there is much less chance of doing so. Now, I believe that many of these arguments do not work. Let us use economic arguments. The third reason is that there is high unemployment in Estonia and obviously difficult times are still ahead. Let me remind you that unemployment and poverty are the first to threaten our own people of foreign origin, so we would just increase integration problems. According to the Unemployment Insurance Fund, we had just over 51000 unemployed as of 28 June, but the explanatory memorandum to this draft states that the loss of foreign labour in construction, industry and elsewhere is irreparable. Really? According to the Unemployment Insurance Fund, there were 5300 former jobs in the construction sector, 4000 jobs in the industry. And how much job opening is there? Answer: In agriculture, forestry and fishing 862, construction 330 and industry nearly 800. Thus, in agriculture, job vacancies and jobseekers are approximately equal, with 16 times more jobseekers in construction than jobs and five times more in industry. But true, I admit, this old inertia is strong. When we talk about structural unemployment, it really does exist and this problem needs to be resolved, but I do not believe in principle that the working of Estonians has suddenly disappeared. My 17-year-old son was also looking for a job as a strawberry picker, but unfortunately he hasn't gotten the job. In Finland, Estonians also do the same agricultural work, even today. This is about wages and working conditions and, in fact, the state's welfare level, which may remain the same when Estonians do these jobs in Finland, but not in Estonia. Now I come to reason four. We have not reached the five richest countries in Europe, but, according to Eurostat, we have now fallen from consumption capacity to the six poorest countries in the European Union. If we bring in cheap migrant labour, at best we win in the short term, but we lose in the long term. I quote Professor of the Dean of the Faculty of Economics of the University of Tartu, Raul Eametsa: 'The heart of the matter is a lower salary, which allows companies to artificially keep costs down. In terms of innovation, this is a negative phenomenon. ' For my part, I'm going to say a few more basic truths. The role of the State in the market economy is to ensure free competition in the market. In the economy, production factors include land, labour, entrepreneurship of capital. Where a State grants advantages to a company or industry by making a production factor such as labour or why not a cheaper raw material, if it makes the use of a factor less expensive, this is an intervention in free competition. And also: it is not just a question of competition. If the state makes cheap foreign labour easily available, it will also encourage the most primitive companies at the expense of others and discourage rather than favour the most important factor of production, which is entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U190	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U191	The EER Group therefore proposes to reject this draft at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U192	Thank you. Kaja Kallas on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please! Five plus three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U193	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I am very pleased that the opposition's pressure was bearing fruit and that the government is forced to propose a solution to its own problems. It was clear that there would be a problem with the labour force when the government imposed a time limit for temporary staff to stay here with the cobar bill during the corona crisis, saying that everyone had to leave after 31 July. The Reform Party has spoken of the need for an additional labour-related solution for the economy. That's what we've been saying for three months. The Committee on Rural Affairs has discussed this issue seven times, but no solutions have been found because there has been no desire to solve this problem. The solution proposed today by the government to the self-inflicted problem was born too late, but better late than never. Every day that has been stretched, uncertainty about allowing additional labour has caused and is causing damage to the economy, which is measurable and which should not have been. The labour crisis has caused serious damage because the harvest has gone to waste. Today in Delfi, there is an article about a strawberry grower who says that 50 to 60 tons of strawberries have basically gone to waste. The government has teased and mocked people who have built up their entrepreneurship in good faith for years. As far as we know about the government's decision now, it only concerns workers who are mainly in agriculture. This will not solve the problem in the long term in industry, construction and other sectors that also need additional labour. Listening here today to the speeches of the representatives of the government departments, it seemed that the government was taking the best decisions in order to keep this government together. Here Olav Osolini can be paraphrased, who says that the best decisions are those of the government, in which part of the government can say that the situation has now changed dramatically, and some of the government can say that nothing has changed, and normal people do not understand anything at all. However, the greater concern with the government's decision today is that the government will turn Estonia into a time-bound province. Foreign students were then sacrificed to solve the agricultural problem. It's July 6th. We have not received answers to our questions here and it seems that the representatives of the government departments themselves do not understand what will happen after 31 July to the people who are here now, in case the government coalition votes out today's draft. The people here today, already working here today, will be expelled from Estonia on 1 August. Not all companies are able to find new employees. There are currently 400 foreigners working in Estonian dairy farms, and according to the law, 300 of them should leave on 1 August. This means that 21 000 cows, a quarter of Estonian cows will not be milked in August. That is why I have a proposal for you: if you really want to be sure, and you do not have that certainty right now, that the damage caused by the economy does not get worse, that these cows do not get milked, then do not vote out our draft today. If it is true that the government's decision will resolve these problems, then the law will simply not apply, but there will be no harm. As they say, it doesn't ask for food. However, if, as is often the case with this government, it emerges that this decision does not solve all the problems, today's first-reading draft exists and can be further processed, supplemented so that the problems can also be resolved on 1 August. Once it's voted out, you won't be able to file a new bill, yet you won't be able to process it. So my recommendation is yes: please do not vote in favour of rejecting this draft, but support the continuation of this procedure and the completion of first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-07-06_U194	Thank you. All the political groups have spoken, that is the end of the negotiations. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of the draft 192, but the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has proposed to reject the draft law amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party at first reading, and I will put this proposal to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to reject the draft law amending the Aliens Act, which was initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, 192 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 52 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 42 against, no abstentions. The proposal was supported. The draft has therefore been rejected at first reading and will fall out of the procedure. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Today's trial is over. See you in the next sitting! Closure of the sitting at 3.33 p.m.
