ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable representatives of the Government of the Republic, ministers! Let's start the first briefing of this session. I'd like you to start by checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U2	There are 41 members of the Riigikogu. The following members of the Government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Finance Minister Martin Helme and Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu. And, as usual, the order of the questions is that the members of the Riigikogu who are registered in advance get the floor first, then they have the opportunity to clarify the question and then a quick-fingered round of fingers is followed, where the member of the Riigikogu, who is then the fastest, can ask his question. There are two minutes to ask the question and three minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U3	Let's go to today's list of questions. First, Indrek Saar asks and is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U4	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister! Finance Minister Martin Helme made an agreement with US law firm Freeh, Sporkin & Sullivan to provide legal services to the Estonian state in international money laundering studies. The contract costs EUR 3 million. According to Helme, the content of the agreement is to cooperate with the US investigating authorities and, if this results in fines being imposed on banks, to participate as a State in the distribution of fines. On the basis of the agreement, it can be concluded that the State undertook to pay this law firm EUR 3 million regardless of the outcome of the work and without having previously ordered an analysis as to whether, according to US law and case law, the distribution of fines and other punitive payments would be possible to achieve the desired result. According to the contract, the legal adviser provides an assessment of the prospects for the distribution of the fine by the end of the second stage of the work, by which time more than 90% of the volume and value of the contract will be fulfilled. The background of a company selected as a contracting partner of the government also raises serious questions. The members of the Riigikogu already sent you a letter last week, where I would like to quote from the report of the Senate Intelligence Committee of the United States, according to which Louis Freeh has received guidelines on money laundering matters involving Estonia from the authorities of the Russian Federation, which is then Estonia's counterpart in the investigation of money laundering. We all understand that no sane person hires a goat as a toad. Only someone who is outstandingly stupid or who wants to damage the garden would do so. Mr. Prime Minister! A cooperation agreement with the current legal advisor of money laundering managers would provide a legal basis for providing all the information about the evidence that the Estonian authorities have managed to collect about money laundering that has taken place. Can you give us any other reason why such a contract could have been concluded? And if you don't, when are you going to end this contract?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U5	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy members of the Riigikogu and a good questioner! First of all, have a nice autumn session! Thank you for that question. I start with the fact that I think that the subject of money laundering in Estonia must, at any time, today and tomorrow, unfortunately, I cannot say that yesterday there is a zero tolerance. If we do not address this issue, or if this money laundering issue is dealing with us here in Estonia, it can be a very serious threat to our economy and also to security. The possible washing of black money through Estonia could certainly be used to attack our interests. The funds obtained through this could be used in terrorism or other activities undermining the interests of other countries. Now, what you're asking for is a law firm contract. I remember very well that even when there was a previous coalition with social democrats at the table with the Fatherland and the Centre Party, there was a discussion on this subject in the context of our due diligence, according to the fact that Estonia must also represent its interests in the United States. There was a debate on whether it was conceivable to conclude such an agreement or agreement. This government coalition, which has the EKRE, the Fatherland and the Centre Party, decided to approve the draft agreement at the Cabinet meeting. It was March 26th. Of course, we didn't know who the contract was going to be signed with. This task remained with the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance in general. Now that you are asking what the purpose of this agreement is, the purpose of the agreement is indeed to provide the Estonian government with a legal service so that an agreement can be concluded with the US competent authority to transfer part of the amounts of fines due to Estonia. Yeah, the contract's worth $3 million. To this end, there will be money for this and next year, in the country's budgetary strategy we want to foresee these funds. And if you ask in any way whether this amount is too high or too low, I think it is the price on the market that is being charged to such amounts after these contracts are being made. And the contract also provides for a success fee that we know about, but it's confidential information.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U6	Indrek Saar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U7	Thank you for your answer. Unfortunately, you did not answer my question directly, but I do conclude that you are not going to terminate this agreement, despite the fact that there are only a number of questions and its benefits to see and be happy about it, including Mr Helme, who seems to be ashamed of this agreement and constantly looking for excuses for not answering the substantive questions involved. So he has not appeared before the respective committees of the Riigikogu and ignores, among other things, the fourth power, or part of the press, in answering the relevant questions. It should be clear to you, Prime Minister, that the fact that the Minister does not appear before the Riigikogu committees is a very direct obstacle to the work of the Riigikogu. And that is also contrary to the law, because it is not possible to carry out parliamentary scrutiny and the public cannot provide answers. Not to mention that the public will not receive answers even if the media do not respond, they will be ignored. Nevertheless, it seems that you sit back and watch it all from you. How and when do you intend to get your cabinet minister to comply with the law and answer legal and legitimate questions of the Riigikogu on this subject? When will you stand up for the press so that they can do their job and say that Martin Helme should answer them directly and correctly?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U8	Thank you. First of all, the contract will be terminated as soon as the contract is no longer performed by either party. I think you are saying that this agreement must be terminated because there is a potential conflict of interest in this agreement or its partner. We can assess this in two respects. One is what this law firm has said. We have a letter dated 22 June 2020 with which the Freeh Office has sent the Ministry of Finance a confirmation that they do not have a conflict of interest. And there is a separate point in the agreement on avoiding conflicts of interest, also in future activities. That's point one. And the second aspect on which we can assess the conflict of interest is what the Minister of Finance says. And he says that this law firm doesn't have a conflict of interest. Well, I understand you're saying it's political rhetoric, that I'm sitting around with my hands up, and I'm not doing anything. On the contrary! I think that in the previous government I was in, and also in this government, we have wanted to perform due diligence in the fight against money laundering. Today, it must be quite frankly said that this legal party, the dispute settlement party, the court party, which is extremely difficult in the United States, definitely requires Estonia to have a partner who would represent Estonia's interests there. When you think about who has been sitting around, doing nothing, I think that the whole period that has been completely excluded from the scale of this debate has been stalled. I think that the members of the government at the time who were responsible for this, be it the Prime Minister or the Minister of Finance, and also among the first members of the Financial Supervision Authority Council, have sat in their hands. I asked my colleagues today for an excerpt, how many times the issue of money laundering has been discussed in the government office in 2008-2015. The answer was, not once. We have discussed this issue repeatedly in the previous government, and also in this government, and we will certainly be discussing it in the future. So if one or the other party does not comply with this agreement, then the agreement must be terminated. Or when they say there's a conflict of interest. We can only assess this in two respects, and both assessments have said that there is no conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U9	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U10	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! Whether you have discussed anything should also be made clear by some knowledge and viewpoints. Right now, you're repeating exactly the same points you've been caught with for weeks. As for the past, find out what happened in 2014, when Danske's business risk was actually exposed. But I don't want to talk about the past, I want to talk about the present. I thought when you gave Delfi an interview two weeks ago, some embarrassing mistake happened that you weren't familiar with the documents. But you're saying exactly the same thing, even though it was very popular on the Internet as a video. Tell me, in the meantime, have you read what was actually written by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs when recommending that official contacts with Freeh be avoided, which was written by the Foreign Intelligence Service, and which was recorded in the U.S. Senate Foreign Intelligence Report, that Freeh received responsibilities on the same matter from the opposite side, the Kremlin? Have you, in the meantime, been familiar with the documents or are you going to repeat the points of discussion that demonstrate that you have not fully understood the subject and do not belong to your circle of interests?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U11	Thank you. I'm sorry, but if these accusations are coming at me completely unjustly, I say that if anyone is caught on this subject, I think Mr. Ligi, you must look in the mirror. During this period, as I said in reply to Mr Indrek Saare, Jürgen Ligi, and most of the time the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, Jürgen Ligi, have fulfilled the duties of the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Estonia. In my opinion, there was not enough political action in dealing with money laundering, which is also confirmed by the fact that this has never been discussed in substance in the government office during this period. Now this Delfi video you mentioned. Of course, I was familiar with it before I made this video, during the video, and I am today. The Senate Reconnaissance Report of the U.S. Congress confirms what has already been reported in the Estonian press in the past, and this is the claim that Louis Freeh has had various meetings with the Russians. However, it does not confirm that Freeh has a conflict of interest in the present case. Freeh has itself assessed that his previous activities as a lawyer do not lead to a conflict of interest in representing Estonia in the money laundering dispute. Now, the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which you know very well, because you have dealt with this background study in your committee, which has been for internal use. They've evaluated, as you know, three law firms. A summary of the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is available on the last page. It's nicely described what the State Department's background check says about it. You have also mentioned the Foreign Intelligence Office, and I have also studied this opinion thoroughly. The Foreign Intelligence Office also evaluates three law firms. So you know these estimates, I know those estimates. And it has to be acknowledged that these assessments are slightly contradictory in content.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U12	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U13	Let's go to the next question. Question number two from Kaja Kallas. He'll be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U14	Thank you. Prime Minister! I'll pick up where we just left off. I repeat once again that the Estonian Foreign Intelligence Board, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, also the Estonian Ambassador to the United States, has put together a memo that clearly says that Freeh's law firm is not in good writing and has links with Russian money launderers. But you've been repeating everywhere and you've been saying that Freeh's law firm has announced that they don't have a conflict of interest, and that's enough for you. Please say here in front of the Riigikogu today: why do you not trust the Estonian authorities and trust an American law firm and its letter?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U15	Thank you. I certainly trust the Estonian authorities. When we're talking about this background check that came from the embassy, they've evaluated, like I said, three law firms. The conclusion of the embassy is that it recommends the choice between the two first-named law firms. These first two law firms have said that they do not make an offer in this case because they have a conflict of interest. Absolutely, that logic doesn't add up! If these two law firms themselves have said that they do not do, that they cannot make an offer because of a conflict of interest, then they cannot choose between the first two.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U16	Echo Kallas, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U17	Thank you. Even in Estonia, there are in fact considerably more than three law firms. There are more than three law firms in the United States. But I'm still asking. Now that you say that you trust the Estonian authorities, I will ask you again. The State Department made it very clear that it would not recommend signing a contract with this law firm. If you know the negative assessment of this Freeh office by the Estonian authorities, why don't you let this contract be terminated? And could you also show in your actions that you trust the Estonian authorities more than you trust any American law firm?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U18	Thank you. I will definitely terminate this agreement as soon as the obligations contained in this agreement are not fulfilled or when the law firm has misplaced input when it comes to concluding this agreement. Today, it is not possible for us to assess this conflict of interest in any other way than in the light of what this law firm says. You've worked in this world yourself, and you should know that very well. This law firm has confirmed that there is no conflict of interest in this matter. And this is our chance to evaluate these law firms. There are, I think, hundreds, if not thousands of lawyers in Estonia and the United States. In conclusion, however, this issue, Freeh's issue, which has come up in this whole money laundering case, is, in my opinion, quite skillfully focused, must be acknowledged. Mr Ligi has quite skilfully drawn attention, I would say, not to such an important subject, to a secondary issue. An important issue is how Estonia performs its due diligence in anti-money laundering activities, how Estonia stands up for defending its interests. In a very long period, when there has been money laundering in Estonia between 2008 and 2015, not enough has actually been done, and I think that not enough has been done, as I said, by politicians. Of course, we must get personal: most of the time was in the hands of the Reform Party, both the portfolio of the Prime Minister and the finance minister. But if you ask about this agreement, which has become like the most important issue for you, then yes, if this agreement is not fulfilled, then of course it must be terminated. I also asked to find out the reputational damage that Estonia has suffered in connection with all this money laundering. And unfortunately, it has been very massive. This has been reflected. We will summarise the stories related to Estonia in 2019: there have been 2403, half of which appeared in the US media. And we don't have to do too much research and think about how this money laundering has been most reflected. As a rule, these stories have been negative. We need to take action, we need to move forward on this issue. That's why it's a law firm contract. It's part of the job. But, yeah, in the end, agreements with law firms aren't signed by the Government of the Republic. There are a lot of these being made in ministries. When the draft agreement came through the office, as I said, one of the main issues was that, since it was necessary to finance this agreement, certain financing decisions were also needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U19	Thank you. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U20	Thank you. Good George, you're in a tough spot, of course. I understand that the Minister of Finance has concluded an agreement that is undoubtedly not of high quality in content, and the process that is taking place around it, involving concealment, lying, a clear disregard for the principles of parliamentary democracy, is undoubtedly unpleasant for the Estonian Government and for you, as head of this government. Well, in this situation, go attacking those who ex officio exercise parliamentary supervision over the Government of the Republic, I don't think that's gonna do you any honor. I understand why this has to be done politically, but honor does not. Now it's a question of conflict of interest. The Estonian authorities have evaluated the three offices, because the Minister of Finance pulled out the three who, unfortunately, are all strangely scandalous. For all three, the Estonian authorities, both one and the other, basically said that, to a greater or lesser extent, they have been densely infiltrated by Russian customers, influences, past representation, etc. Two of these offices themselves confirmed that we are so densely infiltrated by Russia that we cannot offer you an offer and we will not cooperate. The third submitted its offer and was awarded a contract. Do you think the most logical conclusion is that if we know from background that all three are either directly unreliable or untrustworthy offices, two of them say they are in conflict of interest, and if the third one says he isn't, then the correct conclusion is that he isn't? Is that the most logical conclusion in this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U21	Thank you. First of all, yes, I agree that, for all three offices, there have, of course, been doubts about the conflict of interest. Yeah, that's true. Now whether or not one office has a conflict of interest. In this room or in this world, it's got to be confirmed by a law firm or by saying that he's not participating in this offer. As I told you, there is written confirmation from this law firm from 22 June that it does not have a conflict of interest, and it has also confirmed this in its press release. There is not much more for the Estonian state and for us to assess whether this confirmation is true or not. We must believe that if we wish to conclude this agreement with them. This agreement has been prepared by the Minister of Finance along with his colleagues. And as I said, it went through the office, but it wasn't about a particular company. At that point there was also a knowledge or sense of how much such a contract could cost in such a market. And that is what the Minister of Finance is about when we talk about this in financial terms, but in fact, we have respected the content of the agreement. So there's no way we're somehow going to re-evaluate this law firm's endorsement.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U22	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U23	And next, question number 3: Riina is going to ask Sikkut and she will be answered by Finance Minister Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U24	Thank you, good Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. To be honest, I was surprised a few months ago. When the subject of the agreement with Freeh arose, I thought that before the Riigikogu and for journalists you would normally be confident, you say that, uh, I have a government mandate, it's a great agreement, hundreds of millions will come home, you'll see it. But somehow it went the other way. You did not follow the principle that the public of governance is the foundation of democratic governance. You did not cooperate with other ministries in preparing the agreement, as foreseen by the government's decision. You did not trust the assessments of the Estonian authorities and research institutions, who did not recommend the conclusion of the contract with the Freeh Office. The public still does not know how the three agencies were reached, who drew up the contract, how the performance of the contract was assessed. You just don't answer Delfi's questions. It's so surprising that I have a question about what you're afraid of. What is it that the public cannot know?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U25	Thank you. I should start answering myself a little bit more widely. I'm surprised again at how brazenly, shamelessly lied during this whole discussion. Today, too, there has been a follow-up lie in this Chamber when asking questions. Indrek Saar reports that I insult the Riigikogu without coming to committees. Please, show me which committee I have not come to. If some opposition ambassadors hold hatemints in the Riigikogu somewhere, the session of the Riigikogu commission is not. Without the agenda, without the quorum, the meetings of the Riigikogu Committee have not taken place. And I have not missed any committee hearing. To make that claim is to lie to the public. And it's shameless. In the same way, lying to the public is when you say that I have not coordinated my actions with government or other areas of government. I've given you on paper or electronically all the materials you've asked for. The fact that public affairs are blind to the Riigikogu is not true. That's lying, too. All the papers you've been asked for, you've got it. And it is very clear from this series of papers that the issue has been taken to government, there have been discussions in government, there has been a decision by the cabinet, followed by government decisions. On the basis of this mandate and within the limits of this mandate, I have been preparing the procurement, involving the Ministry of Justice, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including the Foreign Office through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Foreign Intelligence Office. So to make a peaceful claim that I have acted in an arbitrary way, in secret, in violation of any procedure, is simply brutal defamation. And it has to be totally categorically rejected here. It is perfectly understandable that you do not like this subject being dealt with. The Reform Party was represented for a long time by the Minister of Finance, the Minister of the Interior, and later by the Minister of Justice in the office of the Minister of Social Democrat and also the Minister of the Interior. And there is nothing to show for this period in the fight against money laundering, but there is a series of disasters that today's government is wrestling with. That's the nature of the whole thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U26	Thank you! Riina Sikkut, please specify the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U27	Thank you. That was an expected answer. What you're afraid of, you didn't answer, but there seems to be something you're afraid of. Because you didn't come to the Special Committee on State Control last night. Your advisors didn't come to the joint meeting of the special committees. How long did it take the members of the Riigikogu to see the agreement with the Freeh Office?! How many times was that asked?! And it finally came in partially black. You can read it in a locked closet. You've done everything you can to make it difficult for us to access information. However, since the Prime Minister has repeatedly pointed out that the agreement will be terminated as soon as it does not have the effect of sounding very logically, it is difficult to argue against it, have you informed the Prime Minister of everything? Has Freeh, Sporkin & Sullivan started fulfilling the contract? Have they reached the second stage yet? Who decides to make payments? Does the contract set time limits or interim reporting obligations for works or does not exist? What is the quality of execution after which the money is paid out? Who appreciates it, who can evaluate it in Estonia, and are these suddenly the same authorities whose recommendation not to sign the agreement you did not trust?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U28	Thank you. Yeah, I can totally... I reject another lie that I did not appear yesterday at the National Budget Control Committee. The question came from the National Budget Control Committee at the end of last week was whether I could come to the Commission. I said I could. Then they said, "Let me come on Monday." I told you I had a calendar full on Monday. Can we do it next week? They said, "No, you don't have to. " So please don't tell me I refused to come. You know very well, as a former minister, you certainly know that the ministers' calendars are filled up in advance for several weeks. It is not the case that we are told two days in advance that two hours need to be emptied that day. That is not possible, and this has never happened. This has never happened! So there is no need to spread the lie again here as if I had refused to come to the Commission. It is true that my advisers asked the Commission to talk to them about what we are doing. My answer was that this committee is a flea circus, it deals with pseudonymisation and spreading lies, there is no need to go. It's so easy! And when it is said that they have an obligation to come, they are confused and I think it is inappropriate for members of the Riigikogu for the sections of the Home and Working Procedures Act, which talk about special committees and committees of inquiry. They have different competences. Have I done so-called success reports to the Prime Minister or other ministers? Firstly, I would like to say that the Estonian state has concluded legal aid agreements quite a lot. The Ministry of Justice regularly employs legal aid providers. For example, the Ministry of Justice hired legal aid for a dispute in the Supreme Court on the subject of the second pillar. And I don't think any of you think that Raivo Time is making current reviews of how the contract was honoured and on what day the bill came and on what day the transfer was made. It's not done. This has not been done before, and I do not think that there will be any other agreement. If you say what I'm afraid of in answer to the last question, I'm not afraid of anything. I have, however, clearly come to the conclusion in the last month and a half that I am afraid of other people somewhere else, and panictically afraid. And actually, I think we'll finally find out what they're afraid of. This thing's moving. This thing's moving! So I have nothing to fear. It is not the case either that if we only have some three lines in the government's minutes or the cabinet's minutes that we discussed the subject and the decision was made that was so laconical that the debate was. Believe me, the government's discussions are much longer and more thorough. And believe me again and again, as former ministers, you certainly know that members of the government are also talking to the Prime Minister outside the office and outside the protocol.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U29	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! Only recently did the President chair Parliament, who said that if Parliament calls the Minister, the Minister will come. The members of the Riigikogu joked that the minister would come running. You are today spreading a new democracy, a style of parliamentary scrutiny, according to which the Minister will come to Parliament whenever he wants. I think it doesn't show your strength, as you're trying to make an impression, but your absolute weakness. Two-month planning is normal for the Minister, but it is abnormal to find a time to communicate with Parliament in two months' time. But in fact, you can only do this because the Prime Minister allows such a culture to be cultivated and does not call the Minister to order. It was quite evident today that you do not understand the depth of this problem and the security risk. That is what your last speeches on defence refer to, in fact, your desire to reduce these amounts. But imagine now that you have entered into a contract with a law firm that has clearly represented the Russian side. In this case, fellow citizens will wonder whether the taxpayer's money, which I think you belong to, has already paid as a partial advance, will not go either for the benefit of those former parties represented. But they're trying to play out the fact that we're going to have a huge benefit, a financial victory as a result of this investigation. Tell me, why are you playing with fire?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U31	Well, now there's another lie to disprove. I do not want to reduce the money for defence spending. On the contrary, the content of my proposal was to put more money into defence expenditure, but to restructure it so that it would go to specific large acquisitions, or capacity gaps, which we have 25 years to fill. So this lie must also be rejected. The second, next and quite nasty lie is that Louis Freeh is some kind of Russian agent or a Russian, I don't know, in the service. Well, that's just crazy talk. That's crazy! No one has really shown a conflict of interest during the whole discussion that we have had here for the last months and a half, because it is not. Anyone who knows for a little bit what a conflict of interest is - Jüri Ratas tried to explain it to you - knows that conflict of interest in practically all Western countries is defined in this way: no different parties can be represented on the same matter. We don't have the same thing and we don't have these different sides right now. What we're talking about is the connection between Louis Freeh and another company several years ago. These links are over and they are not even close to the same thing. So no one has ever shown any conflict of interest. That's why they don't really talk about it, either, but they're trying to build some kind of Russian agent. We have really discovered America here in Estonia when Jürgen Ligi and Holger Roonemaa discover that the former FBI agent is a long-standing Russian agent, the former director of the FBI being a long-term Russian agent. Now, about not coming to committees. It's not like I haven't found the time in two months. It hasn't been like that! There have been two joint sessions of special committees from the period we are talking about, and now there have already been more, and the Riigikogu has come back to work. But there were two sessions in the intersessional period where neither of me was invited. I'm not invited! And to tell you that I haven't shown up... Well, first of all, let us take into account that it is very unusual to hold special committees during the summer period. During the holidays, it is much harder than usual for people to get access to. That's why some of the hearings were canceled. But I haven't asked for two months' notice. I offered a special committee that I'd be back a week later. It's something a little different, and it's a perfectly normal practice. And somehow trying to make it look like I'm, I don't know, out of control, that a flying missile has to be controlled here by the Prime Minister somehow, well, that's, I'd say, a little silly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U32	Thank you. Mr Kruuse, I did indeed say that ministers are obliged to come to the Commission when they are called, but I will add to the other side, which you have not said. I said that this can only happen at a time agreed by the parties, not at the dictatorship of the Commission. But now I will stop dealing with this question. Do you have a procedural question, Mr. Kruuse?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U33	Procedural remark. After all, the chairman actually points out that if the coalition does not want to convene the committee and legitimise that a committee meeting is taking place, it will have the opportunity to do so completely. And it's the wrong culture. We should always have the opportunity to convene the Commission in order to exercise parliamentary supervision.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U34	This is really not a procedural issue, but I note that the functioning of our committees is enshrined in our Home and Working Procedures Act and must be observed. That concludes this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U35	Let us go to the question number 4, which is asked by Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and answered by Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U36	Thank you, good Chairman. First of all, as a comment on this previous exchange of words: I am obliged to remind you that, despite your political hierarchy, you are not here as a representative of the EKRE in front of the Chamber. You are the chairman of the entire parliament, President of the Riigikogu, I ask you to act accordingly! Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! While governments and states are required to conclude agreements on state secrets concerning security, the selection of a potential contractor is subject to quite thorough background work. And this background paper is based not only on the verbal assessment of this potential contractor itself, but also on a much wider study of different circumstances. We have now seen the report of the Senate Intelligence Committee of the United States, which is public and which says that this representative, whom we have talked about in Question Time today, has received guidelines from the authorities of the Russian Federation on money laundering matters related to Estonia. Unlike the same report of the Senate Intelligence Committee of the United States, unlike its assessment, the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs' assessment of Louis Freeh and his office still remains public. Given the public interest in this subject, given all the issues that are airborne, the conflicting information about what is contained in this assessment, I have a proposal for you to make this assessment public. And my question is: are you ready to disclose the assessment made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Estonian Embassy in the United States, on this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U37	Thank you. A pig pig pig was taken, and a Russian proverb came into the house. The previous government discussed that it is actually reasonable for the Estonian state to hire a law firm from America to represent its interests in order to fulfil its duty of due diligence. Where did I get this idea as Minister of Justice anyway? Hans H.Luik came to me with an American lawyer, not as legendary as the one we're discussing right now. We discussed this and hired a look, a big move! The Estonian law firm to find out whether it could be justified to represent the interests of the Estonian state in proceedings of this type in the territory of the United States under their jurisdiction. We discussed in the government and found it useful to work on it. During this government, we moved on. Now the question is whether the law firm has received any state secret permits. No, I haven't! As the Minister of Finance said next to me, in fact, the situation is that a lawyer in Estonia, a lawyer who in turn represents this law firm, has obtained a state secret permit and has also passed control. A person receives a state secret permit, not a law firm as a legal person. Now the question of what, what huge dramatic secrets this State Department background memo contains. It includes Estonian diplomats proved what they have received from third parties whose names are not mentioned in this memo. To the extent of one long paragraph, this text refers to the attention of third parties to the reputation of Louis Freeh as a person and not to the reputation of that law firm. This is information received from third parties concerning the reputation of Louis Freeh, with no mention of sources. And the embassy, of course, stresses, which is also correct, that the embassy is not a surveillance authority on the territory of the United States that can verify whether the claims of these third parties are legally valid. I think that the Estonian state has taken rational steps regarding the background check of this law firm, which concerns the fact that the Ministry of Finance turned to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The information requested by the Ministry of Finance could serve as a basis for their decision. But now the question is, am I gonna say that if I'm in the public interest, I'm gonna go public with the State Department memos? I say this, leaving all drama aside, that basically my learned and highly respected friends in Parliament have already quoted this memo, perhaps with one emphasis or another, according to their own logic. This has, of course, been made available to Members of Parliament. Do I create a practice that, if there is a public interest, I will disclose the trusted texts of Estonian diplomats? I have this legal jurisdiction. I consulted the people of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on this issue. The current practice, as you know as a former Minister of Foreign Affairs, is that the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not disclose its memos. Its logic is actually linked to the objective that third parties would also be prepared to provide information reliably with Estonian diplomats. This is a matter of precedent. Does this have to do with some huge freaking drama that the earth is now collapsing? I think those who have read know that what has been referred to is in there. There is no factual additional information in fact.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U38	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, a specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U39	Thank you. Good Secretary of State, you probably just broke your own record in a minute at the speed of word set, but you didn't answer my question with substance. My question was not about the debate between diplomats; my question was not about the information communicated to embassies in our communication, but about the background assessment submitted to the Cabinet, which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs added to these materials. And I ask you this way: is the assessment or background study of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the conclusion that Louis Freeh is not a reliable contractor or a good contractor for Estonia's reputation, either as a person or as a representative of the law firm? Was this knowledge available to the members of the government office before they decided that the contract would be made with this law firm? Did this assessment of you, the State Department's assessment, the background study, have been made available to the cabinet members before, so they had the opportunity to get to know it in advance?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U40	Thank you. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a background check after the Ministry of Finance requested. And what's the conclusion of this study? Are these huge secrets, like they're trying to make an impression here? For God's sake, this has been quoted several times here, as have the Members of Parliament. It states that third parties have indicated that there are problems with the Freeh person or, in fact, his reputation, and recommended that consideration be given to the choice between the two other offices. That's it, that's all the information that's in there. Has the Government of the Republic made a decision to hire the Freeh Bureau? The answer is no: no. The Government of the Republic took the view at the Cabinet meeting that it was reasonable to hire a US law firm and was authorised to select the Office of the Ministry of Finance to represent the interests of the State. And the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had to cooperate. So, separately, the government has not discussed in any way whether to hire Freeh's office or not to hire Freeh's office. To even discuss hiring a law firm, I agree. It's a very high level of management, but I'm not going to say that we're drilling it at the level of the legislator. There. In its day, the question was about Tallinn Water, who actually took too much money. We went and passed the law on monopoly control, didn't we? And now the Estonian state was given Paris arbitration. We said that we would not enter into an agreement; we would protect Estonian consumers; we would protect the law of the Estonian state. And then, in fact, the government, I was the Minister of Justice, or the Ministry of Justice hired a law firm. Some law firms who are there, what is there, really, at this high level of management, didn't deal with it. To tell you the truth, if you're ordering me to name the technical nuances of a law firm under oath today, I'm gonna be stuck. It was an official-level decision. I don't think it's a high-profile political decision-making level. I want to tell you the good news. The Republic of Estonia won Paris in arbitration; 100 million euros remained for the Estonian taxpayer because we did not chicken out. And that's how you do it. For our rights, for our rights, for the interests of our country, no one in this world stands for any other than ourselves. To this end, we have been given competence, we have been given responsibility, and it must be guided. And now, in fact, we're putting things in the right perspective. Our problem is that there have been major financial offences in our country's territory. And there is no doubt that the Estonian state must regard itself as a victim who is interested and we are interested in finding out the maximum truth and prosecuting the guilty, to the extent that the proceedings taking place in the territory of third countries, under their jurisdiction, and also in obtaining damages. I actually asked a question in the committees; this committee debate was very important. I asked the committees a fundamental question: is it reasonable that we are actually ready to realise our law enforcement interests? And the members of the committees said that yes, that is correct, Urmas. That's what they said. At least a number of Members of the Commission had such an attitude. And it's right not to chicken out. Of course, we need to get things straight. Martin also talks in the Commission, gives an overview, and there is no need to imagine that there is something behind things that is not really there. [[Something's coming out of the hall.]] I answered the question. The government alone didn't make that Freeh decision, that's the answer. Consequently, neither did the government have any separate decision to make on a single agency. It was the power of the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U41	Next you can ask Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U42	Thank you. Mr. Reinsalu! Complimentary: I am pleased that you did not sell the information and recommendation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Foreign Intelligence Board to refrain from personal formal relations with a particular lawyer before our special committees. That's a compliment! And it also got the protocol that you said you wouldn't have entered into the contract on the basis of that information. But surely you didn't sell either, you never sold the Minister of the Interior of the Fatherland, Marko Pomerants, or Ken-Mart Vaher, who in fact, in those famous years, was directly responsible for the supervision of money laundering. It's the Department of the Interior, after all. And that's what's beautiful, and I'll say it as a compliment. You don't get to smear people who have an explanation for what they're doing. Now I ask you as Minister of Foreign Affairs. Tell me, do you think that what is happening here is good for Estonia's reputation? All Ministers of the Interior and Justice will be excluded and attempts will be made to prove that everything was done wrong or not done in one particular area of the Ministry of Finance in Estonia. We know that in 2014 the Danske case was actually discovered business risks, not something that the Minister of the Interior can do, but Danske business risks, thanks to the Financial Supervision Authority's audit. Secondly, in 2014, we had exemplary regulations. Tell me if you think it is good to tarnish this past in such a way as to protect Estonia's reputation at the moment: we had a duty of due diligence and so on, etc. Is it right for the Financial Supervision Authority and knows who else to blame for failing them? How do you feel as Minister of Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U43	Congratulations, Jürgen! You're asking me how I think the state's reputation should be protected, and at the same time you've got 'compliment' inside, why the crooks Pomerants and Vaher didn't arrest those money launderers as Home Secretary. I understand you have the Karilaiu complex. I mean, Jaanus has been going around it in this Parliament and has actually been developing these topics. No, I don't think we pay our people, in our country... We understand that this is a matter of our country's reputation; it is actually a matter of public finances and financial credibility. The worst thing we can do is start throwing a dead dog like WaterBrew over the fence. I don't think it's constructive, Jurgen. The least we can accept is the truth. The truth is sometimes very difficult, very difficult. Let me remind you that Victor Hugo has said, "It's easy to be kind, it's hard to be fair. " In this regard, we must try to overcome the fact that the parties have signed up and to rise higher in the sense that this is our common cause. We need to find solutions to what has happened. We have an amazing situation where we are trying to transform. And I don't think anyone here is pure of sin. I understand that logic, the political temptation. But the current situation is transformed. The government, and the continuing second government, already wants to identify the interests of the state. And now it turns out that somehow the telescope becomes a microscope. The problem is not money laundering, which we are discussing here in Parliament, but the problem is that a money laundering investigator was hired to do a good job or not. I fully agree with the Prime Minister: no doubt the Government has a right to know. The Ministry of Finance gives an overview of whether this law firm performs the tasks for which it has received the funds. All right, he gets paid, and so on. And then there's a way to evaluate it. But to set things up now as a way to discredit, I would stress that it is certainly very thoughtful of people outside our borders who read everything that's being assessed here, to discredit the good faith step of the government that we are taking according to the logic behind it... I don't know what the half hints or the dramatic clues here all sounded like, I don't think it's rational. This does not correspond to the interests of the country, our taxpayers and the country's financial stability in the current situation. So the question you asked me directly, Jürgen, I can answer you, honestly, yes. Your question was that I can answer you with peace of mind: yes. To your question, which was clearly whether there really is a reason to defend the interests of the state, whether there is a reason not to charge each other with false accusations, I say yes, yes, yes. Here we are on one side of the front line, there's no one else. And in the defence of the Estonian state against money laundering, we are Martin, I, Prime Minister, Henn and you, all on the same side of the front line. [[Jürgen Ligi says something about the hall.]] How? Repeat the question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U44	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U45	How? Why don't you repeat the question? What was the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U46	I will conclude on this issue. It will continue to be possible to ask questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U47	Let's go to the registered questions. Number 5 is asked by Jaak Juske and answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U48	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! I hope that you will answer the questions clearly, specifically, do not spin or quote Russian proverbs. In fact, at the beginning you did not answer the second question of your good colleague, Indrek Saare, concerning the non-participation of the Minister for Finance of your government in the meetings of the Riigikogu committees to which he has been repeatedly invited. Since this agreement has caused much confusion and much secrecy, it is logical that the members of the Riigikogu have had many questions for the minister that the members of the Riigikogu want to carry out parliamentary scrutiny. But if the minister does not want to appear on committees, the Riigikogu cannot do the work prescribed for him. That is my question: I ask for your specific position, your assessment, is this the new policy of your government, the attitude that if the minister does not want to participate in the work of the parliamentary committees to which he has been invited, he does not have to do so? If you say that this is not the position and policy of your government, then I have another question: have you made a clear comment to the Minister of Finance, have you called on him to comply with the law, to participate in the work of committees? Have you reminded him that Parliament is his employer, not anyone else?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U49	Thank you, Mr. Juske. First of all, I absolutely disagree with your attack on the Foreign Minister. You're saying he didn't answer specifically. He summarised the specific answer to the previous question, how many times he said yes, yes, yes. So more specifically, you can answer, a good answer was. And I think that the introduction of proverbs will certainly give the answer much more vividly. But now your question is whether the ministers, the members of the government, must go to the Commission. The answer is yes. Do they have to comply with the law? The answer is yes. I remember that in the summer when we were discussing this issue, the Minister of Finance immediately said that he had contact with the Commission in this case was talking about the Committee on Monetary Affairs that he was going there. That was a firm position, and he went there. I certainly do not keep the ministerial calendar in mind on a daily basis, but if I am not mistaken, the Minister of Finance also visited the Riigikogu commission today. True, not in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but in the Committee on Defence. Now I hear from here that the Minister of Finance has also told the special committee that he wishes to come, that he is trying to come and asks for a chance to turn this time into a week later. And indeed, if this is announced with little notice, especially at a time when we are having serious budget discussions at government level to hand over the budget to you, the honourable Riigikogu, it is not quite possible. Really, I'm saying you can't do it on a few days' notice. So this is, I think, a very specific answer, Mr. Juske, for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U50	Jaak Juske, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U51	Prime Minister! I didn't quite get a clear answer on whether you've put the Minister of Finance in order. Of course, I'm glad to hear that this is not your government's common practice. As we have heard at the beginning, the Minister for Finance did not insist yesterday on appearing before the Commission on the matter relating to this agreement. So I guess he hasn't changed his attitude on this. And here's my question. As Prime Minister, as Head of Government, are you fully convinced that Finance Minister Helme has done the right thing in this particular agreement that he has not made mistakes? And do you fully, unambiguously trust Minister Helmet on this matter? No, you can't. That's a very simple answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U52	Thank you. I don't know if you were in the hall or if you didn't listen to my answer. I told you or your colleagues that the draft contract was on the table in the cabinet. At the time, there was also a question of its cost plus a success fee, which is confidential information. And that's the deal. It is true that at that moment, there was no discussion of the words of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, which is the law firm. So, yes, he has definitely signed a contract within that framework, which was also under discussion in the study. It has been the responsibility of the Minister of Finance and his administration, and so it must be. If you ask me if I trust the members of my government and, specifically, Mr Helmet in his work, the answer is yes, I do.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U53	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! I do not know if you noticed what Mr Helme actually said about these committees and what expression he used. Whether it was something about hatred or I don't remember exactly, it can be looked at in the minutes as to how he felt about this committee. It actually shows why people don't want to go there or why they don't go there. As your Prime Minister, I think that you should order your ministers who behave in this way, regardless of whether a mandatory coming or a non-mandatory coming is foreseen in the rules of procedure. And I would advise you now to ask the Minister of Finance whether he has noticed whether members of the Riigikogu are paid holiday pay. He pointed out that it was difficult to get members of the committee together during the holidays, but the members of the Riigikogu do not have a well-known holiday. Members of the Riigikogu can meet and should meet every week during the summer if necessary. However, the other part of my question is motivated by the fact that I noticed such a passionate performance by Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu. Would the Minister of Foreign Affairs equally passionately represent the interests of the country, which he himself has expressly stated, insisting on occupation damage from Russia? Has Mr Reinsalu rediscovered and defended the interests of the Estonian state as passionately as he did in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U55	Thank you. Yeah, well, you're gonna make it from Freeh, I don't know where. But all right, of course I'll answer you. First, point one: I have seen Urmas Reinsalu as a fellow minister for three years and about ten months. It has been in two ministerial positions, both as Minister of Justice and as Minister of Foreign Affairs. I answer your question: yes, Urmas Reinsalu is at least during the period when I have been a member of the government at the same time, very passionately, strongly, clearly, specifically defending the interests of the Estonian state and the Estonian people. Always! I can assure you of that, so there's no need to doubt it. Now, this appearance or not appearing on the committees. The committees will certainly be held when the members of the Riigikogu, when invited by the committees, go to the members of the government. They're trying to make an appointment. That's what the Minister of Finance said today. He tried to make an appointment, but he said he didn't need an answer. And he didn't say I'd be here in a month or a year. There was a request, as he did, so he could come in a week. If you are talking about holiday within the framework of the Home and Working Procedures Act, having also been a member of the Riigikogu, I fully agree that a member of the Riigikogu works all 365 days, and that does not depend on whether there is a week of sitting or a week of sitting, whether it is session time or time between sessions. But I think that when the Minister of Finance spoke about the holiday, he was based on the fact that when the Riigikogu commission invites a member of the government, the member of the government really does have a holiday. And that's what you know from your previous experience. Whether or not someone was on vacation at that moment, I am not going to tell you here because I do not have this information at hand, but as far as I know, ministers were on vacation during the summer period. But, of course, the question is also whether or not a committee meeting is taking place, and this must be organised by the Riigikogu. But once again, when this topic was up in the summer, I really had a conversation with the Minister of Finance. He immediately said that he had been in contact with the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and that it was an appointment. And there he goes. In my opinion, this topic, which you have today, has shaped all money laundering into such a political malaka or argument. But I'm sorry, it's not a political slob or an argument, it's a very substantive issue. Money laundering has been a big problem. Much has been done to change this situation. As I said at the beginning, there must be a zero tolerance. And in my opinion, it must be the responsibility and collective effort of all of us that money laundering in Estonia cannot happen in any way in the future. Because it is a very strong negative signal for our economy, for business, but also for security. That is what we should stand for together.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U56	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U57	The next question, number 6, is asked by Jürgen Ligi and answered by Finance Minister Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U58	Thank you. Mr. Helme! I hope you'll answer me. The first question is that I am ahead of money laundering statistics when you have been Minister of Finance. Please tell me what your role has been in a particular investigation. What have you done about these money laundering incidents on a daily basis?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U59	Thank you, very good question! I guess Jürgen Ligi knows the Minister isn't a detective. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] If you ask me what I have done during my ministry in the fight against money laundering, I dare say that more than ten years before it has been done. We have greatly strengthened the financial and human resources of both the Financial Supervision Authority and the Financial Intelligence Unit. Strengthening the FIU will continue, it will come under the Ministry of Finance at the beginning of next year and will receive additional resources and people. A strategic analysis centre will also be established. We have amended several laws, among other things, for the first time in Estonia we have tightened the penalties for the crypto area; we have tightened the penalties for money laundering itself. I would point out that money laundering penalties were relaxed in 2014. Just when money laundering was on top of us, the then Minister of Justice decided to initiate the decriminalisation of money laundering penalties and some penalties. I dare say with complete calm heart that through various international cooperation contacts, I have been able to significantly improve Estonia's reputation in the field of money laundering. Among other things, I had meetings almost exactly a year ago at the U.S. Treasury Department, where we discussed this issue thoroughly. There it became very clear what is disturbing the ability of the United States of America to deal with the money laundering situation in Estonia, which, by the way, results in the same foreign legal aid agreement being made. In addition, during the current government, the Minister of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior have intensified their contacts with various research institutions. The Estonian Government will send an attaché to our embassy in the United States, whose main focus will be to cooperate in the fight against international crime, including money laundering. These are the actions we have to show about the last year and a half. And these actions will undoubtedly have consequences. If the question is, how many cases have I helped to eavesdrop on someone, then the answer is: no, that's not what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U60	Jürgen Ligi, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U61	Thank you. That's how I got it. The Minister of Finance isn't a detective. I would add that the Minister of Finance does not see the banks and does not know the content, scope and purpose of transfers of funds. I would also add that for the first time in Estonian history, the Minister of Finance does not examine statistics either. Today, the Director-General of Statistics Estonia acknowledges that the Minister is actually confirming this also by various fact-checks was not interested in statistics. But my question is this: if you say that you have acted hard, say what you think was not done by the Financial Supervision Authority as of 2014. And tell me why this has gone directly to the finance minister's area, where I want to direct my question, that in 2014 Estonian money laundering regulations were exemplary, both in Moneyval and in the Basel index. That is what concerns the Minister of Finance. However, during your term of office, infringement proceedings were opened in the European Union because the directive that you have approved had not been transposed. How did this happen? I know of a stupid amendment that was laughed out by both market participants and the Committee on Monetary Affairs. What I know is that you have called the banks and said that money laundering must be relaxed, must not be overstretched. How do these two things work out?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U62	Firstly, it is not true that the Minister of Finance does not see inside the banks. What are you talking about? The Minister of Finance is both a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank and a member of the Financial Supervision Authority. And at least in my time, the Financial Supervision Authority regularly reviews the risk appetite of banks and the client portfolios of banks. The same statistics can be obtained from Eesti Pank. Of course, we are not talking about individual transactions, but we are essentially talking about major trends. And now we get to iv, that's the main point of the question. The same Committee of Government for Money Laundering and Terrorist Prevention, chaired by the Minister of Finance by the Office, where Jürgen Ligi appeared twice throughout his five-year term of office, was repeatedly raised to the effect that, in the light of the judicial decisions of the time and the legislation at that time, control bodies, supervisory bodies, could not cope with the growing money laundering. It was repeatedly lifted up. The RAB yelled for help, the Financial Inspectorate yelled for help. There was no political will to respond to it. On the contrary, in that same year, some of the paragraphs relating to the fight against money laundering were decriminalised. This was exactly what was done at the time when the institutions that had to deal with money laundering screamed for help when they looked to the politicians. And as much as the politicians bothered to attend the meetings, no one heard that and the subject got nowhere. With regard to Moneyval's assessment, it assessed our legislation at that time from the point of view of compliance with the international rules at the time, whether the international rules are the same in force in Estonia or whether the Estonian laws are the same as the international rules. And it is true that about ten years or, say, six or seven years ago, international rules were significantly less developed and also less severe than they are today. But they didn't appreciate the substantive struggle. Whether the same laws that apply in Estonia and which comply with international rules are actually enforced in Estonia, they did not check. They did a paper check, and this, of course, was suitable for the reformist government. Pokazuha's tidy bird mail was very good, so he could beat us to the chest, so we got a '5+'. But what is actually going on, it came up with an ex-post assessment of the proceedings initiated in 2014 against Danske Bank, which the Financial Supervision Authority started after it was completely frivolous and after a critical change of management took place there. So there's an explanation for everything. If Jürgen Ligi said before that you shouldn't soil people who have an explanation for what they're doing, that's true of Louis Freeh. And in this connection, of course, I would like to tell you all that we have a contract with the law firm, not Louis Freeh. We have a contract with the law firm. But the bureau and this person shouldn't just be defaming by leaning.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U63	Thank you. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U64	Dear Minister, You can't say the problem was the government of the Ministry of Finance. The point is that money laundering is a criminal matter, and it has a major role to play in the Department of the Interior. But I will take this opportunity to ask my question, which I had registered, but which we will not reach today. So let's change the subject a little bit, and formally, it goes under that name, too, by increasing the burden of credit, some wise guys believe that the Minister is making progress. I have a simple question. I asked you the same question in the presentation of the prognosis at the Ministry and at the joint committee meeting on Monday, but I have not received an answer. Try it. Maybe tonight will work. I have a very simple question: how much of the loan money that will be taken out of this figure is forecasted to be EUR 2.86 billion in 2020 will come in handy this year? That's the number I can't find in official documents. I understand that this 2.8 billion will be spent as a whole because there is no such thing or because it does not happen, as we have been told, that this money has been taken out and it will stop on accounts and maybe it can be used for investment someday. It's not like that. I understand that today's forecast is that $2.86 billion will come in handy. 2.5 billion is the cost of the budget, of which only a small part is the additional budget for crisis relief measures, EUR 800 million. EUR 300 million will be paid back to the short-term debt taken last year. The way I see it, the money's gonna come in handy. But please, a member of the Riigikogu may not understand all the encrypted texts, so there is a question. And now I'm going to ask the Minister of Finance about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U65	Thank you. Of course, I have to say that these numbers I'm ready to start looking out of my file when it comes to the question I was waiting for. I can't get them out of here right now. But I will answer the question first of all about the connection between the administration of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Finance. The criminal investigations concerning money laundering offences are indeed under the administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Police and Border Guard Board, the Central Criminal Police and, in turn, the Financial Intelligence Unit. All kinds of surveillance, as well as pre-trial measures, are in principle carried out there. This area was curated during this period, depending on the year we look at your current opposition fellows, the Social Democrats or one of your party ministers. There is also the question of where was it when action had to be taken. And as far as the fight against money laundering under the administration of the Ministry of Finance is concerned, it focuses primarily on regulation. Focuses on supervision and regulatory supervision. It talks about the continuity of the monetary system and the systemic risks of the monetary system, and the Financial Supervision Authority plays a central role. The Financial Supervision Authority must monitor the banks' appetite for risk and the corresponding due diligence and security controls to ensure that their control capabilities are risk-appropriate. Now, when Jürgen Ligi pointed out that I called the bankers out and demanded that they behave more relaxedly in the application of the money laundering rules, this is another perverted picture. I called the bankers and we discussed with the Financial Supervision Authority how to make sure that honest companies do not suffer in the fight against money laundering. After all, the fight against money laundering focuses on violations and criminals; there cannot be honest entrepreneurs as cannon meat, as it has unfortunately happened. Here we need to find a reasonable balance and a healthy solution, not a broad table to get a tick again. I do know that we have had banks that were meant to throw so much customers overboard, and then we can report that we have solved the problem of money laundering. That's not how it works. Firstly, it will not solve the problem of money laundering and, secondly, other companies that have nothing to do with money laundering will suffer. But we'll get to the budget points when we get there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U66	Thank you. Let us close the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U67	Next is question number 7, which is presented by Lauri Läänemets, and which is answered by Finance Minister Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U68	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Minister of Finance! You're trying to rely here on Louis Freeh's authority, he's the director of the FBI and how we can condemn him. But let's remind ourselves that he was the director of the FBI 20 years ago, this old gentleman can do whatever he wants to do for whatever country he wants today. And not we in this Parliament have said that it can pose a security threat for Estonia, but the Americans themselves. That is what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has said about himself and the law firm in which he works or is a partner. In this sense, it is very important who this person is. What matters is what a law firm is. And more importantly, it seems to me, it's actually how we got to that law firm. You have said in the letter you sent to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Estonian Embassy in Washington that you are asking for background information about only three of the listed law firms. Please explain to us whether the three law firms you asked about provided you with a public service. If that was true, then who? Or did you somehow get to them differently? If so, how?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U69	Thank you. Yeah, old Mr. Freeh, yeah! I think it's just embarrassing how one very, very favorable, very, very smart and very well-connected top American player has been taken up, and he is just slanderous, brutally slanderous here in the Estonian frog team. It's so embarrassing, it's just terrible. But it is true that he left the FBI office basically at the beginning of the century, and since then he has been working in the private sector. However, I would point out that he is also systematically doing contract work for the US Department of Justice today. He works contractually with the US Department of Justice, particularly in the area of major financial crimes, dealing with different things. Among other things, he is the guardian of an agreement between the US Department of Justice and some large corporations. As is well known, in the case of financial violations in America, it is quite common for a civil agreement to be concluded between the country and its infringer. As a rule, this agreement is subject to a very high fine, but in addition, the company commits itself to renewing its internal procedures or improving its supervisory systems. Its renewal or improvement is supervised by the State and its effective implementation is supervised by a person employed by the Ministry of Justice. Louis Freeh is one of the people who has often been hired by the Ministry of Justice for this kind of work and in this connection has also been subjected to an American security check, which Freeh passed a year and a half ago. Louis Freeh passed the American security check. If he were a Russian agent, as some people here are saying crazy, it just wouldn't add up. He wouldn't pass that check. Plus where we took those three clients from. I have described this both in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and in public, but I can talk again about how we approached this matter. First, we made a round of consultations in Estonia to find out who could even have this capacity. Of course, there is no such capacity in Estonia to represent Estonia's interests in the justice system of the United States. There is no such company in Estonia. Then we did the next pick-up or background check on companies with international experience and access to various American authorities. There were about a dozen companies left behind. Some of them immediately turned down, they do not cooperate with the countries and they do not accept such agreements. And with closer surveillance, clarification of your wishes or conditions, maybe four or five companies were left, three of whom we made an offer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U70	Thank you. Lauri West Forest, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U71	Thank you. I think you know very well yourself that what is not a security threat to America may be a security threat to Estonia. So please don't bring this America up here all the time. You will like to take such Russian-friendly views in the recent past, for example, on the Belarus issue, in particular, by keeping quiet. But I still wonder who it was who did all these things, that you finally got to their law firms. And in order to make it easier to answer, tell me whether this process was carried out by an official of the Ministry of Finance or by one of your political advisors.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U72	Thank you. It's scary how often you have to reject your annoying lies. On the issue of Belarus, the Riigikogu hall only recently adopted a position, and the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia unanimously voted in favour of it. What do you mean we've been quiet about this? That's ridiculous! And the same ridiculous or even more absurd statement is that our biggest NATO ally, the United States of America, is somehow, I don't know, lower, or that they care less about the risk of Russian intelligence than Estonia. Oh, for heaven's sake! Especially in the context of what has been happening in America in the last three and a half years, where Russian influence agents are being sought from underground and underground. I'm just surprised people come up with pearls like that. But this process was carried by Finance Minister Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U73	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U74	Thank you. It was lucky for Finance Minister Martin Helme, but in your first reply, however, you used the words 'we did', 'we went', 'we made it through'. Who are these 'we' exactly? It is not a trivial question in this sense that, having worked in two ministries as a member of the Government of the Republic itself, there are certainly issues where the Minister's closest fighters can consult the Minister and make certain agreements, but I have never heard that their monetary amount could reach EUR 3 million for the taxpayer. For example, the Foreign Minister next to you spoke very nicely about how he has fought for the interests of Estonia in different trades, but he admitted that he did not know the names of the law firms who were finally elected, because this is the task of the official department. In this case, as I have been to these meetings of the special committees and have studied these papers, I am not a specialist, I am approaching it from the perspective of democracy, honesty and transparency, it has been quite shocking for me that the Estonian public service has not identified any people who would work under the Civil Service Act, apart from Minister Helme, and who would have prepared, negotiated in this particular process, etc. Now, therefore, the question is why is this. In general, the Ministry has been involved in such processes, often several ministries together with the best public service specialists in Estonia, but this has not been done in this process. Who's "we" after all? Please specify!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U75	Thank you. Well, it's nice to make a scarecrow first, then scare yourself off with it, and then walk around and talk about how scary it is. Why is that, though? But it's not like that. Who's "we"? Let us begin by saying that, in addition to the minister himself, who takes the various political initiatives within the Ministry, the next chain really is made up of ministerial advisers and then on to the Ministry of Finance's Procurement Department. The Ministry of Justice was consulted on this issue because the Ministry of Justice has done more legal aid than the Ministry of Finance. In parallel to or in conjunction with this, officials involved in the money laundering of our business department were involved, and then, of course, the chain went on with those who have already been talked about much today by the Foreign Offices of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So there were a bunch of 'we's' there, and I met them all over the process. When there were some more important options, I also spoke with the Prime Minister and other ministers. So it's all been. You've got black glasses on, you can't see anything through. But what is happening has not been opaque at all; this statement is simply a slogan. It has not been the case that no one has been spoken to and that poor people in the public service have been forced to sit in a dark basement somewhere while I am struggling. Actually, that wasn't the case. This picture is just a dystopic vision of your fear.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U76	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U77	Let us move on to the next question. This is question number 8, which is asked by Liina Kersna and answered by Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U78	Thank you. As a member of the Committee on Social Affairs, I know that the separation between a child and a mother is the most extreme step in protecting the child's interests, and this is usually only done when all other instruments have already been used. We know through the media and social media that in the Netherlands, the mother of an Estonian citizen and her five-year-old daughter are separated from each other. At the beginning of the week, there were demonstrations in several countries in front of the Dutch embassies in support of the mother and child, with 1200 people signing the petition. My question to you, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, is this: how can a country defend its citizen in this situation at all, help? What have you done and are going to do to protect the interests of an Estonian citizen of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U79	Thank you. Such questions are undoubtedly very sensitive, and the most important thing here is to put the child's interests at the centre. Dutch child protection removed her daughter from her mother on 27 May, and her mother addressed the Estonian embassy in The Hague with a consular request on 2 July of this year. I had a conversation with our Dutch consul this morning, and the consul said that the consulate has been working intensively on this case for 2.5 months. The family of the child, the mother and grandmother are thoroughly involved. Grandma lives in Estonia and I had the opportunity to talk to her at the demonstration on Monday. The consulate has been in contact with Dutch child protection, including mother's lawyers. The lawyers have been different during this period. The embassy has analyzed hundreds of pages of material related to this case. The issue of jurisdiction has been addressed. Since the child is now a double citizen and his 'primary citizenship' is Dutch citizenship and, indeed, he is also a Dutch resident, this problem is being dealt with under Dutch law. These decisions are therefore currently dealt with in Dutch courts under Dutch law and rules. The consul has submitted four requests to the Dutch authorities for child protection to include close relatives living in Estonia in the case. At the same time, the consul has assured the Dutch authorities that, on behalf of the Estonian state, he is prepared to provide all the assistance in this case. The Dutch child protection responses to the consul's applications are currently such that at this stage the focus is on conditions and cooperation to return the child to the mother. These are the words that the consul communicated to me on the basis of communication with the Dutch authorities. If the return of the child according to the Dutch consul, according to the Dutch child protection authorities, fails, then child protection will investigate the possibility of returning the child to a family living in Estonia. I have expressed my view that the Estonian state considers it important to resolve this humanitarian issue in such a way that the child is allowed to stay with his mother or with a wider family, or grandmother. I also asked to prepare a letter that this week, with my personal request on behalf of the Estonian state, I would address the Dutch State, the Dutch Foreign Minister, in order to find a humane solution between countries that would take into account and place the interests of the child and the family at the centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U80	Liina Kersna, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U81	Thank you. I thank you very much for being so active in this matter and for defending the interests of the Estonian citizen and his child. As far as I know, today this mother will be able to meet her child one hour twice a month and allegedly they will not be allowed to speak with each other in Estonian. Are you confirming this information? And if so, can the Estonian state do anything to ensure that when the child and mother meet, they can at least speak in Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U82	Thank you. Here are the facts that I have actually asked to bring about, and I am happy to present them to you as a Member of Parliament in order of work. Indeed, I too have seen people turn, information about it, as if it were required that a child who speaks Estonian, Russian and Dutch should actually communicate in Dutch via an interpreter. I would like to stress once again that we know how sensitive this issue is and how important it is to have family proximity to the mother and daughter's closeness, and to give the most of the applications that the family submits to the Dutch authorities. But the circumstances that concern it, I'm gonna give you the details in order. In these sensitive matters, we know, there are very many different aspects and our starting point is that we provide assistance to the Estonian citizen, the Estonian family. This is our starting point. And we are doing this in good faith, knowing that we will be able to develop cooperation with the Dutch authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U83	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U84	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for that answer. Your previous answers have also reflected very well the competences that have been accumulated over the years, really, the understanding that it is in the interests of transparency and good governance that it is when technical issues are solved, procurement and contracts are concluded by officials and they do so within the limits of their competence by representing Estonia well. How would you comment on the decision of the Minister to choose the Bureau and to draw up an agreement himself and decide how to proceed with this issue and what mandate to ask the Government? For what reason does the minister simply intervene in the conclusion of a legal aid agreement? The other part of the question is what would you do in a situation where the Estonian authorities know that already in the 1990s Louis Freeh was considered Russian-friendly. He's actually been away from the FBI for 20 years. He has had a Russian client, has visited Moscow several times in recent years and has met with the Russian authorities. Would you make a deal with such a partner in a hurry and without further questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U85	I'll intervene once. On the contrary, the Law on Home and Working Procedures states that a member of the government may reasonably refuse to reply if the matter does not concern the issue mentioned in the application or relates to state secrecy or if the reply would undermine the security of the state. Unfortunately, this question does not concern the issue at issue at all, but of course the Minister has the full right to respond to it. I just brought it to our good members of the Riigikogu as a reminder that if a question is asked, the question must answer the subject that was originally given up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U86	Thank you. I think, in conclusion to the previous problem, that these problems arising from the rights of a child with international concern are complex. The problems faced by third-world countries are particularly difficult, very distant from exotic countries, but Europe's problems are also sensitive. And what are these two thresholds for questions? The first question is whether this is a conflicting situation. On the basis of the information currently known to me, this is not a conflicting situation with two parents or two persons seeking control or custody of a child. These are the most typical situations where there is an international element of the law of two countries and where consular assistance from one country is, of course, in the interests of the citizen of that country. Well, that's not the situation right now. The second situation is that we have to admit that in different countries it is a threshold for the interpretation of children's rights at different levels of protection. There is no point in discussing what is right and objective, because it has been agreed at national level. We know that in some European countries, a child of a certain age must not go on the street alone, right, he must be with an adult escort. Already, this may be the basis for some problems. It is certainly very important to work together. Our starting point, however, is that the child must be with the family. I think that Estonian law must also be guided by this and that maximum cooperation must be done to ensure the safety of the child. But now the question of going with the rondoo effect is like poetry again on the subject of Louis Freeh. I think that on these issues, as to whether the Minister intervenes in these choices, I do not regard the Minister's activities as an intervention, but I regard it as his task or responsibility to head the Ministry. The government is collegially making decisions on wider issues. On the current issue, the government actually gave a mandate to make these decisions and choices to the Minister. Was the decision made by the current government basically correct to deal with the protection of Estonia's interests when looking at the money laundering issue on behalf of the United States? I think it was right. I think it is also right to appoint a special agent for the status of an attaché in the United States, which is what the government has decided. Now the question of all these Russian relations and things. I think it's good to have background information on these things. A lot has been said to me here that Reinsalu in the Commission said that he would not have signed the agreement. The question was with a different emphasis. Would I have just signed a contract on the surface of one of those memos? Of course, from the surface of this one memo, I wouldn't have signed a contract, I don't think any responsible person would be. But that means there's gotta be some information. Management information, as well as background information, improves the quality of the decision. The quality of decisions is undoubtedly a guarantee, in the case of a general, universal governance logic, that decisions can be effective and effective and help to achieve the objectives set. Our aim is to do this by not going to a certain point, to achieve solid results, to be obliged to stand up for the interests of the Estonian state in this procedure, in which the Estonian state has an important element.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U87	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U88	Let's go to the next question. This is question number 9, posed by Mr Ossinovski, and answered by Minister of Finance Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U89	Thank you. You are trying to lead the issue collectively here whether or not Estonia needs help in a foreign country in the framework of these specific procedures. But that is not really the point of today's debate. Even if the state needs it, and the government rightly thinks it needs it, it does not follow that it can be done in any way, under any contract, for any kind of money, of any quality. And, after all, the main questions that have been raised today have been the way in which the decisions that have been taken have been taken. It is clear that there has been more transparency and concealment of information on these issues than is appropriate, and more than would be expected in such a case. This undoubtedly raises further questions as to why they are trying to hide all this. Mr Reinsalu can, of course, speak nicely about the fact that, yes, of course, according to the law, the Minister of the Ministry is in charge, and then he will see to himself how things are organised. But as we all know very well who we are in the government, it is very exceptional for this type of decision that the Ministry will negotiate long negotiations on behalf of the Estonian state with its closest few political fellow fighters, with a price of 3 million euros. This is still relatively unprecedented. I have two specific and simple questions for the Minister of Finance. By letter dated 20 April, you asked the Estonian ambassador in America to assess the background of these three offices. The embassy replied to you that when the embassy contacted these three, the offices had already been dealt with quite thoroughly on behalf of the Estonian state. Among other things, two offices told the embassy that they have explained their potential conflict of interest to Estonian parties in the course of their previous contact. Could you state by name who contacted these three offices on behalf of the Estonian state before the embassy in Washington did so?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U90	Thank you. Well, I'd still like to reject another hopelessly repeatable slogan that we've had some kind of cover-up. No information is hidden. None of the requested documents have been left unsent. It is true that there has been a struggle to ensure that confidential business secrets or documentation provided by the State for professional use do not circulate freely throughout the entire world. In fact, it is very bad that we in Estonia have to deal with the fact that if we have a document with limited use, then usually no one cares about this 'limited use' there is like fashionable, it is only a slogan. Now, I haven't done anything alone. I would like to point out that in the Council of Ministers of the European Union, the Minister is sitting all alone, not even with the advisers, and he is doing very well. I think what you're always messing with is that you forget that a client doesn't equal a lawyer. This is the most important cornerstone of the Western judicial area; even the greatest criminal must receive legal aid. It would be unthinkable if we had such logic that if a lawyer helped someone, whether they were convicted or not afterwards, the lawyer would be treated as a client. In this case, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the very same Prevezon, of whom much has been said, was finally unconvicted, i.e. it has all been just one big noise and the noise that has been made to it. The accusation that helping money launderers has taken place is factually wrong, or another slander and lying. No one has been convicted of money laundering, so to say that there has been a connection with money launderers is basically slander. And now the question... I'll add one more thing first. The same Tallinn Water, which Urmas talked about, the arbitrage cost 4 million euros. It didn't go through the government, it was a regular ministerial contract. No one asked why, how, and who saw how many councillors and officials were involved. So there have been even bigger sums. But I forgot the question. [[The manager will explain.]] Oh, I can still answer that, yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U91	Evgeny Ossinovski, a specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U92	Yeah, I'd still ask for an answer. These tirates can be left there on New News and Sunday radio shows. Now I would like an answer to the question of who, in the name of the Estonian state, contacted three of these law firms before the Estonian embassy approached them in Washington. This is the first question to be answered in concrete and clear terms instead of tirate of the previous question. And the second question: last October, you visited the United States and met with an international law firm. Was this one of the three law firms that were offered this time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U93	I've got plenty of tirates for the radio show, this hall, and the New News. They're not gonna stop. And it is nice to note that our parliamentary debate is one where everyone has enough. It is often the case that a question cannot be asked for two minutes because the entire steam goes elsewhere. It is true that one of these facilities was what I visited last year in the United States, if I remember correctly, it was White & Case. The other one was contacted by an Estonian person in London named Ragnar Meitern, and the third one was contacted, I think, by my advisor Kersti Kracht, if I recall now. But I'll tell you again, there were more than three companies. We have already done the first so-called contacting for the sole purpose of asking whether they are interested in concluding such an agreement with the Estonian state and explaining what task we are giving them. So this preliminary work, of course, was done before we made the final choice and when additional background checks were carried out. There were more companies that were contacted.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U94	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! On the one hand, you are trying to convince Parliament that everything is very clear, transparent and honestly organised. But if I listen to these questions and answers, unfortunately there is nothing to say, but there is clearly the impression that the Minister's personal interest has overruled transparent and honest action by the authorities that would help to protect the interests of the state. And the color is added by the fact that you have also taken a derogatory view of the work of the committees that have invited you here. In order to confirm what you said in essence, it would have been extremely necessary for you to have acted openly and quickly and also to respond to the conclusions or signals made by the Commission in relation to what is happening in Estonia when taxpayers' money is being used. And in my opinion, the comparison with the Tallinn Water Case is not very adequate. It is not sufficient because the respective institutions in Estonia have pointed out that this case is win-win on the one hand and the consumer may be paid more. Contrary to this case, where the authorities pointed out that the conclusion of a contract with this law firm or, specifically, Freeh, as has been the case here, is problematic. Why did you go this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U96	In any dispute, in any legal dispute, the result is basically always fifty: sixty, as Matti Nykänen said, whether you win or not. You can only make some kind of prediction, and that's what you have to do, there's no point in wasting money in hopeless things. But basically, any legal dispute can go like this and it can go like that. Not only do we have a desire and a goal to obtain part of this fine from America when these fines are imposed, but we also have a desire and aim to strengthen judicial cooperation with the Americans. That is what we have done at several levels: the prosecutor's office, the police at various levels, and the Financial Supervision Authority. And we are also trying to strengthen cooperation at political level. All of this is part of this complex. The reason I gave the example of Tallinn Water is simply to show how two-faced you are, how hopelessly two-faced you are. The EUR 4 million legal aid agreement was done in the Ministry of Justice in such a way that the government did not even discuss it properly. There were no huge debates about whether or not to hold a contract and who could sign a contract with what authority. They just did it, that's all. We are now investigating money laundering or promoting cooperation on money laundering issues, and suddenly every detail needs to be examined and everything that has been done will be taken into consideration. The question is: what is its motivation? What's the matter with you? What are you afraid of? Why do you want to investigate money laundering, not investigate money laundering? Well, time will tell, as they say. In what I have said about the committees, I will stick to the fact that, firstly, there have been no meetings in the committees on the matter you are talking about, there have been no meetings in the Commission. There have been headlines here about how the Riigikogu adopted or the Riigikogu found so and so. The Riigikogu has not found anything on this subject yet! Even the committees have found nothing. Nothing has been voted on in the committees, no texts being processed, no agendas passed, no minutes. There have been no meetings of the Commission. There were two meetings, two joint meetings, where nothing was decided. And then they go around explaining how I haven't done it in Riigikogu committees and they have. That's not true. Neither is true.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U97	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U98	It's so late that we have to consider having two minutes for the hall call. Therefore, Mr Sutt, please put your question very briefly, and Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will ask for a brief answer. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U99	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! I think today's Question Time has shown very clearly the attitude of the Government and, in particular, the Minister of Finance, Helme, with regard to the Riigikogu and parliamentary supervision. The Minister of Finance lied in this room today when he claimed he hadn't received any invitations. The Minister of Finance has failed to appear on five occasions at meetings of the Special Committee on Corruption, Aidu wind farm issues and the Freeh Agreement. The Minister has been invited to come at his own time; the Minister has not found the time. The Minister has deliberately and intentionally misled the exercise of parliamentary supervision, he has prevented it, he has violated the law. Prime Minister, when will your Minister of Finance stop breaking the law and appear before the Special Anti-Corruption Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U100	Thank you. I will stick to the answer I said to the Minister for Finance in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. His reply, which he gave to the head of the special committee, had a desire to go to the committee, but the head of the special committee replied to him that if the minister did not come immediately, but in a week's time, it would no longer be necessary. I don't think that makes any sense. I also stick to the principle that, of course, members of the government have accountability to the Riigikogu and they also attend committees. But I will also stick to the fact that Freeh is a very skilful political argument and malakas, which currently takes the focus away from the main topic of the fight against money laundering. And I will also stick to the fact that as long as I am in the government of the Republic of Estonia, we are dealing with the anti-money laundering issue very essentially and very seriously on a daily and weekly basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U101	Thank you. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to thank the members of the government for their response. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U102	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Riigikogu, we will start the IV session of the Parliament's plenary session on Wednesday 1st working week. To begin with, members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to hand over drafts and questions. Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U103	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft decision of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, proposes to the Government of the Republic that Estonia's initial and school education be organised in a uniform and Estonian language that ensures the coherence of society and ensures, regardless of the mother tongue of young people, their competitiveness and equal access to education and the labour market. The state, in cooperation with the local government, ensures that young people with another mother tongue can learn their native language and culture. The transition to uniform early childhood education has been organised by 2024, which is a prerequisite for the transition to a single Estonian-language school education by 2030. The Reform Party Group has already come up with similar proposals three times. I recall that the transition to education in Estonian was also important in the election promises of Isamaa, EKRE and Estonia 200. The next year will be 30 years after the Republic of Estonia regained independence. In June 1993, the Riigikogu passed the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, with the aim that by 2000 there will be a uniform and Estonian-language upper secondary school in Estonia. Today, 20 years later, the target is only partially met. We propose that, as a first step, early childhood education be transferred to a single Estonian language by 2024, as experience from different countries and many studies show that language learning is most effective in kindergartens where language is acquired in a short time when playing. This would be followed as a logical step by the transition to full Estonian general education by 2030. Ladies and gentlemen, Estonian society is ready for a common Estonian education organisation. The political will and decision of the Riigikogu are needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U104	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to transfer drafts and enquiries. I have adopted a draft decision on behalf of the Bureau. The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes this in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U105	89 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 12.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U106	Let's go to the items on today's agenda. Today we have two items on the agenda. The first item is the first reading of draft 211 of the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Government of the Republic 'Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international duties of the Estonian State in the operation of the International Maritime Security Coalition Sentinel'. I'm requesting Secretary of Defense Jüri Luige as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U107	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Allow me, too, to first wish you a good start and strength of the season. We have presented a draft decision to the Riigikogu, which provides for our participation in an international operation called the Sentinel. We are talking about a naval operation launched by the United States, and the US Secretary of Defense and the British Minister of Defence have proposed that we take part in this operation. It's a fleet operation that mostly takes place in the Strait of Hormuz. This operation acts as a so-called 'will coalition' and does not specifically seek a UN Security Council resolution for its action under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. We have made participation in this operation a precondition for the diplomatic agreement between Estonia and Bahrain, which would give our officers diplomatic immunity there. At the moment, partly because of COVID, this agreement has not yet been finalised. Of course, we will not go there until this agreement is concluded. If you ask what this practically means now, it means that this fleet mission has a command post in Bahrain. We are sending in an officer for whom this is undoubtedly a great opportunity to receive training under such a massive military operation, but at the same time, I hope it is also an opportunity to contribute. All expenditure shall be covered by the budget of the Ministry of Defence. I'm done with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U108	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U109	Thank you. Good Secretary of Defense! Do you think that such operations and other forms of international cooperation with our allied countries could be at risk or at risk if, for example, the defence budget should be cut next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U110	Thank you. You are, of course, offering me a phenomenal opportunity. To be frank, the operation we are sending an officer to is not likely to be compromised even in the case of a budget cut. But, of course, when the budget is cut, we have to look everywhere in the Ministry of Defence's administration, it is not excluded that international operations will also have to go.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U111	Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! You said our naval officer would be trained in this operation. I'm saying you can't send an untrained person into this operation. I'm sure he'll get some experience that we'll later use to develop our navy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U113	You're right, of course. That was my childish linguae. Of course, we're sending in an officer who's also capable of operating a fleet operation. Clearly, he gets experience there, not training.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U114	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U115	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! A good colleague, Erkki Keldo, has already asked a similar question, but your answer made me press the button again and ask. Indeed, Minister for Finance Martin Helme has said in his speeches that the defence budget must also be reduced. Later, he's corrected himself, as if he realized that he's probably said stupidity. But you said if you were cut. As a minister, do you want to tell us today in Parliament that it has not been definitively decided that the defence budget will not be affected? I thought, according to the speeches I have read and heard in the public media, that this issue is off the table and no one in today's government is going to cut the defence budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U116	I think the honest answer is that the budget negotiations are still ongoing and it is like this golden principle that nothing has been decided as long as everything has not been decided. But, of course, there is no doubt that the defence budget has had superparty significance for a very long time. I hope that this is indeed an issue where all coalition partners finally agree that the defence budget needs to be maintained.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U117	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I would like to ask Andres Metsoja, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed this draft before submitting it to first reading at its meeting on 11 June. This meeting was attended by the author of the draft, Minister of Defence Jüri Luik and other representatives of the Ministry of Defence. Indeed, I do not consider it necessary to go over what has already been said by the Minister. I would just add that, at its meeting on 11 June, the Committee on National Defence proposed that the first reading of the draft be stopped. At the same session, it was also decided by consensus that I would be appointed rapporteur for the Commission, and it was proposed that the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft be set at 5 p.m. on 30 September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U119	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U120	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! As you will remember, this morning at the National Defence Committee meeting, Finance Minister Martin Helme accused the Ministry of Defence of spending unreasonable money and called foreign missions of the Defence Forces, for example, unreasonable prestige projects. Is this mission an unreasonable prestige project?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U121	Thank you. Yeah, unfortunately, it's hard to forget to say it. As chairman of the committee, I did not begin to make that point clear. But it's probably the case that if you go along with this argument that our allies are a prestige project, you could say it's a representation cost, and in bad times, you'd have to cut it off. If we call allied relations, the development of national defence, all the training for prestige, I don't quite understand it. But this is a quote, let him comment on it himself.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U122	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U123	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Did I hear correctly that the Minister for Finance actually said such words in the Commission? When he was attending Question Time before the Riigikogu today, he was very keen to defend the agreement with the law firm from the United States, calling it an even wider mission to make common friends in the fight against money laundering. In this case, when it actually called defence cooperation a reputational project, it also assessed the same money laundering project, which is, in fact, very strange and creates misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U124	Thank you. I don't know how to see the Minister of Finance's head and tie his mind and I don't want to do it. But that's what he said. Allied relations, or our foreign missions, are a prestigious project.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U125	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 211. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5 p.m. on 30 September. The first item is dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U126	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the organisation of local government initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs 212. I request Martin Repinski, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U127	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Local Government Organisation Act deals primarily with the employees of the municipal authorities and their powers in councils. The beginning was that the Chancellor of Justice turned to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court agreed with the Chancellor of Justice that the situation in local governments and councils is not fair because the employees of the local government lose their powers on the council. The Supreme Court proposed that the law be amended so that employees' powers do not end, but are suspended by the time they work in the municipality's institution. We are talking about the authorities. We were also talking about the staff of the administration in the judgment. But the Supreme Court advised the legislator to think about this subject and did not make it compulsory to change it. The Ministry of Finance then addressed the Riigikogu with a proposal to amend the law. As a result, the draft law, which has been discussed several times in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, was born for the first time on 11 May, then on 2 June and then on 9 June, and lastly on Monday 14 September this week. The consensus decision was such that the members of the Commission were invited to close the first reading of the draft and to set a shorter deadline for the submission of amendments, the deadline being 18 September at 16 a.m. This is because according to the Supreme Court's decision, this change must enter into force no later than 17 October of the current year, which is why it must be processed as a matter of urgency. The plan is that today maybe 16 September will be the first reading, in the meantime there will be a second reading and the third reading will be on 30 September. This means that this amendment would have entered into force by 17 October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U128	Thank you. You have questions too. A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U129	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I would like a very specific clarification. In fact, you dealt with the staff of the authorities as a relatively broad concept. Who do you mean? Are they people who work under the Civil Service Act, or do they work under a subcontracting contract, etc.? Would you like to clarify and give some examples, for example, of who and who are the employees of the municipality government and on the basis of which the law applies to the employees and who are not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U130	Thank you for your question. At the moment, the situation is that officials from public authorities working in rural municipalities, for example, as well as employees working on the basis of a contract of employment have been treated equally. For example, the driver of the municipal administration according to the current law, if he works not in the administration, but in the administration, I don't know, in the office, no matter what authority, he loses his authority once and for all. If we adopt the law in the form that it is now, its powers will stop, but the officials will end.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U131	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U132	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, First of all, I say that the regulation of the current law, in my opinion, that the mandate of a council member, both on the basis of an employment contract and as an official, ends, is rather a good solution. Having been the long-term head of the municipality, I have seen all too often that the reason for the application is actually to come to the municipal or municipal office later. There may be a conflict of interest, sitting in two chairs, both in decision-making and in the sense that at some point an official working as a council member is like a leader, or mayor, or mayor's superior, at the next moment subordinate. Maybe there's a problem. But okay, with the current amendment, the'soft version' is chosen, the council member's mandate does not end, but stops when working on the basis of a contract of employment. But why isn't the same relaxation being done to an official who works in the municipality? In my opinion, there is a situation where a person working under an employment contract and working as an official is in an unequal situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U133	Thank you. Yes, I agree that if this change enters into force in this form, the situation will be unequal and it will have to be discussed. For example, when we look at the position of the Government of the Republic, the Government of the Republic supported the amendments, but conditionally supported them. He supported an amendment between first and second readings and a similar amendment for officials to be treated equally between staff and officials.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U134	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question comes from the question of a good colleague. What were the most important arguments, or what led to such a different approach? In addition, there has been talk in the public about the fact that political power can actually put pressure on potential officials and vice versa through so-called application. Secondly, why in this case is it the opinion that a person working on a contract of employment, for example in a rural municipality government, is less influential in a particular conflict of interest than an official?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U136	I think you may have misunderstood a little. Officials are now running out of authority at all. At the moment, they both end, so that it is made more lenient in the case of workers. In the case of officials, on the contrary, they may have more responsibility, and that is why they cannot be [there], but after, for example, when they leave this post, they cannot return to the council, they cannot be members of the council again until the next elections. I also agree that this approach must be equal. But the current change to the problem, when this problem exists somewhere, will rather not solve it. I'd even say he's creating more of these opportunities. If at the moment it is the case that both those workers who work under a contract of employment and officials who are specifically members of the administration must leave at all and no longer be able to return to the council, then there is now a chance that if, for example, employees leave their jobs, they can be members of the council again. So in that sense, I agree that this could be the case in the future. Why it's like that was a question. I reply that this draft had been introduced in this form and is now at first reading and that it is possible and necessary to propose amendments between the first and second readings. I think they will come, and then we will discuss at second reading whether only the workers will remain, as they are now, or whether officials will come down here. I believe that we will also be discussing the managers and staff of the administration in this context.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U137	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U138	Thank you. I understand that there are different opinions in this Chamber, and we have different opinions, which would be the right one. Personally, I wouldn't mind if the driver, being a driver, were also a member of the council. I don't see how his influence is disrupted either way. In fact, each council member must also base its interpretation of the conflict of interest on the fact that, if there is a conflict of interest, it is necessary to reduce itself from taking one decision or another. In this sense, indeed, if people in a higher position can belong to a council, they may have a greater conflict of interest than if we were talking about some councillor in some department that belongs to the council. My question, after this long introduction, is what your own opinion is. I know that we in the Commission have, for a moment, also discussed whether this restriction is even proportionate, because basically nothing will change for a person when it ends or stops. If a driver can't be a driver for four years, it's like he's going back there in four years. How do you feel about yourself? Can you actually think about allowing a person to be on the council and also to work as a driver?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U139	Thank you. It is my opinion that we cannot write specific titles into the law, that, for example, the driver can, that no one else can. But my personal opinion is also that the situation is not fair at the moment. I have seen in particular cases where an official has been elected to the council elections and then has to leave because he is an official, and in six months' time, for example, he leaves his job, goes elsewhere, and his council seat is lost. I believe that this is unfair not only to this person, but also to his constituents. In the case of workers in particular, it stands out when we are talking about the staff of the authorities, but my personal opinion is that this change must also come in the case of officials.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U140	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U141	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! How many days before the application was filed should the official be allowed to become a contract staff member?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U142	Thank you. That's an interesting question. Unfortunately, in the Commission, we have not discussed this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U143	Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U144	Thank you. Yes, I agree with the Commission in that respect. In my opinion, especially when we look at rural areas, there are so-called active people who would like to have a say in the community, at local level, already little, and this right could rather be extended. But I'm simply asking whether the discussion in the committee also came up with this article of the Estonian Express, even today, that it will not be possible to count all those middle party members who are on the payroll of the city of Tallinn or in councils or in other places. Don't you think that's a threat? Did the Commission not discuss whether this would pose a risk if the situation in Tallinn got worse? Was there such a discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U145	Thank you. We did not have such a debate in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U146	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U147	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I understand that this amendment comes from the Commission itself, so that workers and officials on the basis of a contract of employment are treated equally. One question was that. Secondly, I also consider that there is a problem with the heads of the agencies if, at one point in time, the head of the institution is the 'chief' of a municipal or rural municipality elder and subordinate at the next moment, but we want the agencies to be managed professionally, not politically. Should this limit not, however, be extended to the heads of the agencies, in a milder version, so that the councillor's mandate stops rather than ends?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U148	Thank you. On the first question, I say this: who is proposing an amendment is currently difficult to predict. At the moment, the bill is in the form that it was issued. Now we have a first reading, and since this is still a rather interesting change and, as we see it, quite a lot of aspects, I think that these amendments are purely my opinion from the political groups and probably from the Commission. As far as the issue of the staff or managers of the administration is concerned, I say this is a two-way matter. I also have experience in local government. I know sometimes it feels like it's not normal. I'll give you an example. The headmaster will vote for or against distrust of the municipality's parent or mayor, and then the mayor or mayor will have to decide how high the salary of the school director is, etc. This is one of the simplest examples. But let's see from the other side. For example, I read a lot. There's a newspaper like the North Coast in Ida-Viru County. I've read it a lot. There they write such things as that they should involve more local people. At the same time, they complained to the Police and Border Guard Board, for example, that there would not be much tolerance if people who work in this structure were to apply for more motivation and motivation for those who are involved in state structures. Similarly, when we look at who the managers are, for example, at sports schools or simply at schools and kindergartens, they are generally active people who have, I believe, often have their own opinion. They're supposed to be active social figures, that's what's good. If we eliminate the possibility that they could be council members, then the parish or the city could lose quite a bit. Ultimately, we can be in a situation where we only have alternate members on councils with marginal votes, and those people that people actually voted for, whom they wanted to see in the council, let's just say, there aren't. I think it's kind of a two-way thing, like I said at the beginning. You have to argue about it, you have to discuss it. I believe that this decision, which will take place in the Riigikogu by the end of September, if everything goes well, is the right decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U149	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U150	Thank you. Dear waitress, The Act amending the Local Government Organisation Act has actually been initiated by the decision of the Spring Supreme Court. It's well explained in this bill. One sentence also states that this amendment to the law will have an impact on the organisation of the local government, but nothing much more precise. You mentioned that you are also involved in municipal and local life. What feedback or information have you received about this bill, even from your district?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U151	Thank you for your question. This feedback I have received has been very versatile. As I said, it is not just my opinion, that is what people who are involved in this system say. Some believe that these people must not be left out when we are talking about those administrations that are currently not directly covered by this draft. But I think it is right that I say this because the Supreme Court's decision has briefly addressed it, the Riigikogu has been advised to think about it. There are, as I said, opinions that are wall-to-wall, let's say so. Some people think that this possibility must be limited, that if you work as a janitor in a kindergarten somewhere, you can't be a council member because there's a conflict of interest. Others believe, on the contrary, that everyone could be [the council], including officials. So there's a lot of opinions. Let's see what the Riigikogu decides.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U152	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U153	Good manager! Good waitress! I've been in the work of the parish and I've been in the council since 1989. I would now put myself in the role of a parish elder: after the council elections, half of the council members would be the ones who would for a moment suspend the status of a council member and work as my subordinates and can tell me every day that if you don't raise my salary or do that or the other or the third, I will go to the council and vote you down. There is no argument against the Supreme Court, but I would certainly ask you in the Commission to discuss very seriously what this final solution should be. I do not know how many people were in contact with local governments and how many people have worked in local governments or been on councils. This situation arises, I believe that very few people want to deal with the administration of the parish after the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U154	Thank you. This is, once again, a very interesting aspect of this bill, but I think we will certainly discuss it again and again in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But what's important? I think that this is the same danger and the same conflict may arise, and the head of the administration may likewise go to the mayor and say exactly the same words that you have just said.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U155	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U156	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I remembered one dilemma from your answer: if the head of the institution distrusts the mayor and, next thing you know, the mayor has to determine his salary that this is a difficult situation. Did I hear correctly that this is a difficult situation for you? In fact, there's nothing complicated, these jobs need to be separated and kept adequate in this sense, rather than being overheated by political emotions? Or?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U157	Thank you. It is not a difficult situation for me, it is not now and has never been. But purely theoretically, since I've been very closely involved in this system or this whole thing, I know that opportunities can arise. When I was a parish elder, the council had, for example, the headmaster who was in the coalition and was the headmaster who was in opposition. In my opinion, there was very good cooperation in one way or the other. So in this sense, of course, everything depends on how professional this manager is and how professional the managers of the institutions managed are. But I see here the danger that, theoretically, such a risk may materialise in the local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U158	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U159	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You were inaccurate in one of the previous answers, saying that it was as if the kindergarten janitor could not apply. At the same time, we know that teachers and headmasters and everyone else can apply. But now, coming to this assessment that very many officials have their own opinion, and given the fact that opinion is sacred, and if they also have a desire to publish it, maybe we should consider the possibility that, just as we have set up a youth council for councils, we could create a shadow council for officials and contract staff, too. This is still an inclusive democracy. Is that conceivable?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U160	Thank you. Firstly, I was not inaccurate, I said that if I had been asked a question about the opinions or feedback that I have heard about this initiative, then I said that some people think that even the janitor of a subsidiary or administration, for example, should not run at all or the council should not be a person who receives a salary from the municipal wallet, say so. Secondly, as far as the proposal is concerned, I think that all the proposals made by honourable members of the Riigikogu deserve to be discussed at least, and what decision will ultimately be taken, we do not know. But thank you for the offer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U161	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U162	Good manager! Good waitress! I listened to the opinions of my colleagues here. It was said that a janitor or an official could come to the parish leader, all this Aivar Koka's so-called dilemma and your own experience that opinions are wall-to-wall, and you said that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs could still discuss these matters. But the law must come into force, I'll read here on October 17th. It's a month, and today's the first reading. How can this be, or should we not pay attention to this deadline, what is in this document?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U163	There is certainly a need to pay attention to the deadline, and I think that we will be on schedule and that this amendment will enter into force by 17 October. However, as far as the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is concerned, we have actually discussed this draft quite a bit. Since there are a lot of opinions, I just don't know what the outcome is. But it has been discussed several times, as I said. This has been discussed at least four times in the Commission. I remember that the discussions have been very heated. I think it is good that when the time comes to press, the members of the committee, members of the Riigikogu, are motivated to reach a decision more quickly. I believe that this time is quite enough to make good decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U164	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U165	Thank you. My question still concerns the same subject: who can and cannot? If I have understood correctly, the Supreme Court specifically referred to the principle of equal treatment when it made such a decision. It is not clear to me that if the court and the Chancellor of Justice wanted us to bring the law on the organisation of local government into line with the Constitution, why we still disregard the principle of equal treatment and continue to allow the managers of the institutions under administration to sit at the same time as the council and run their own institution, but officials, municipal officials, other employees, we will now leave this janitor alone, for all people working on different employment contracts we will suspend the mandate once they have received a mandate from the people. It seems to me that we are still not resolving the inconsistency of the proposed proposal with the Constitution. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U166	The Supreme Court's judgment briefly dealt with this, but there has been no decision here, it is not mandatory, let's just say, it's just a suggestion. I can quote: 'The conflict between the mandate and the interests of the workplace and the public and private interests can arise not only from the employees of the local authority but also from the administration. " The court says that in theory such a conflict could arise. Of course, that is what we are taking into account, that is what we are discussing in the Commission, and I believe that we are also discussing this in this Chamber. Again, as I have already said, on the one hand, this risk exists, but I still think that people in Estonia are reasonable and the leaders of local governments are reasonable. I sincerely believe that, and I believe that we cannot regulate everything so precisely. In the end, when people have received votes and they are connected to the municipality, if, for example, they are involved in public procurement in local governments, they are building roads, I don't know, we are taking something smaller, yes, they are doing repairs somewhere in school, for example, and if their company makes a bid, then in the end, they can also do so, so they shouldn't be there either, because there is a theoretical conflict of interest. Yes, there is an instrument and there are opportunities to regulate it. It can always be said that I am not taking part in the debate on this issue, that I am not voting on it, and that is what is happening. Yes, there are general acts, such as a budget for which voting is permitted, even if there could theoretically be some kind of conflict of interest. But in other matters, just all people must be reasonable and the parish or city secretary must monitor it, must draw the councillor's attention to the fact that there is a place of conflict. But the kind of thing Mr. Aivar Kokk was talking about right now, as if an officer could come to the mayor's office and say that if you don't raise my salary, I'm voting for your mistrust, it's a pure criminal matter and a violation of the law, and you can go to jail for that. I think it is already regulated and I do not want to over-regulate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U167	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U168	Thank you. You just said that all people have to be reasonable. I won't argue with that. But Estonia's municipalities are united by an organisation such as the Association of Cities and Municipalities. It would be interesting to know what opinion they have on this draft, whether it has been asked at all and, if not, why, and whether you intend to ask for their position.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U169	I don't have any information on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U170	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U171	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress, my question is whether the Chancellor of Justice's assessment exists and whether you discussed in the Commission what his position is. When I understood [right], you replied to Mr Vilja that there is no real need to over-regulate. Then you could not regulate at all because there are other laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U172	Yes, I have the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice, we have discussed this in committee. The opinion of the Chancellor of Justice was that we must treat both officials and employees equally. It's not in this bill right now. But I believe that such a proposal will be made and, at second reading, members of the Riigikogu will be able to vote on whether or not it will remain that way. Let's see.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-16_U173	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 212. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 18 September at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda is over. The sitting is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow.
