ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U1	Good morning, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. We will start the 5th working week Thursday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, there is the possibility of transferring drafts and enquiries. There doesn't seem to be any desire to hand over anything. Then the presence check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U2	Members of the Riigikogu 76 and missing 25. We can begin to deal with the items on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U3	The first item is the key national question "How to Live With Coronavir" initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. discussion. [[In the diner.]] Quiet is much better. I will explain how we will deal with this first item. According to § 153 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, the Board of the Riigikogu, on a proposal from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, determined the important national question "How to Live With Coronavir?" to discuss the following procedure. First, the presentation by Kaja Kallas, President of the Reform Party Group, will be up to 20 minutes and the questions and answers will be up to 20 minutes. Then Irja Lutsari, Professor of Medical Microbiology and Virology at the University of Tartu, presented for up to 20 minutes as well as questions and answers for up to 20 minutes. Then Felix Mägus, leader of Tallinn Nordic Hotel Forum, gave a presentation for up to 20 minutes, as well as questions and answers for up to 20 minutes. And then the presentation of Edward Laane, board member of Kuressaare Hospital Foundation, for up to 20 minutes and questions and answers for up to 20 minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu may submit up to two questions to the rapporteurs. After the presentations and questions have been answered, negotiations will be opened. Speakers may be members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups. At the request of the initiating party, the Reform Party Group, I propose that the Riigikogu first speak with the representatives of the political groups. The Riigikogu will not take a decision to close the discussion. If that's okay, let's start with point one. I would like to ask Kaja Kallas, Chairman of the Estonian Reform Party Group, as the first rapporteur here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Besides the self-inflicted government crisis, there are also real problems in the world, including in Estonia. And they're the ones we're facing, so that's what we need to talk about. Estonia and the whole world continue to wrestle with coronavir. This virus has placed a strong seal on this year, and we will certainly have to face the virus next year. Despite the enormous resources being devoted to the research of the virus, we do not yet have confidence in the completion of the vaccine today, nor do we know whether and how the virus can transform and how many waves it has. Maybe COVID-19 isn't going anywhere, and we just have to learn to live with it. Hand disinfection, wearing masks, avoiding crowded places and self-isolation are phenomena with which we must be ready to live for a long time. This virus is here among us, our people continue to get sick and need treatment. Different restrictions and requirements have been imposed in the world to limit the spread of the virus. Estonia's restrictions have been quite small compared to the rest of the world. We know that closing society to prevent the spread of COVID-19 is a cost. Along with the sick we see, there are also invisible victims that we do not see, and that is why we do not feel sorry for them. But more and more it turns out that there are all these invisible victims. The first thing that suffers is the mental health of people. According to a study carried out in Britain, the number of people suffering from depression increased by a total of two when society shuts down. But examples of mental health problems do not really need to be sought from this distance. Chief executive of the nonprofit association, clinical psychologist Anna-Kaisa Oidermaa says that suicides are twice as many as the death of the corona. The Korona has forced people into isolation, boosted family problems. People are worried about their jobs. More alcohol use has taken place. According to Oidermaa, you can clearly see how problems accumulate in man until the last moment is at hand. A lot of people were left alone, very few human contacts. Children and young people have been hit the most. Karmen Maikalu, head of the School Psychologists' Association, says that children have increased anxiety and self - injury, fear of their parents'loss of employment. Domestic violence also increased during the Coronary period and has an impact on children's mental health. In the past, when a child was able to rest while attending school in some ways from home, when the schools were busy, it was not possible to do so. That brings me to the next point. We should avoid closing schools at all costs, because the closure of schools leads not only to educational gaps but also to social divisions. The Economist magazine wrote that children learn less than they are at home in any case, and they lose their learning skills. When you're in school, the conditions are better. In addition, children from poorer economic circumstances also have lower opportunities to participate in teaching. Older parents and, unfortunately, mothers in particular cannot go to work because they must devote themselves to helping their children in their schoolwork and cooking three meals a day. But losing education also has an economic effect. The World Bank estimates that five months of school closure will lead to a wage reduction of nearly USD 10 trillion (in today's currency) in the future for these children, equivalent to 7% of the world's annual gross domestic product. Diseducation is also the fastest way to poverty. So we should do everything we can to keep the schools open. If necessary, teachers at risk must be protected, but children must be able to attend school. We can also see the cost of the Coronary Crisis in the economy. Fortunately, the recession has not been as great as it was thought at the beginning. However, this recession has not clearly hit the whole economy evenly. The tourism sector has been hit the most, and it is not certain to what extent and whether travel will be restored at all. Looking primarily at ghostly empty hotels in Tallinn, we realise that this also means the loss of jobs for a large number of people and, as a result, greater tensions in families, greater anxiety for children. If, so far, all governments have fought to get Estonia to fly and fly here, then the current government has started to ban air connections, making the corona crisis a pretext, but not based on scientists' assessments. If people don't get here, it'll mean a bigger blow to the tourism sector. It is quite clear that it will take a long time for travel and tourism to recover. On the one hand, it is clear that the sector itself must adapt to the corona, and I believe that companies in this area will do their best. But on the other hand, no one wants tourism and the other business involved to fall into such a deep crisis that recovery from it is slow and arduous. Our economy is small and fragmented, so we must maintain every sector of the economy. In order to launch the discussion, I would like to offer you a few thoughts. Perhaps we should propose re-launch grants and labour tax reductions for tourism operators at a time when travel will be possible again. What else can we do because it means work for many people? The wider economic situation has also been made more difficult by prohibiting additional labour. The pretext for this was the corona crisis, but it did not really have any substantive reasons. For example, during the summer, experts suggested that health risks should be taken into account when finding seasonal workers, especially strawberry and other berry farmers, were difficult times in agriculture. And at that time, for example, the health figures in Ukraine were better than those in Estonia, but the government, together with its Minister for Rural Affairs, bullied it and prevented the additional labour force from coming to Estonia under control. Thus, there was a self-inflicted crisis in agriculture, where, for example, strawberry growers still suffered considerable losses. This crisis was not related to the corona; it was self-inflicted and completely unnecessary. If you are trying to get something positive out of this crisis, it is likely that the new reality of work has arrived more quickly. It has been said for a long time that people no longer work the way they did in the past or that the rules of employment contracts or labour laws are laid down. A study carried out by the global law firm Eversheds Sutherland revealed that more than half of the companies found that the productivity of the company actually increased under the conditions of distance work caused by the pandemic. While this had no impact on productivity in some areas, productivity increased in many areas. More than half of businesses have been or will continue to extend teleworking opportunities. People like to work remotely right where they are. Moisés Naim, in his book The End of the Tribe, has written that our developments in the present world are actually based on three aspects. One is that we have everything more than ever. Secondly, all things, people, services can very easily move to any point in the world. And thirdly, it has changed our perceptions, our aspirations, our desires. We also want everything more than ever, exactly where we are. And people like to work where they are. Of course, it may also have a dark side, namely that people at home simply work more. And since you can't go anywhere, you can't take vacations and you can get people overloaded. In any case, however, teleworking has become a new reality that should be accompanied by laws. The current Employment Contracts Act is very much based on the fact that the employee works under the control of the so-called employer, in the presence of the employer for a certain number of hours. But it's not like that anymore. Most jobs do not require daily attendance. But it's gonna bring new risks again. What are the risks that require hedging? Do workers need additional protection? There are a number of points for discussion here. As has been said, the corona virus is not a crisis in Estonia; it is a global crisis. I believe that the biggest contribution to the fact that Estonia has done relatively well has been made by the people of Estonia who behave sensibly. However, our doctors, virologists, and health professionals also deserve to be thanked. At the beginning of the corona crisis, the government also took a worthwhile step, but then it was lost hopelessly. Ministers posing and prided themselves on social media instead of managing the crisis, and so several classes of coronal training were left unspeakable. And I hope that, during today's debate, we will be able, first and foremost, to interpret these lessons through the mouth of experts in order to do better next time. As the autumn came, the disease of the corona virus increased as expected. Unfortunately, the government was not prepared for this. There was school chaos, chaos of air connections, chaos of border crossings, mask loss, quarantine loss, etc. The Reform Party has previously proposed the setting up of a panel of experts for the analysis of spring chorona lessons. We also proposed the development of common codes of conduct in order to facilitate the organisation of teaching in our schools. The government, of course, did not listen to the opposition's proposals. It is therefore only possible that we are discussing the issues that affect our everyday life so much here in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. Good performers! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! In politics, bullying of sexual minorities has become a key issue at the moment in the conduct of a raging group. I'm really sorry about that. We shouldn't be dealing with fictional problems. The real problem for us and the world is to mitigate the effects of the coronavirus and learn to live with it at least until the vaccine arrives. But even then, it may not help everyone, because it will only be possible for full protection when almost 90% of people have been vaccinated, and it will still take a very long time. The Estonian people want to hear what these rational solutions, requirements, restrictions to control the COVID-19 virus are. What limitations are most effective, and what are too burdensome for society? We want to know what kind of information is factual and what kind of political mistrust. The more clarity, the more facts, the more thought, the better we can handle the virus. Whether it is the way in which society is organized, whether it is the way in which it is treated, or whether it is our economy. Politicians are not virologists or omnipresentists. That is why today we have three experts in the field. Let us please think openly and listen carefully to today's performers. I'm convinced they have a lot to say. I would like to thank all the speakers in advance and also to wish everyone a meaningful debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U5	Thank you very much, dear waitress. You have questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U6	Good manager! Good waitress, thank you for your interesting presentation. Of course, every crisis has its consequences, including depression and suicidal thoughts and other things. By the way, the coronal age also falls because men were the first victims of domestic violence. Six out of nine lost their lives in the first half of the year, which is a very steep increase. But you were talking about how these depressions are affected, and you were referring to the book End of Tribe. My question to you, good Kaja, is: will being in opposition also cause great depression, suicidal thoughts, the realisation of plans to leave the party and the Riigikogu? As a nonvirologist, give me some idea of what this picture is like on the opposition side.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U7	Thank you for your question. First of all, I have to adjust. I quoted the book 'End of the League' in terms of how society in general has changed in the digital age. This has nothing to do with the current corona crisis, but with the earlier [time]. What I wanted to say is that these steps, for example, in the new reality of work, have already happened before. The Coronian crisis simply gave it a greater impetus to people working differently, to act differently than they did in the past. Now, coming to this question, I am by nature a very optimistic person, so don't worry about me. You'll have a chance to enjoy opposition life, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U8	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U9	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Good Echo! Your presentation had a strong emphasis on the mental health problems of children and young people, which are one of the consequences of the corona crisis and which can certainly not be dealt with in a short-term way. Are there any programs today, here and now that the government is planning to do to ensure that children and young people receive timely professional help in their mental problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U10	Thank you. We only had a state budget debate here on Monday. There are a great many people in our own ranks who are working on this subject, Liina Kersna, Signe Riisalo, and in fact we also have proposals for increasing the percentage of mental health care in the state budget. If I remember correctly, the Minister of Finance from this remote was basically in agreement with that. Perhaps I very much hope that, although there are no such steps in the current budget, if we make these amendments, we will also receive the support of others, because it is indeed very important [the subject]. At least the Minister of Finance was moderately optimistic on this issue in my opinion. But surely we have to take this very seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U11	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I will not ask you what you would have done differently if you had been Prime Minister. Because today's knowledge, which we now have, certainly has quite a number of steps that you would have taken differently. In addition to what you said, if, for example, you were the Prime Minister now, what would be done differently in the current situation when we already know so much about the corona? How do you behave? In addition, you pointed out that schools should definitely not be closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U13	As I said, no politician is really a virologist or a scientist. And I think it is very important to make science-based decisions. We have experts to do this, and these experts need to be listened to. However, it is certainly not necessary to use the corona crisis to bully its policy by making decisions that are not linked to the restriction of the spread of this disease or to the eradication of its consequences, but are purely linked to its political ambitions. I think it's gonna get us into a mess. The most important thing, however, is a knowledge-based approach and listening to experts in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U14	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Very esteemed waitress, sincerely thank you for your very constructive presentation. I can never fail to mention one important problem, which I consider to be underestimated in relation to this crisis in COVID. I am based here on a British study that showed that during lockdown, the number of people exposed to depression increased twice. It used to be one in ten British problems, but during the COVID, it was one in five British problems. So, in my opinion, this is one phenomenon that has been significantly underestimated. On the contrary, I'm asking you, as Prime Minister, how would you feel about a total lockdown? Is this the solution, whether it makes sense or not? On the one hand, yes, it is the most effective method of combating the virus, but these so-called invisible victims, their problem, I believe, is significantly underestimated.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U16	Thank you for that question. As I said at the beginning of my story, indeed, these invisible victims, to whom we cannot seem to sympathise, because we do not see them immediately, but there are many. Of course we're smarter today than we were in the spring. Therefore, today we are prepared to make, I think, more prudent decisions than in the spring, when we were all faced with a whole new situation and did not know how to act. But this mental health problem, all the concerns that come with the fact that people cannot socially communicate, people's loneliness is increasing, anxiety is increasing, mental health problems are increasing, these are things that need to be dealt with at different levels. One is the level of young people and children, the little things we can do. For example, there would be school psychologists in all Estonian schools who would notice the problems of children and who would help their children. In fact, the same law on psychiatric assistance so that children can turn to experts with their concerns, I think it is very important. When we talk about grown-up people, it is also very important to me what each of us can do. I myself completed the mental health first aid training organised by the non-profit association Peaasi. This is precisely to notice the mental health concerns of the people around us, how we can provide the first help we can do to notice and guide and provide help. I think that's one thing too. And when you ask me how to act as Prime Minister or government, I think we should not only focus on these visible victims, or the sick, but look at this picture of society as a whole. This same tourism sector, at the end of the day, will ban flights help if, in fact, we completely unreasonablely restrict access to this area and make the existing problems even worse? So these thoughts are definitely here, yes. But I agree that this mental health concern is a growing concern.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U17	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U18	Thank you. Thank you, Kaja, for setting up a good presentation and debate. I am asking in the key to the economy and, in fact, the exit strategy. All countries in the world entered this crisis more or less unprepared. I'm sure we've gotten a lot smarter than spring. I think that, in view of the future, the main question is how good our own strategy, or Estonia, is to get out of the crisis, how we can take advantage of our comparative advantages. How well do you think we've summed up these spring lessons as a country? And how clear do we, as a country, have this goal and direction, how do we emerge from the crisis? What are our strengths, which are our weaknesses, and which should be changed quickly in order for us to be among the successful exiters from the crisis and not among the unsuccessful exiters?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U19	Thank you. Maybe it exists as a secret document somewhere, but in any case we have not seen such a mapping of lessons done. I think you can well ask Edward Laane, for example, who we have here today, and he was in the epicenter of the crisis in Saaremaa, whether these lessons have been collected from different areas. You could decide what went right, what went wrong, what could be done differently another time. Of course, since this is a global crisis, we need to learn not only from home lessons but also from what has been done in the world. After all, there are very different starting points here and, in fact, all countries are in some kind of trouble. Also, the general European exchange of information or general codes of conduct has in no way established what is right to do and how to recover from it. But I think that we should start with home lessons: that worked, that didn't work, that it makes sense to do, that, therefore, next time it will not be wise to do and that will lead to these invisible victims. Just the same school arrangement, keeping the kids out of school. For me, it was a very surprising article on where years ago [experiment]... This was not an experiment, but the Flemish schools in Belgium were left open for two weeks and the Wallon schools closed down and then they looked at what became of these children and how the huge gap arose in that two weeks when some went to school more than others. Now, as a justification or comfort, it can be said that as if all schools in the world, 90% of schools were stuck, or all children are on the same level. But I'm not so sure. So now the codes of conduct are actually very different. Yes, these lessons, I think we should start at home and I do not think it has been done correctly yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U20	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U21	Thank you. I would like to follow up on the subject of schools. There were two issues, you didn't talk about one of them. One touched on what we originally talked about as a great achievement that we learned to teach distance. It must have been a success story on a global scale, but it was accompanied by a great deal of frustration for both parents and students. There were problems in that, too, but, let's say, the money has been paid. Another major problem I saw as a member of one of the school's chambers was that some children simply disappeared from the background of their parents or family during this crisis, and there were no children at all. We don't know what happened to those kids now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U22	Yeah, I also think we're definitely gonna have to deal with these consequences. On the one hand, it can be said about distance learning that if someone was ready for distance learning in the world, it was Estonia. Since we have an e-school, compared to the rest of the world, we actually did it quite smoothly. But I very much agree that, first of all, it did require a tremendous effort, especially from the parents of younger children, to do teaching alongside their work. Most parents are not trained for this, are not prepared for it. They don't have a pedagogical education. In fact, there were quarrels, and the parents and children had a fight. I even saw a friend show me how his child wrote a complaint to his teacher that I was complaining to my tutor that my tutor was evil. Just because we don't really know how to help kids. It's one of the sides of this distance training. But the other half, which now concerns those children who really disappeared. I've been talking to the teachers, too. There are different children. Some were looking very hard for this contact, asked the teacher and were in the picture. But a lot of kids went missing in the first place. Nobody knew what they were doing, where they were, how their level was. I think this is also a lesson that we should map very clearly. How can these children cope now when schools are back on track, what kind of help do they really need? Because, as I referred to in this article by The Economist, it also included these studies that there is nothing to do, in fact children, if they do not go to school, will be left educationally behind and will lose their ability to learn. This must then be further addressed in addition to the study programme. So I think these are also questions that we have to ask very clearly, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U23	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U24	Thank you very much. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your good presentation first. It is important to emphasise here that the crisis is not yet over, but such interim analyses or observations still need to be made here. It has been discussed in this Chamber, but I would like to sum up in general that this crisis is an important lesson for us, giving memory for the next time, whatever form the next crisis could come. And now it is important to be aware of how well society as a whole is ready for the next crisis. And secondly, when the government is ready, for example, to use the potential of its executive apparatus, or at all the potential of society, to solve the crisis. How do you appreciate it if our government, or society at all, is ready for the next crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U25	Thank you. It does seem to us that the government is not really dealing with this crisis, but is working out its relations. This is the picture that's now. The readiness of society is difficult to assess, it is a much wider problem or a much bigger issue. I do not think that this can be said so clearly, because there are very different parts of society, how the health system is ready, how school arrangements are prepared, how businesses are prepared or what businesses and the economic side have to deal with. There is no such common answer. But it seems to me, yes, that, at the level of the executive, we are not dealing with this at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U26	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U27	Thank you very much. And thank you for the presentation, too. Very important things have been highlighted. But one area that concerns me is our medical readiness. And just those supplies. I asked Jaak Aab and Tanel Kiige, and we could all read the answer from which we can see that only one of the nine articles has supplies. Is there a shortage of one fifth, a third, 20%, everywhere there are deficits. We know from the spring lesson that children with phenylketonuria, for example, did not have enough special food supplies. We know that we lacked even the most common medications, called for people not to buy out much at the same time. We've been studying. But the question is, what conclusions have we made by autumn? What's your recommendation to the government to get these supplies and not repeat mistakes?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U28	In order to obtain these supplies and not to repeat the mistakes, it is first necessary to obtain them. This, I think, is the main thing. If it is not dealt with, as if it is simply confirmed to itself that everything is okay, although these answers show us that it is rather not okay, then there can be no solution. I think this is actually the first step on this road. I'm sure we'll keep asking those questions. We will certainly also direct this communication in the Committee on Social Affairs so that these stocks can be replenished. But it must be primarily the will of the government, the financial allocations. That's how it works.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U29	Yoko Alender, one more question for that waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Madam waitress, for raising this issue in this form. How do we assess this "foreview," how do we come back? How are we going to restart our economy when we look at the tourism sector, the service sector, which has been hit hard? Have these measures been well targeted enough? Should we rather look at the 'greater crisis' to deal with it? And maybe a few words about foreign communication. How have we maintained our relations with our neighbours, can we also promote the tourism sector together?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U31	Thank you. That's a good question. We have here a representative of the tourism sector, from whom one can ask, but it seems to me, having also listened to the various operators who have been saying that the tourism sector is not quite united either. As the people of Estonia cannot travel outside, for example, Saaremaa and Pärnu do not really groan under problems, because the Estonian person really does practice tourism, domestic tourism. But the problem is definitely in Tallinn. We'll see for ourselves if we walk here, these big empty hotels, restaurants who have lost all their customers. By this, I would like to say that these aid measures should certainly be targeted. In the tourism sector, too, there are operators who do not need this aid in their current form, who are not so badly hit and who, for example, were rather disturbed by this aid measure because they did not have employees because they were at home with public support. In fact, as a result, there were not enough service providers in Saaremaa, for example, because everyone spent the summer. But now I forgot the second question. Oh, external communication, right. There is certainly no help in foreign communication if we insult the Prime Minister of one country, the government does so, and, with regard to another country, we say that they have also participated in some huge conspiracy, etc. Well, it seems to me that this external communication has gotten many times worse than we've had in the past. We are somehow closing in on this and remaining alone, which is a very dangerous tendency.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U32	Thank you very much. The first report has been held with it and questions have been asked. Now I ask for a second presentation of Professor of Medical Microbiology and Virology, Irja Lutsari, University of Tartu. Similarly report up to 20 minutes, questions up to 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U33	Good morning, everyone! President-in-Office and dear listeners. I may have a little untraditional presentation in the Riigikogu based on slides. But I would like to tell you what the current situation in the world is, let's look at the bigger picture, and also to do some analysis, which are the lessons we can take from this spring. As you can see from this slide, and as the previous speaker has already said, there are no signs of the corona virus disappearing anywhere, no signs of extinction. Here on this picture, the darker the color, the higher the infection the brighter the color, the lower. And it is very clear here that the infection of the highlands is undoubtedly Europe, from North America to the United States of America, South America. And another thing that is quite unusual for infectious diseases in this corona virus: when you look at developing countries, Africa, Asia, there are very bright colors. A whole new situation in infectious diseases, because we all believed here in the West that infectious diseases are not our problem, they are in Africa and Asia, but we are safe here. But the microbes have lived longer in the world than we have, so it didn't prove true. If we now look at what is happening in Europe, where the high points in Europe are now, then here is exactly the same logic: the darker the color, the higher the level of infection. This north-south gradient and the east-west gradient are clearly visible, even though this eastern gradient is disappearing. The Czech Republic is currently the most problematic place in Europe. In the Czech Republic, there were almost 900 people infected yesterday, 35 people infected in Estonia for 100000 in the last two weeks. That's one thing. And another thing, in the Czech Republic, daily mortality rates are also rising. The Czech number was 7 dead yesterday for 100000 in the last two weeks, 0.1 or 0.2 in Estonia. What is perhaps quite positive about us is that if you look at the surroundings of Estonia, there are bright colours around Estonia. So we have also seen that the infection in a particular country depends on what its neighbours have. Although Latvia is experiencing an increase in infection, Finland is increasing, but it has a relatively lower infection than France or the Benelux countries or the Czech Republic. In this picture, Estonia has been infected since the outbreak began. The first case has not been noted, but since the beginning of March. I'm sure you'll notice that there aren't many colors here. There are few colors here that say that the infection is very local. Red is Saaremaa. That's what you saw in the spring. The island of Saaremaa is no longer in the picture. Hall is Tallinn and Harjumaa. It is clear that in Tallinn and Harjumaa, the absolute numbers are higher because Tallinn and Harjumaa are the largest. And if you look here on the right side of your relationship, or on the autumn outbreak, there are two colors: green, which is Ida-Viru County, and gray, which is Tallinn. I think that the current highlight of Estonia is Ida-Virumaa. Tallinn is a great city and 20 cases in Tallinn are not the same as 20 in Ida-Viru County. Perhaps it also stands out that this green and grey color is not getting any smaller, so if some days there are slightly lower rates of infection, that doesn't mean we've missed something or the crisis is over. This picture basically says the same thing. Ida-Virumaa is green here, Tallinn and Harjumaa are blue. Both have fallen, but in Ida-Viru County, infection is undoubtedly high. My main concern is Ida-Virumaa. A lot of questions have been asked about whether we are back in spring. I mean, we're not back in spring. We had a very heavily sub-reported infection in the spring. This is Krista Fischer's Christmas tree. If you're looking at this tree on the left, it's an upside down tree. In fact, no age group has been shown to be less ill than others. I also put this division of the Estonian population in the corner. With coronavir, we should have a picture like this pink-blue one. But the picture I liked the most is the one in the middle, where there was a very small infection in older generations. Young people were infected. We could not maintain this situation, and we are now in this right-hand picture. It's not a very bad situation with old people. And maybe this picture also shows what it was known that when the schools started, the kids in the schools got infected. Kids aren't the ones who aren't infected, but as far as I know, we've probably had one of the kids in the hospital in the spring because of the corona virus. A couple of kids have been corona-positive, but in a hospital for other reasons. So in children, one thing we know about coronavir is that the disease is going easily. That's one thing for sure now. Further, mortality rates here have been shown to affect all-cause mortality in a large number of European countries. Some were hit more than others. Spain is the country most hit. In Estonia, the corona virus never affected all-cause mortality. There were other countries like this. They've already asked about the lessons. I'm going to put here some lessons we have to learn from spring, but as you know, school will last as long as school is over, and this outbreak isn't over, these are the first lessons. They've already asked questions like this. The first lesson is that each country needs to develop its own plan. Methods that work in one country may not work in another. What worked in China did not work in an ageing Europe. What works in New Zealand, which is an island country, does not work in Estonia, which cannot close itself like New Zealand. I don't want to criticize any country. I like the words the president says that every bird has a song. At the same time, it is important to learn from the experiences of other countries. In my opinion, for example, promoting the social distance of Sweden or embracing the social distance of the Swedish people, which probably is not difficult for Estonians, is something to learn from. Or that we talk to people and win people towards us, not force them or forbid them and give them their hands. And one lesson we have all learned from international organisations, at least in this crisis, was two steps behind rather than two steps ahead. They need to be understood. The advice given to Malawi may not be the advice that is for Europe. Again, I do not want to criticise them. Now, the complete closure of the country was lesson number two. I think it was inevitable in the spring. And I want to state my personal position that I am certainly not in favour of the complete closure of the country, but it was inevitable in spring. It was a completely unknown virus. This was the first real pandemic for all of us. There was a very high increase in infection in Western European countries. You remember every night these scary pictures came in. There was a large shortage of defence equipment in Estonia, but also in the world. Full closure took place in most European countries. A great country like England, which, while jumping here and there, they might have had to afford a incomplete closure, but a small country is probably very difficult. And in the end, at the end of March, the forecast models that predicted [potential numbers] came. Again, it wasn't a modeler error, they could only use the data that existed at the time. I'll show you what the situation was supposed to be. If you see such numbers, there must be a vast [strong] nervous system in order not to shut down society. Influential social groups, I have all these e-mails, all of which are still subject to even more stringent restrictions, but I am glad that we were able to avoid this. Fear and panic, of course, come with such a thing. As a hindsight, if it's worth anything at all, I'm saying that overreacting is also bad. We all believed in overreacting in the spring because that is what our Italian colleagues said. They said it was better to overreact than to react downwards. But we saw that closing the planned treatment was probably not the right decision. Now we're smarter than that. The state shut down the planned treatment, but there were other factors. The opening of the planned treatment was perhaps slower than we wanted. And if any of you see a picture like this, look at these red lines, it was a model of a very strong group of modelers. They said if we shut down the country and do whatever we can, we'll one day be in intensive care with 132 corona viruses in third grade intensive care. Our maximum day was 22. So these models... But I said they weren't self-proclaimed enthusiasts, they were very strong modelers. The third lesson is accepting experts. And that's a lesson for everyone. Experts' recommendations in the Scientific Advisory Board are sometimes seen as not always in agreement. But we're arguing and we're coming up with something that's consensual. The experts' opinions change, and I understand that people are asking how the expert doesn't know that yesterday he said that, and today he says that. I've heard a lot of that criticism. But I have to say, in spring, the government did take into account the recommendations of the experts. Maybe it's just this [test question] I personally was also naive, I thought testing might not be very necessary. There were other reasons why we couldn't test widely. It was very correct in the government's position, and so far experts have changed their opinions and more tests are being carried out. But the government's wishes didn't always match the recommendations of the scientific council. There's been a lot of talk about rapid tests here. The recommendation on antibody testing was never a recommendation from the scientific council, but the government wanted it. Direct flights vs. connections. And at the same time, the metrics, such a single number of tracking, are not correct. Experts do not recommend looking at the number 35 or 55 but look at the whole set because we see that death rates in countries with very low levels of infection are very high. My question is, why do you have people dying when you have so little infection? Consequently, little testing is carried out or something else is done differently. And the science council wasn't perfect either. Perhaps the biggest mistake of the scientific council was that at first we did not have very good contact with the Health Board or very good cooperation, even though we always had contact. I'm sure I'll take care of that mistake. And I've also repeatedly said it's a medical science council. We cannot give advice on economics, psychology, social coping, schools or anything like that. When experts are taken, the expert says that it could probably be like this and could be like that. But the government would actually want it to be. The listener wants clear answers. Journalism and communication. All the members of the scientific council had previously given some interviews, but one day we were visible in the press, and it may have been very difficult for the members of the scientific council. I had given almost 300 interviews by then. Once again, journalists wanted answers in black and white and the final truth. And this constant comparison, I sometimes felt like I was in third grade, so why did it get an "A" and you got a "B." Why do we not have the same as in the Czech Republic, why do we not have the same as in Latvia? In all countries, have their own rules. Very much is expected for the country to say exactly who needs to put on the mask, who needs to be at home. And if they come up with clear rules, there's a way to get past them right away. The scientific council has made it very clear that the detention of schools is not prevention of coronavirus, but we have heard from the previous report what is happening here. We must remember that too much attention must not be given to one illness. And [estimations] are too conflicting, some predict the last day, others the bright future. Either one of them probably isn't right. It must be said that the government very strongly supported science. From the beginning, we set such a goal that we make our decisions on the basis of science as much as possible, and we do research in Estonia as much as possible. The University of Tartu [has] done quite a number of studies with the support of the government. Surveillance has given us a great deal of assurance that we do not have a hidden spread. Sero-epidemiological studies that we did in Saaremaa and Tallinn showed us, well, maybe everyone knew it before, but they showed that 1% of the Estonian population, although 6% in Saaremaa, have antibodies. This means that 99% of Estonians are naïve to the corona virus, may become infected. Sewage surveys where no more happens. Haapsalu, for example, is a good example. Sewage showed traces of [virus] in Haapsalu while there were no cases, and then it was a disco festival or whatever. Genotypic research just about to get their results, they're now in progress. Icosagen also received government support, which I'm sure you've read about. ETAg carried out two investigations into the corona virus in a special grant round. And our plan for the future is very much based on the fact that we look at what models show, we cut through the infection chains, and we make metrics based on data. And the final lesson is, as long as possible, we try to make a focused approach, not such a nationwide one. We'll take care of it where it is. If we have a problem at Tallinn School, we will do something there at Tallinn School, leave all the other Estonian schools alone. This strategy, which now seems to be working well, is: test, isolate and trace. That's what the Health Board is up to right now. I really hope it stays that way. We have, as the previous speaker said, no vaccine will be placed on the market until next year. This is what all major [producers] said last week. They said that they would not be able or willing to give their data to regulators before the end of November, which means that we have nothing before next year and we do not know at all what will come from there. The SARS epidemic is not a transnational competition, it is the Olympic Games and other events. We need to be very clear that our medical system can withstand. It is most important that we have every person, whether he has a corona virus, or he has another disease, so that all people receive equal medical care. That should be our main objective. People must be given instructions, not prohibitions and orders. This is my last slide, I think I've been over for a few minutes. Have I gone over?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U34	I'm sure we'll allow you to complete your report.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U35	Yeah, it's the last slide, really, I promise you. As we progress, there could be [the principle] that man should be above all else. SARS is neither in Estonia nor in the world, and most people in Estonia do not have immunity. No vaccine will actually be on the market until next year, and we know nothing. A very big mystery is around vaccines, which is also very peculiar. There is no highly effective drug on the horizon either. We must try to cope with these existing methods. The only one with very good scientific evidence is keeping a distance. It's two meters and we're downloading the Hold app. Everyone knows these rules. Human comprehension and orders. However, it cannot be ruled out that if we have such a Czech situation, I very much hope that we will not have this situation, that stricter restrictions will then have to be made. It cannot now be said that under no circumstances are we going to make stricter limits. The scientific council has always suggested that before work and education and then fun. But at the same time, I very much support the previous speaker that people's mental health must also be considered. These include theatres and concerts, which are relatively safe, unless they sing along. We must discuss how we can make our travels safe. Maybe walking in a warm country or seeing what's happening in the world gives a person a positive emotion. And communication should be balanced. Perhaps the press might sometimes look at whether only negative news is needed every night, sometimes there is something positive to take from this coronari. I'm not saying we just have to be positive. I'm sorry I went over time, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U36	It's okay. Excellent report! Thanks to the waitress! Now there are a lot of questions for you. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable Professor! I agree with the President's conclusion that this was a really great presentation, and sincerely thank you for coming to share your knowledge and experience. What a depressing first slide, of course. It's frustrating because, really, we're used to doing things better in Europe, but this slide shows that, in fact, in Asia and China and Australia, etc., today's picture is much better there. I ask directly: what has Europe done wrong? What have we done wrong? Or is it a bit of a fake picture that looks back on us from Asia? And the second question, I'm taking the opportunity. I'm also a little in the opposite view of this masked belief. Let me give you an example. I was in Spain when there was only a window where there was no quarantine obligation. It was in mid-July, the infection coefficient was some sort of 16-17, and it came to be total, including the street masking duty. They are extremely conscientious to wear a mask. And what's the status today? Today, the rate of infection is 340. Maybe the mask didn't help. Similarly, Belgium, as far as I know, terminated the obligation to wear a mask on the street, with the exception of crowded places, for some reason from 1 October. I'd like a comment on them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U38	Yeah, what have these Asian countries done differently? As I have already said, it is not working in [Europe] to shut down a society like that in Asian countries. And what did China do? Absolutely all the PCR positives were locked up in the gyms and were locked up until they became negative. It is now very well known that PCR positivity can last 70 to 80 days. Imagine being in your cell for 80 days. What kind of European person agrees with this? But in Asian countries, it worked. Australia is completely stuck, they don't even take their people back. There are Australians in Europe, they don't have a job, they're running out of money, but they can't get back home either, because nobody's being taken back. New Zealand has received a great deal of attention by having done well. I'm not quite sure three sick people will have to shut the whole country down. Honestly, I'm not sure about that! I don't think it's that disease. Maybe there are diseases like this. And the other thing is masks. Yeah, there really hasn't been a messier problem if they're masks. There's a lot of things here. Studies, randomized studies are very few, while again modeled studies are numerous. It has also been shown that the virus doesn't contain anything, that the virus is so small, but the mask is holding those spitdrops in which the virus survives. It's kept by the mask, and it's shown. So the scientific council has taken such a common position that masks [are necessary] where a distance cannot be maintained, indoors and in areas where infection is high. Outdoor conditions are unlikely to be necessary. On the other hand, when a person feels that he has to wear a mask, there must be no disrespect for it. A person has to think for himself.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U39	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Professor, Very good report, I must agree with the previous speakers. My question concerns the subject of vaccines. You said there's no point in hoping for a vaccine until next year. We have all read news about the world about how vaccines arrive earlier, and in many ways they are linked to political developments. But in fact, vaccine makers have this development in themselves very complicated because this virus allegedly changes its character and tactics and strategies all the time. Now, if you could reflect a bit, perhaps not by science, but by what is happening in Estonia with the reservation of vaccines and the real possibilities of obtaining them at one point.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U41	I'm looking forward to the vaccine myself, and I can't wait. Last week, all major manufacturers of Moderna, Pfizer and AstraZeneca said that they would not be able to give their work results to regulators before the end of November. The regulators need some time to do that. As far as I know, Estonia has made advance agreements to obtain the AstraZeneca vaccine. Again, all I know is that the vaccine didn't eliminate the virus in monkeys, and there have been [problems] with the AstraZeneca vaccine, there have been two side effects, and now there was one side effect, but I think it was, as you can understand, in the placebo group. So in order to obtain this vaccine, Estonia has signed a preliminary agreement and participated in the joint procurement of the European Union. And the second is a Johnson & Johnson vaccine, which, although currently on the clinical trial break, has only begun in clinical trials. It has been discussed that we should take vaccines with different mechanisms of action so that either Pfizer or Moderna vaccine, which has a completely new mode of action, could probably be taken. In case one of them doesn't work or one of them falls away, or he has some serious side effects, that we have something in our back pocket. These things have been done. And, of course, the great powers of England, for example, have already bought all the vaccines I know. Plans are ready to be vaccinated, but this plan depends to a large extent on what kind of vaccine is coming. If there is a vaccine that only protects against the disease, then of course the risk groups want it. If we have a good vaccine that also protects against the virus, then we need to think very deeply, maybe we should vaccinate young people so they don't spread the disease. There is a lot of such a debate going on here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U42	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U43	Thank you. Thank you very much for this extremely interesting presentation. There's a lot to ask. But I might also ask you about the final part of this report, precisely those vaccines that, due to the lack of time, could not be dealt with very thoroughly. I would say that it is very surprising to have news that even next year [vaccine] could be placed on the market and that by the end of November these candidates will go to the European evaluator. That's surprising. What is even more surprising is that China has started a paid vaccination, EUR 50 per dose, plus a fee for the syringe. And there was news that Pfizer, in the United States, is already opening up these points. What's the last thing you know about the effectiveness of these so-called immediate-market vaccines? Is there any more recent information?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U44	Nothing. There hasn't been any of these mysteries around the development of any vaccine when there are coronal vaccines. Even the side effects I have to read about from the BBC, the journalists will, of course, find out, but not even the pharmaceutical agencies will be informed, and we don't know anything. We conclude, we draw circumstantial conclusions, I don't know if they're right. Pfizer said he started off with 30,000, then he increased the number of subjects to 44000 because he wants to test on more people. Now you've already raised it to 48,000 so you can test at risk groups. But people who have done vaccine studies in their lives know very well that they probably do not have this disease so often that they do not get the number of people who are infected in the placebo group together or that they do not get the number of people who are infected. That's my conclusion. That's what AstraZeneca actually said at a conference that they had to go to new lands, they couldn't [test] in England, they had a plan to do it in England at first, but they couldn't. So you don't know anything. We also see that Pfizer and Moderna vaccines have many side effects, but again, some side effects are acceptable, some are not. Every day I look at it, believe me.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U45	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U46	Thank you. Thank you very much to the waitress for the presentation. Interesting. I'd come to people's behavior. Apparently in the spring we were all less or more panicked or scared, and then it happened how different people happen. Some panicked very much, and it seems to me that they are still overly panicked or overly intimidated; others may have developed, especially towards spring, such a feeling of giving up. How many problems have been caused by such overreacting people, on the one hand those who are overoptimistic, on the other, I mean here primarily in the spring, in the summer and maybe now, and on the other hand people who are panicked? It's probably blocking a little activity, but how do you deal with them?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U47	It was very difficult at first, but every person is studying. I'm telling you, I got blames for not doing this and why they don't lock up the country right now and why everything isn't locked up at home and on the corner of the police. But a person gets used to everything. Now, overpanting people. Why the corona virus is so hard and why we're even talking here is that a person's own body overreacts. Most people are suffering from cough fever, can handle this virus very well, but there are a certain number of people who are, why are they who are, we cannot say, whose organism is overreacting. This virus doesn't have to be killed with such huge mechanisms, so it ends badly. It's exactly the same with people who overreact. It's not just that you're going to tell a person what you're nervous about. This thing isn't working. A person who's scared, he's scared, and he needs to be understood. We must have some mechanisms or some counsellors to help these people. These people are not really to blame, who are afraid of anything they fear. These people do not want to be afraid; they must have [a chance to get help]. Let's say, if you take it at national level, you know, the doctors and whoever the faculty is talking to them, we all have big back rooms, there are a lot of people on the ground with two legs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U48	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U49	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Professor! I would like to congratulate you on the fact that you have been able to remain a very rational and sober expert alongside the government which is already in progress. Because when you talk about communication, in addition to providing information to people who are trustworthy, it is important that this information is also uniform. Unity makes you feel safe. That's why I think it's very important. But since there was competition between the members of the government who said what they were saying and what they were doing, your work was certainly very difficult. In this light, I would like to ask your opinion. Our next waitress is about tourism. Would it be possible to agree very clear common principles between certain regions in such a way that even this multiplier might be higher than the nominal one today, but we will not die out of one sector and we will be able to move safely? There are also direct flights going down there very clearly for me, which should certainly be safer than when flying across different airports.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U50	Yeah, that's the right question. I think we should, too. Maybe my naivety was to some extent, too, when I thought every school was gonna make the right decision, but now we're gonna see what happened. It is probably necessary to develop some rules for the tourism sector on how to travel. Not that it is traveling and the whole story, but how it is possible to travel, whether it is testing, whether it is isolation, how long isolation, whether it is some countries that should not necessarily go. I think it's more dangerous when people start going in their head and making these decisions themselves. Perhaps there should be some guidance on where to travel, not only for the tourism sector, but also for the health of the person himself, that there are countries that have a good medical system, that the infection is not high, and that there are countries where the medical system is poor, that the infection is unclear, etc. Such rules should certainly be developed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U51	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U52	Thank you. Professor Lutsar! I have listened to scientists very carefully, including you since spring, and I do not agree that we did not know in spring. I thought we knew a lot more than we wanted to admit. I, too, wrote in March that this closure was not sustainable either economically or socio-psychologically, that it could only be short-lived and that it would all come back to us. That's what happened. Now, if you put your diplomacy and your academic caution aside a little bit, would you be a little more specific and say what you knew more in the spring than those public confessions, and also what to deny, the government's actions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U53	I agree with you, but we should be a big country. Maybe we're too [small]. In order to do something radically different than the others, you must have a large and strong back room. But, unfortunately, our scientific community is small and our knowledge was scarce. I agree with you, I have personally opposed the detention of the country. However, once again, when we look, such short-term closures have also made some progress in other countries. We'll take Australia. Did you just have to shut the whole country down? But they made some kind of success, even though they're a different country. I think it was a very great achievement in the spring that we did not have more of the country closed down. That's what I fought for with my nails and teeth, and fought the entire science council. But that we would have allowed the country to function perfectly... We actually had a modified Sweden, I didn't want to say it anywhere, but we didn't differ very much from Sweden, except that schools were stuck. And the schools were shut down before anything happened here. We can also see that schools are being shut down now. I don't think the two schools in Nõo had to be shut down when one of the teachers was PCR positive. I don't think so. But, well, what was I gonna say between the lines? Let's try to avoid this whole lockdown as long as possible, and let's not put very low [borders]. I'd probably jump over 50 centimeters, too, but I probably wouldn't compete with the big contestants. So let's not put any very low gauges in front of us, and when that meter gets there, we're gonna act now. Let's see what's behind that meter. That's how much smarter I am. But I guess I didn't answer you like you wanted.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U54	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U55	Thank you! Dear Professor, thank you very much for this presentation today, but especially for the work you have done in sharing science-based messages to both the Social Affairs Committee and, above all, through the media to the people of Estonia. It's been very, very useful. Much has been discussed today, and you also addressed the issue of young people and children in your presentation, but my question comes about the elderly and nursing homes. The complete closure of nursing homes in the spring may have been justified by the fact that everything was new and unknown. More and more people realized that the disease was actually carried into a nursing home by workers, and that it should have been dealt with. While there was an opportunity to open the doors of nursing homes from June 1, a lot of people delayed it during a period where the disease rate was low and people wanted to see loved ones. Indeed, few people died in nursing homes because of the crown virus, but how much did it actually leave, and what did it do to spiritual health and loved ones? And now the lockdown has happened again. A word on nursing homes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U56	Yeah, it's a form of democracy. I myself was also very surprised when there were two or three cases in the Tartu nightclub and some nursing homes, which are already very far from Tartu, were closed. I don't think our parents or grandparents deserve to be alone. My father died at that time, and he did not fully understand why the family now at the end of his life he was 95 years old, so why the family didn't come to his 95th birthday, why he was suddenly left behind. He didn't understand why. That over 90 years he was dealt with and then finally left behind. In this sense, I think that in nursing homes you have to think about how this visit takes place. Let's put on the masks, adjust the separate rooms, arrange it. I've been talking to older people a lot. Older people get up in the hall and say I don't want to be left alone. That shouldn't be done. We shouldn't leave our mothers and grandmothers and grandpas alone in that nursing home. It's inhuman. We need to think about how we can organise this visit. And people listen and follow the rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U57	Thank you, dear waitress. The time for questions is up. I see a lot of people who wanted to ask, but there's nothing to do, so we agreed. And once again, thank you very much, Professor Lutsar!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U58	I'll answer the e-mails.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U59	And now, Felix Mägus, leader of Tallinn Nordic Hotel Forum, please waitress here!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U60	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! The people in the hall! In 2013, the actor Mari-Liis Lill asked this question right here on the floor: "What is wrong with our picture? " I'm asking too. I was invited to discuss a matter of national importance in the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu and it seems to me that I am at a meeting of the Reform Party Group, where a few people from the Social Democratic Party have been accidentally invited. I propose, first of all, that perhaps a bill should be initiated, according to which, at least in the discussion of matters of national importance, the majority of the members of the Riigikogu would be present in the Chamber. But it's probably a democracy, too, that's how it works. My title is marked on the agenda by the head of the Nordic Hotel Forum, but I am actually speaking here on behalf of the entire tourism sector. The tourism industry is quite diverse and broad and consists of different sub-sectors. Many companies in the sector have joined umbrella organisations. You can see the logos below: Estonian Tourist Association, Estonian Hotels and Restaurant Association, Estonian Spaiit, Estonian Conference Bureau, Estonian Rural Tourism NGO. Tourism services do indeed cover a very wide range of spectrum, including international passenger transport. We cannot say that tourism is made up only of large hotels or travel agencies in Tallinn. Tourism is actually Muhu hiking trail, Kuressaare or Pärnu spa, Setu guesthouse etc. It should be recalled, among other things, that tourism is also an important employer for many local authorities. And tourism is certainly not just some kind of entertainment activity, as it sometimes seems, but is still an important industry, which accounts for almost 8% of GDP according to the performances of one record year in 2019. There were around 5000 companies and around 30000 employees in the tourism sector. The World Tourism Council estimated that the number of employees indirectly related to the sector was 75000. We earned almost 2.1 billion euros of export income, accounting for 10% of all Estonian exports and approximately 30% of services exports. Since our internal market is small, about 2/3 of our guests, who bought accommodation services, were foreigners. About one third of these guests used accommodation outside Harjumaa and Tallinn. The sector's direct tax revenue was EUR 181 million. So we can't talk about some little micro-business going on somewhere in the corner. Can't talk because the numbers are actually big. Since our overall background is such that we do not have too much beautiful weather, we do not have tropical islands as well as Muhu, Saaremaa and Hiiumaa, we do not have mountains with snow, it is still surprising that we have so many foreign visitors and that we are able to produce such tourism revenues for the country. This has been achieved through years of hard work, in cooperation with all those working in the sector and working with them, in cooperation with local authorities and the state. It is a long and arduous path, the results of which we have seen and which is disappearing or partly already disappearing today. So where are we today, October 2020? In fact, it can be said that, in essence, the activities of our sector, our industry, are prohibited by law, starting in March, when a state of emergency was declared. During this relatively short period of time, there have, of course, been different periods during which there have been different restrictions and there have also been some reliefs. It has been lived knowing that the crisis is still relatively short. If we have said here that we have been left alone before winter in the cold, then, of course, there have been objections to how in the cold we have helped you. True, there have been some measures that have helped to survive this great shock at first. Short-term measures relating to the whole economy, including the unemployment fund, helped us to keep jobs. Some of the fixed costs were covered by a one-off EAS subsidy, which unfortunately did not help all companies, since the criteria were such that, for example, medium-sized enterprises did not receive anything from this measure. It has also been said that Nordica has received EUR 30 million in aid and a loan to Tallink, but these amounts have helped only a few individual companies and the sector as a whole is still in trouble. It must be said that the measures at the start of the crisis are the only ones that have remained and no aid measures have been taken today for a further period, despite the fact that both the sector's umbrella organisations and the MKM have jointly attempted to develop various measures that could support the sector, as unfortunately these measures have not been supported by the government office. The general justification has been that there is no political will. Let's also talk a little bit about numbers: in what sense are we worse or very poor when the economy generally works? We are very pleased about that. According to the forecast, yesterday I heard some politicians or members of the government say that 5.5% is the projected economic downturn this year. So, in general, it's pretty okay. But if we look at our sector, the decline is disastrous after all: the turnover of tour operators and tourist agencies has fallen by 90%, the turnover of accommodation establishments by 65%, including the turnover of Tallinn accommodation companies by 81%. Foreign visitors are 84% less in Estonia. International conferences have stopped, no cruise tourism. The result is that in the summer it was not possible to earn the funds to survive the coming low season. Not enough, in fact, the sector has been loss-making since the beginning of the year because of its seasonality. The result is also that today the number of unemployed in the sector is approaching 10,000 and, unfortunately, the trend is continuing. Perhaps you can see even better from the graph how great this decrease has been. And if Mrs Kaja Kallas said that it was okay, that domestic tourism was doing well, then you can see the real situation here: even on the best of the month, the turnover of accommodation companies had fallen by 45% in July and the turnover of hotels in Tallinn by 68%. And after Finns' travel was shut down again in August, the downward trend began again. Just because Pärnu or Kuressaare spa are full of people some weekends doesn't mean that domestic tourism is doing well and doesn't need support. The situation as a whole is still, I dare assure you, very, very bad. When we talk about the turnover of travel companies falling, their turnover has fallen by up to 100% in July, April and May and by up to 93% today. This means that money, liquid resources, working capital, businesses simply run out or are already running out. The paradox is there's no more. There is no market, credit institutions do not finance, the conditions of KredEx are not feasible. For some time there was still the possibility of tax deferral by the tax administration, and today it has practically disappeared. The IRS is asking you to tell us when tourism will recover, so we'll give you a reasonable schedule of tax deferrals. But who has this magic mirror, right, to watch when the recovery begins? We have made various proposals on how to save the sector. Unfortunately, as I said, these proposals have largely been rejected. And even those proposals that have been made by the members of the government themselves, such as the same issue of the voucher, of which too much help is not even there. Why would you save the sector in the first place, the question arises. Whatever happens here, die away, don't need you anymore, no one travels, and you can't tell me when the travel starts again. Well, we still have a point of view. There's got to be something. Just as national budget makers have based themselves on the fact that the vaccine is likely to come back next year and economic growth will start to recover, as we, based on the opinion of local and international tourism experts, believe that tourism could start to recover in the second half of next year. It is important to retain some competence so that when recovery begins, this industry can be restarted. It is necessary, among other things, to maintain [competence] because a number of companies have entered into public procurement obligations, which means, for example, that a certain number of IATA licensed employees must be retained. So that's why we need to maintain some kind of critical level. Our estimate is that 15,000 jobs, or half of them, are critical jobs that need to be maintained. It is estimated that at least EUR 45 million will be required for this purpose. According to our calculations, companies would be able to make sure that they themselves pay 30% more of this support. They would then be sustainable and be able to maintain more or less half of the workforce. Whether this [grant] should take the form of an unemployment fund measure or, in combination with the EAS direct aid measure, must be declared by specialists and officials themselves, but this is the amount that this sector needs. As far as we know, the unemployment fund has 20 million euros today that could be used for this. The Unemployment Insurance Board is ready to allocate it to the tourism sector. Both employers, the unemployment fund and the trade union are in favour of this proposal, but once again, the government has not taken a decision. So we're in the dark right now. Another important thing that Professor Lutsar spoke about, which would help keep the sector alive, is that any restrictions on direct flights would be lifted. It turns out that it is more medically appropriate, with less risk of infection. Estonia is one of Europe's most restricted countries. Neither our neighbours in Finland nor Latvia have imposed any such restrictions. And it hampers not only the movement of all of us, but also the survival of companies in the sector. There is also a need to add here that it is very important that cross-border mobility works and that there are certain rules, such as testing where necessary or other clear rules. But in a mess like this, no one dares to travel, nor dares to come to us, nor dares our people to go out. And the big trouble has been communication. If you are told today that you must not engage in economic activity tomorrow or fly the day after tomorrow, but you have sold the tickets and called employees to work, it is completely abnormal. Not only did entrepreneurs initially have to read these messages from the paper. So communication would certainly help businesses to achieve some kind of continuity. One funny thing has to do with the state budget. One very important issue from our point of view is the state's image and marketing activities. The explanatory memorandum to the state budget contains one sub-section called "Defining a competitive tourism environment." It should include tourism marketing, the development of tourism products, various development activities, and tourism research. According to the explanatory memorandum, 63.6% less will be allocated for next year than in 2020. I'm almost done. The amount was almost 41 million in 2020, with EUR 15 million foreseen for next year. At the same time, the budget has a higher target for tourism revenues than last year, which was record year. It seems to me that the figures put into this budget have not been at all deepened. So, in any case, we need at least the same amount of funding to come out of the crisis as was in the budget this year or last year. All countries compete very intensely for tourists when the crisis is coming to an end. We must, in any case, be prepared for competition; competition in this area is very, very high. We confirm that the tourism industry will recover, whether it takes a year or a half. We're all used to traveling, man is a social animal, he wants to communicate with others. We need people who'll be lucky to recover. One famous Estonian film ended with a sentence: "Our relic is freedom. " The relic of the tourism industry is human. So back us up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U61	Thank you, dear waitress. Questions. Tõnis Mölder is the first to be listed, but I can't see him in the hall. Next up is Andres Sutt.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U62	Thank you very much for sending a very good and clear message. The number of people absent from the hall also shows who considers this subject to be important and who does not consider it important. You brought out what needs to be done, and for me, these proposals are very sympathetic. I also very much agree with the comment on the budget that tourism as a sector is not really supported in the draft budget for 2021. Why isn't it done? We have not received an answer to that question. But maybe you'll tell me what the worst-case scenario is. What happens when the tourism industry, as we have it today, is hit so hard that its recovery will be years old?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U63	I dare say the worst-case scenario is that up to 30,000 people will be unemployed. There are a lot of people working easy in the sector, especially in the accommodation and catering sector, with low levels of education and low wages. These people are suffering the most. These people are not being converted into IT specialists, many not even builders. This means a large number of people on the government's payroll for a long time, I am thinking of people with unemployment benefits and minimum living conditions. I think that's the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U64	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U65	Thank you very much. My question was intended for Professor Irja Lutsar, but I will try to rephrase it and present it to you. You said that this summer or spring the government has supported the tourism sector with around EUR 50 million. The Minister of Finance has also constantly told us that it is, and it is supported, that these numbers are quite large and that one could be satisfied. And the Minister of Social Affairs says that, in fact, the tourism sector cannot be supported indefinitely. You yourself pointed out that some EUR 45 million in wage subsidies would be needed. But what could be, say, survival or fixed costs support? How much should this amount ultimately be, what would save the sector? You've brought out April, I think you're hoping the vaccines will be there by then and the world will be back to normal.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U66	I understand very well that the state cannot support and support everyone indefinitely. That's where choices need to be made. It is not wisdom in hindsight, but this wage subsidy at the beginning of the crisis was such universal support granted to all those who could at any rate come up with the reason why their turnover fell. In retrospect, it could be said that it was completely wrong. EUR 250 million were actually simply distributed and to a large extent distributed to those who did not need to be distributed at all. But then there was a period of shock. I cannot give a clear answer to this question, which would help to keep all companies in the sector who would otherwise be sustainable. Today we have calculated that the wage subsidy measure, which would help to keep half the employees on the payroll, should be EUR 45 million. Fixed costs for companies are very high when we talk about accommodation companies and spas. If there's still no revenue, no one can subsidize them in the long term, that's pretty clear. And at the same time, there is no way to rebuild hotels or spas, for example. Why rebuild them? You mean like apartments? Are the apartments missing? The bureaus? There's no shortage of offices either. And who's gonna pay for this investment? So the main concern is that normal life should return to normal as soon as possible. All politicians and rulers in the world should understand that we must live with this virus, we must create opportunities for living, but not consistently impose new restrictions. If this situation continues as such, it cannot be ruled out that, in addition to the tens of thousands of people being unemployed in the sector, there will also be a very, very large number of bankruptcies. All of this is accompanied by all other social problems. It is not either that the entrepreneur is an animal that suffers everything. After all, we are similarly under strong social pressure, and psychological problems are still pushing very strongly at one point.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U67	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, First of all, I would like to clarify the reference made by my colleague, Mr Kallas, to the fact that there are no internal tourism problems. In fact, we had this from the group. When we met representatives of GoSpa, it turned out that the situation in Estonia varies from region to region. When I was looking at Booking, you can see that there will be no [accommodation] for the weekend in Saaremaa and Pärnu, but there will be more or less a reasonable price in Tallinn. The question is whether [this situation] is different and, consequently, whether support measures should be used in a more coherent manner, in a region within Estonia. And perhaps the most critical part of this question is that recently there was a conversation here with one of the people of Võru and there was such a thought that the Estonian person has not been very welcome in the tourism sector of Tallinn since the price of beer on the Town Hall Square and after the higher hotel prices. Could there be such a small place to look in the mirror in the tourism sector in Tallinn? Maybe there's too much on the outside and too little on the inside. And about the support: should it be state support or in any way motivating people to come to visit? Support directly through money or through service?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U69	There were a lot of questions. I don't know where to start. Of course we look in the mirror, we all look in the mirror, and everyone should look in the mirror. But up until now, the state has been a priority to increase export revenues, so there is no way to reproach those companies that have built up their activities to serve foreign tourists. It's not normal for you to complain. I'm afraid so. Estonia is such a small country that domestic tourism is not enough to earn enough income. And it's not gonna help if we spin this 10 million-billion euro right here inside the country. We need to bring in the proceeds, don't we? That's one thing. Now it's different. Many of you have children, little children of school age. It's school break this week. Well, if during school holidays, Kuressaare and Pärnu sanitaries or spas aren't full of people, then when else? When else is there? We have proposed to the Ministry of Education that we dissipate school holidays. In all of Estonia, school break does not have to be the same week. Could be two or three weeks, it would also help to prevent demand from concentrating on one week or one weekend. And as for the fact that the Võru man does not come to Tallinn, what can I say? Well, what's expensive? I don't know, the price per square metre on Town Hall Square is 50 or 100 euros expensive or cheap? And is the price of beer 10 euros cheap or expensive? I wouldn't be discussing this. It's not quite so unique that hotel prices are expensive and all other prices are cheap. It should take a little more time to get into it, not to say that the Estonian does not come to Tallinn because it is expensive.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U70	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, It was really nice this summer. My family and I were able to travel a lot across Estonia. It was so cool. Got places at the hotel. It was wonderful when you sat in a good place to eat and Estonian was spoken next to you, and it was very pleasant for your ears. But at the same time Tallinn was completely empty, I live near here, it was weeping. What would you say as an expert in this area, how to make Tallinn even more attractive among our own Estonians to come here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U72	Well, what can I say? I think Tallinn is very attractive. After all, Tallinn is the heart of Estonia in the sense that it is the capital. There are most different services, there are cultural institutions, etc. If you look at what hotels are doing right now, for example, everyone is doing a huge active campaign to get here. You have just mentioned that the prices of hotels in Tallinn are very good. Three-star hotels start at 20 euros, you can buy a hotel room in Tallinn for a month, starting at 250 euros. And do you think there is a huge demand at these prices? No, it's not! It's good to have 10 rooms sold out for a maximum of one hotel. What we are talking about is that today, in October, 10% of those who have less, who have more. It's just that Estonia is so small. Domestic tourism alone is not enough to meet the needs of the whole sector. It's just not like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U73	There is no third question, as we know. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U74	Thank you. I think it is in itself a good vision that half of the jobs could be maintained for a year or until the next summer. Either way, mankind must calm itself down and learn to live with the virus even if there is no vaccine or treatment. But I would advise you not only to retain half the jobs but also to talk about restrictions. There could be a message to the government and the public, so don't give it up. But I have a question. This crisis is very rare. Which areas could you compete with? By artificially maintaining tourism jobs, wage subsidies for you, what could be the government's counter-opinion? I am now reading the title of Minister Asa [about the article], he says that tourism is no longer receiving anything, tourism is not going to survive this situation. But if you continue this fight, and we will certainly try to support you, what could be the competing areas affected by the crisis in the same way? And why are you in a worse situation? I think you're in a worse situation, but try to formulate it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U75	You have already replied yourself that there is really no other sector or area that has suffered so much. Actually, it's not. Passenger transport, accommodation, tour operators and tourist agencies I do not know of any other sector that would have suffered in this way. But the economy as a whole, you can still say, works. In any case, the tourism sector must be maintained to some extent; these services will continue to be needed in the future. We will continue to sleep in real life, not digitally or virtually. We continue to travel from one place to another, not in a science fictional way, but in airplanes and ships. It's not going anywhere. Of course, theoretically, there is also a possibility that only domestic tourism will remain and we will encase ourselves in our small Estonian country. But I don't believe in it, and I don't think you do either, no one does. If Minister Taavi Aas says there's no point in supporting them, they're going to die out anyway, he's seriously wrong. And this communication, of course, we will continue, that the restrictions must be removed, that people must be allowed to start living sensibly, because it is not sustainable to continue in the same way. Unfortunately, it's the whole world's trouble today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U76	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, With my next question, I will read the thoughts of my colleague Toomas Kivimäe. This is about today's business conference organised by the Russian business newspaper Delovõje Vedomost, where the Minister of Economic Affairs, Taavi Aas, performed. He said yes, helping tourism companies is a billion-dollar issue, but the government of the Republic of Estonia does not intend to credit tourism companies or give them additional investments. I quoted Äripäev's online publication and asked for a comment on this argument.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U78	We have heard this for some time, and unfortunately this quote shows that the government continues to agree. I have to say, unfortunately, we've been on four winds for a long time. There is no minister in the government to deal with the tourism economy. When the Minister of Culture comes to the Cabinet and says that my field needs a million euros, he gets it, he stands for it. I've been to the cabinet myself and I've seen how it works. Our minister, Siem, whose field [tourism economy] mainly has something in the hands of Minister Taavi Asa, and I often hear that the Minister of Foreign Affairs also comments on these topics, does not get [nothing] from the Cabinet of Government. I don't know, maybe he's not even taking anything, maybe he is, but in any case, nothing's coming back from there. There will also be no comments, even the officials of his own ministry say that we do not know on what grounds these proposals were not discussed and accepted and decisions were not taken. The only answer is that there is no political will. What can I say to Tavi Asa? I'm just, well, he's wrong. We can finally do without state aid, but it will be very, very difficult, and it will lead to negative effects that no one can appreciate today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U79	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U80	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! At the beginning of your presentation, you said that you have come to a meeting of the Reform Party Group in the debate on this important national issue. I think you must probably apologise here, because the political groups in the government departments are currently resolving a very important national issue, an internal dispute of their own. But I would like to ask you about the decline in the turnover of hotels in Tallinn and the comparison with our closest neighbours. There has been a debate on why, for example, the situation in Riga is better than here. Perhaps you would generalise these reasons why, for example, the immediate neighbours have gone differently than the hotel industry in Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U81	When we talk about neighbouring countries or their capitals, the situation is even worse. If you look at how many hotels have been booked in Tallinn and how many hotels have been booked in Riga, this number is even bigger in Riga. So I didn't quite understand the question, in the sense that they're not actually doing better, they're doing worse. The situation in Finland is somewhat better, as Finland is a relatively large country, at least geographically, and they have a significantly higher share of domestic tourism than Estonia, but they are also very poor. In fact, all hotels in the world, the world's tourism as a whole, are doing very badly everywhere. It must also be said that, in fact, the rulers of different countries pay very little attention to this problem. So the Estonian state does not, in fact, differ too much from other countries. And, unfortunately, there are not many of these support measures either.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U82	Thank you, dear waitress. Unfortunately, the time for questions is running out. Jürgen Ligi, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U83	I have a suggestion that we treat the third waitress with dignity. We've been wasting our questions, but we've been working fast, so maybe we could ask some questions from Edward Laane. This is gonna turn out bad right now. The hall is unexpectedly thin, whatever the reason, and we actually have time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U84	Yes, thank you! In fact, it is the proposal from the Reform Party to extend today's sitting until 2 p.m. And that's what we're gonna put to the vote, so actually we're gonna have time for the waitresses. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U85	I would point out that this is not about the time of the sitting, but about the fact that the two questions that had been asked at the beginning have been largely spent and Mr Laane has not had any questions left. It's coming out of a fool. Give him a round of questions. That would be polite treatment and, in essence, the right one.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U86	Yes, in that respect, I completely agree, but unfortunately we have this procedure in place so that the two questions are all put together by all the waitresses. So it's a shame if someone has already taken advantage of their questions and can't ask any more. But that's the way it is. I'm gonna ask Edward Laane, board member of the Kuressaare Hospital Foundation, to speak here. The duration of the report is up to 20 minutes and then 20 minutes for questions and answers. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U87	Good afternoon. Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for the opportunity to speak about what happened at Kuressaare Hospital, which is about the spring corona crisis. The corona crisis began at the end of last year, quite recently in December, when it was reported that there are four cases of unknown pneumonia in Wuhan, China. Later it turned out that the virus is caused, specifically the corona virus, which we call SARS-CoV-2. The disease is called COVID-19. It was a start. At the end of January, the virus spread elsewhere in the world. Our own doctors also became concerned, and during the morning meeting, the board was asked what we had done to prepare for the crisis. We said at the time that the situation was calm, we didn't have to worry too much. At the time, the opinion was also generally that it was a flu-like illness. But what did we actually do the same day after the meeting? We wrote to the pharmacy and asked for a look at the inventory of masks and order more. So the first act, specifically concerning Kuressaare Hospital and preparation for the Coron, actually took place already on 29 January when we started to increase the supply of personal protective equipment. February 25th. It was a time when we knew that there would be a game and that the spread of the virus would increase in Europe. We rewritten the pharmacy and asked for more protection. One can say in advance that when we talk about the spring protective crisis in Estonia, there was no such situation at Kuressaare Hospital, we had protective equipment at all times. There may have been some periods when stocks started to run out a week or ten days later, but at any given time, every day we had protection. The days of the week in the corona crisis were brought to Epicenter by the 4th and 8th days of the week. March when we were visited by a volleyball team from Milan, Italy. Two games took place, and practically parallel to them, the Mull Festival and Women's Day were held. The first call came to the ambulance on the morning of March 8, which is fixed at 9:29 p.m. This was an unspecified viral infection and later the patient turned out to be positive. So we can say, with regard to the flow of the sick, it's March 8th, morning. On March 10 there were five invitations to the ambulance, on March 11 there were 15 invitations already. March 11 was also the date when it came to light that a person involved in a volleyball event in Saaremaa proved a positive corona test. It literally created a fire. On March 12 there were already 43 emergency calls, so the spread grew exponentially. On the evening of the same day, the Emergency Response Centre announced that the emergency call was made for an ambulance in Kuressaare with 172 invitations ahead and that the Emergency Response Centre could no longer manage the situation in Saaremaa. It was a real situation that our PSAP couldn't handle the emergency calls. People had called for help and waited. How did Kuressaare solve the situation at the hospital? It was agreed with the PSAP that the invitations would be sent to our ambulance. The ambulance picked out the brigadier who became a dispatcher. We can argue again whether it was legal or whether it was wrong here, but it was the fastest way to solve the crisis. Then the head of the ambulance team, or dispatcher, started calling people in order to [explain,] greater and faster need for help, worse health. Appropriate queues were made, and those who needed help more quickly were the first to go. This situation was expected to be resolved by weekend night. Then how did we solve this situation at Kuressaare Hospital? On the one hand, the ambulance itself sorted the invitations, made a queue. And on the other hand, we launched a drive-in, which has unfortunately received a lot of unearned criticism. On March 14, we took 114 samples in drive-in and on March 15th, it was Sunday, we took 117 samples. This reduced the number of ambulances. We also need to think about [what is involved] when the ambulance crew goes out: firstly, the time needed for the departure, and the protective equipment needed for each brigade - two nurses, the driver, the driver of the brigade - as well as the disinfectants needed for the car [cleaning]. So it was the fastest and most effective way to shorten the ambulance sequence. Here's two pictures, I'd say they're just iconic pictures of our ambulance worker in a SARS or a coronal costume. You can see how drive-in worked. People were invited at the time of the call to those who had a car on the spot and had a sample taken through the car window, the person did not get out of the car and the sampler was fully protected. On 14 March, a special corona brigade was assigned to take samples from those people in Saaremaa who were unable to arrive by car. The ambulance has also produced statistics and they have written that in March, the so-called regular brigades, which were not directly corona Brigades, had 187 challenges in relation to viral infections. In April there were 52 of these invitations, and the last invitation came on April 30th. How did we solve the crisis at Kuressaare Hospital? On 11 March, the first positive test came, but already a day earlier, a crisis meeting had taken place in the parish and it was said that the situation would get hot and that there would probably be the first positive case immediately. On 11 March, it should be Wednesday, the hospital held a crisis meeting with the leading doctors and an infection-control nurse. We reviewed our supplies and made plans to deal with the situation. March 12th: the hospital board decreed that COVID's crisis committee or steering group should be approved, and on the same day we opened the sorting department, which we called the COVID-nullik. They isolated the patients who came to the hospital and we didn't know if they were corona positive or corona negative. At the time, there was a system in place in Estonia that four hospitals treat patients with corona. Kuressaare Hospital was not, or even, say, not to treat patients with corona, but to send everything to Pärnu Hospital, West Tallinn Central Hospital, North Estonia Regional Hospital or Tartu University Hospital. On 19 March, a new order came from the Health Board, which provided that emergency medical services should bring patients with corona to their local hospital, when hospitals have the capacity to hospitalise the corona. In other words, Kuressaare's ambulance was supposed to bring the sick to us. Kuressaare Hospital was supposed to be ready to treat the sick. At first, we managed our sorting department. We are pleased that other hospitals also received our sick, so that we could still transmit our sick. But by 25 March, the situation was that we had to open our first COVID division. This was the first internal division, including the name COVID I.Sinna we had initially planned ten places, they filled in two days, and we opened another internal division, COVID II. On March 30, we confirmed our guidelines for the treatment of pneumonia, according to which we treat patients with corona. You will see that in the crisis such documents always come a little later, in fact we treated the sick a week or two earlier, but in writing it was confirmed by the March 30 decree. On April 1, we opened the COVID IV section, which concerned in particular nursing homes and our nursing care. On 2 April, a military hospital arrived and then the situation was really the same as the previous speaker, Professor Irja Lutsar, said that models showed a very high infection in Estonia. In the case of Saaremaa, we are talking about about a thousand patients who may have needed treatment. We were given specific advice or orders to get more than 100 extra beds. It also explains why the military hospital showed up. If we look at national guidelines, here is a reference to the Chief of Staff, which is the Health Board's medical guide, which was approved on 9 April, almost a month later when the crisis began. What was our treatment based on? It was based on the famous antimalarial medicine Plaquenil, the active substance hydroxychloroquine. Clarithromycin or Azithromycin, which are antibiotics, were added to it. In fact, our treatment guide also stipulated that more severe patients, such as pulmonary oedema, had to be added to the doctor's statement that they had to, but it was a corticosteroid in the treatment guide, we had Cortisol or Methylprednisolone. What other medicines could the sick be treated with in the spring? It was Remdesivir, but it just wasn't available. A separate patient-specific application was required for Remdisvir. But at that point, the situation around the world was that when I sent the request or tried to send it, the answer came that we would respond in a month's time. This, however, is not the solution at all in this crisis. Tocilizumab, an antibody against interleukin-6, actually existed in Estonia. I believe that regional hospitals have also probably used it. It was available in the Health Board's warehouse, such medicine existed in Estonia. But what is our lesson in medicine? The lesson is that medicines must be obtained before the crisis. When the crisis comes, there will be no more medication. Medications must be ready before the crisis. What was our treatment based on? At that moment, we had the result of a famous French study, which has given us a great deal of response. This is the most basic drawing you can see here. There are three lines. The bottom of the line is a green line that goes practically zero. This indicates that in patients who received hydroxychloroquine and Azithromycin together in this study, the virus was no longer detectable on Day 5 of treatment, i.e. the virus was overcome within five days. However, if only hydroxychloroquine was given a blue line, the mean line, was given, then the amount of virus in the body decreased, but it still survived. This black, last line, this top line, marks the number of patients who did not receive hydroxychloroquine. That was the spring knowledge, and that was what we were guided by. In medicine, we can't really be guided by the wind; we still have to have the basis on which we operate. That was the vessel. Now let's see how hydroxychloroquine actually works. Again, there is a great deal of response to this in the world. I think this drug has had some unearned adverse reactions. I don't quite agree with that myself. Now, in October, a few weeks ago, a Belgian study has also been published, and we ourselves in Kuressaare Hospital call it a Belgian treatment guide. This Belgian treatment guide is, in my opinion, the basis on which it was based. This treatment guide included hydroxychloroquine with Azithromycin, but the duration of treatment was not ten but five days. The dose was smaller. Belgium has analysed its own patients and shown that the mortality rate of those patients hospitalised because they needed hospital care and who received hydroxychloroquine was 17.7%. On the other hand, the mortality rate in patients who were hospitalised in Belgium but did not receive hydroxychloroquine was 27.1%. It's about a 10% difference, it's a very big difference in medicine. When we talk about the crisis and we do not know how to treat it, the result is, frankly, clear: hydroxychloroquine saved the lives of patients in Belgium. We had a total of 131 patients and 151 hospitalization cases, in other words, some patients were hospitalized repeatedly. This was because we really thought it was a flu at first. [The situation] will be fine in a week, the patients will be able to get home. But then they were inside for ten days, two weeks. Actually, hospitalization was longer than we thought at first. The condition of the patients was known to deteriorate during the illness. So do we. When [patient status improved], he was sent back to a nursing home or home. When it got worse at home or in a nursing home, the patient was brought back. These sick people were followed very closely. We died of 18 patients, in brackets marked 19. This 19 is the number we gave to the Health Board as statistics, but one patient died really returned, he had already been released, but was returned. He didn't have any corona symptoms, but he was still PCR positive. In short, according to the last test, he was PCR positive and therefore his death was recorded as corona death. What did the cure look like? March 12th was the date we knew there was an infection in the volleyball game. On March 12th, we stopped the planned work, opened the sorting department. On 25 March we opened COVID I, on 2 May COVID IV. You don't see COVID III here. This too was intended to be opened immediately, but fortunately the field hospital came and this left COVID III unopened. There, emergency infirms were treated, who needed hospitalisation during this crisis. On May 2, we first closed COVID IV. On 18 May, we were able to open a planned work, which took place later than in other Estonian hospitals. The last of the Coronal Division was closed on May 29th. The Health Insurance Fund also audited us. The audit was very thorough, evaluated 95 patients and 97 treatment cases. Therefore, not all patients were evaluated. This is because the audit was conducted in the middle of the crisis, the crisis had not yet ended. We reported these cases that had been completed at the time. The mean age of the hospitalized patient was 71 years, with the youngest being 25, the oldest being 99. Men were a little less than women. Half of the hospitalized patients had one or more comorbidities that make the corona more difficult, such as diabetes, obstructive pulmonary disease, hypertension. Only 23 cases had no comorbidity. Most had fever, cough, weakness, sluggishness on their way to the hospital. The difficulty in breathing was a quarter, and the indigestion was also a quarter. Thirty-three patients had been contacted by a doctor before coming to hospital and 23 of them had already received antibacterial therapy. What did the audit actually analyse? It looked at the patients, their signs and symptoms while they came to the hospital, as well as the treatment we did, say, according to the medicinal products. The analyses and studies that were carried out when the patient came to the hospital were very carefully examined. It also looked at what tests and tests we performed when the patient's condition deteriorated and when the patient was passed on. In fact, the audit was very thorough and, according to the board of Kuressaare Hospital, it gave a comprehensive, exhaustive overview of the treatment of COVID-19 positive patients in Kuressaare Hospital. The crisis also has a cost. Everyone pays, free stuff isn't much in this world. If we count all the costs, we will actually get a million euros. Personal protective equipment has been procured for nearly EUR 300000. There's always a question of whether we were ready. If we looked back and thought that the health manager would have asked for personal protective equipment for EUR 300000 in February, this would have raised a lot of questions. The question is also who will compensate for it. The Health Insurance Fund began to compensate for the costs of personal protective equipment relating to COVID from March onwards. There will be additional accommodation costs for the field hospital. The costs are very high and thanks to the state, we have been compensated for these costs. Coronal deaths. We've got 18 patients dead, and I'm sticking to that number right now, and there's 131 hospitalized patients. So 13.7% of those hospitalized died. Is that bad or good? Is it a lot or a little? You have to look at other data here. In Germany, hospitalized mortality data were recently published, and based on this article, 17% of hospitalized patients died in the hospital. In other words, we didn't have any more deaths. If we look at the overall mortality rate, 139 patients died within nine months in 2019 and 141 have died this year. In other words, total mortality has not changed because of the corona. How much is the Korona in Saaremaa? KoroSero-EST showed that 6.2% have been exposed to corona. Our own antibody testing, which currently has 2200 samples taken at the hospital, is 11.4%. PCR testing: I will not be able to go on this subject today, but the PCR test may be positive for many for a very long time, but in fact these people are not infectious at all. This is a completely separate subject of discussion. At the moment, both scheduled and emergency work is taking place in Kuressaare Hospital, scheduled outpatient work is taking place, physiotherapy is a group of hours. Of course there are restrictions. We have a ban on visiting patients, we have to wear a mask, and before hospitalization, the PCR test is done to prevent infected patients from coming to the hospital. If we look at the cure, I'd say there's a cure. We won't be able to stop here for long. The approved medicines are basically Remdesivir and Dexamethasone, but there are other medicines that should actually be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U88	Thank you, dear waitress. Unfortunately, the report's over. But you have a chance to talk about what you didn't tell us when you answered the questions. You can still tell us everything you need. There are a lot of questions for you. Signe Kivi is the first one to ask, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U89	Thank you. Honourable performer! While watching the news during the crisis, I came to the understanding in my community that you were a kind of pioneer in the initial phase of the pandemic, especially with the launch of a hospital's rapid drive-in test. But, as usual, the initiative is punishable by a sense of that in the case of Saaremaa, watching the news. My question is this: how much or whether you felt the support of professionals and politicians in your work and would you do something different today?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U90	Thank you for your question. It's a bigger question, a philosophical question. In fact, this is a question that we should discuss at the level of the Riigikogu. You are the ambassadors, the highest authority in the country. What should [in your opinion] look like a hospital network or even a medical service in the Republic of Estonia? The current trend is that we have two strong hospitals and the rest of the hospitals are connected to them, and county hospitals could become health centres. The crisis shows that the stronger the county hospital, the more independent it is and the better the specialists work there, the better the population. The crisis is coming. As our ambulance showed, the number of sick will increase in days before they can ask for help. I think that if this crisis comes in the same way [as in the spring], it is likely that our behaviour will be the same. We cannot say what we did wrong, in the sense that we do not know that we would have done something directly wrong. We still think about our person, our patient, it's the doctor's first duty to think about his person, his patient. As far as national orders are concerned, they will come later.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U91	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The previous speaker, who looked at the tourism sector, pointed out that it would rather be necessary to remove restrictions and ensure the movement of people. It's what people expect. But you, by the hospital, must finally take responsibility so that when it gets messy, people can be saved. My question is about these same travel restrictions. We've got that right now, if you come from a country where the rate of infection is high, you give it a sample. If it's negative, it's like you can go to work under limited conditions. In seven days, you'll give another sample and be a free man. However, there is another group that has come from third countries for which we have a 14-day absolute quarantine requirement. What is your assessment as a specialist: where is this truth? No truth is perhaps a lot to ask for, or what is reasonable? Is such a distinction reasonable? And which way are we going: is there a minimum of seven days, or can this time be reduced in any way, or must it still be tougher? Where's the truth?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U93	The truth is sought, the answer is fair. The truth is being sought. I don't think any specialist can tell exactly where this absolute truth is. What we know is that the PCR test is not an absolute gold standard for diagnosis of infection. Yes, a person is PCR positive, but that doesn't mean he's infectious. Infective is a person who has experienced symptoms, some say that even two days before the symptoms, he may be dangerous for up to 7 to 8 days. After that, the person should no longer be infectious. Personally, I am in favour of a free society. The less restrictions, the better. On the other hand, those who have faced the corona also in the hospital, [may say,] I think the spring restrictions were justified. At least as far as Kuressaare and Saaremaa are concerned, we're being shut down. I think it saved us too. The sick came essentially as a single wave very quickly in a short period of time. There were very few sick people in April. Everyone who came to us was probably involved in this one weekend episode. And since everything was shut down very quickly, we didn't have any new infections. So that's a very difficult question. Another example from Saaremaa. As far as I am aware, the municipality has imposed restrictions on its employees so that they do not go to the mainland for training or come to the trainers on the mainland, because the real situation is that someone goes to the training and comes back to the corona-positive. Five people may have been in one machine together, or four, they visit a three-four-five rural municipality facility, and all three-four-five are then potential infected or quarantined, if any of them are positive. So there's not a very single answer here, everyone's looking for an optimal balance. But I'm in favour of an open society.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U94	Eerik-Niles Kross is not in the hall, so you can ask for Helmen Kütt. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U95	Thank you very much. It was a very thorough review. The whole of Estonia watched what was happening in Saaremaa and was very sympathetic to you. I know that colleagues, both doctors and medical students, were all ready to come and help you. Once again, thank you for both this review and the work you have done! My question concerns not what you would do differently, but what you would like to have done differently by institutions that had to assist you, these institutions. What could they have done differently?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U96	Thank you for your question. We didn't think about it in the spring. We were really so busy with ourselves and our hospital activities. What may be striking afterwards is communication, messages given to the population. In some ways, I understand this because the situation in Tallinn was actually quite different from the situation in Saaremaa. We are all human beings and, as a rule, we look at the situation [based on] what is around us, and we also appreciate [this according to] what is around us. The first visit was made by members of the government and the headquarters on 28 March. Perhaps this was the earliest date in view of the national mechanisms. But first action is still taking place on the ground. I must certainly acknowledge here the government of Saaremaa that they reacted very quickly, immediately. The hospital and the parish government really had excellent cooperation. As far as state aid is concerned, in April we had headquarters. The biggest plus of the stab, I also thank the chiefs of staff who were in our care, is that they bring along the competences that we, as doctors, do not have. This concerns, figuratively speaking, drawing and plans in particular. If there's a crisis, you're gonna have to deal with something. If we follow instructions, precepts, there must be a precept, a guide to act on, but at the same time there will be action. You could say why you don't act, why you draw plans, but on the other hand, you can say why you don't draw plans, you act. They're both important. In April, we had a situation where we could deal with the treatment and headquarters drew plans. So to sum up what had been done by the end of April, I think that thanks to the staff, Kuressaare Hospital had the most professional guidance or guidance on how to get out of the crisis. I'm saying help came, but it was delayed. Yesterday, there was also a meeting of the Hospitals' headquarters, and I conclude from that that, in fact, the Health Board is currently reorganizing its work. So it was a lesson for everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U97	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U98	Thank you. When we visited you in Kuressaare in June and talked about these matters for a long time, you said that these lessons were not really collected to draw conclusions from what happened. This audit seems to be aimed only at finding out if something was wrong. But after that, have you been asked how to do better?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U99	Thank you for your question. That's a very painful question. But I thank the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu for inviting us here. You're actually the first to ask for such an overview.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U100	Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U101	Thank you, good waitress, for a very good presentation. My question is that you said nicely that it was a completely new situation in spring. They weren't ready for that, which makes sense in some ways. But my question is about autumn. I am personally concerned that, at least in public, I have not heard that the Ministry of Social Affairs or the Health Board should have provided specific guidance on how we should behave in hospitals across Estonia on how to distinguish patients with COVID virus and how in-patient treatment can take place at the same time, so that patients, doctors and nurses can be protected. Has this information been shared with you, at least in private, somewhere in the ministry? There hasn't been a public hearing. Do you have any knowledge of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U102	Thank you for your question. Indeed, hospital preparedness is a very acute matter of national importance. Yesterday there was a meeting of the hospital headquarters and based on what has been heard there, the Health Board is currently reviewing its structures and these documents are being prepared. As far as I know, emergency plans and threat levels were sent to hospitals last night for review. You'll probably hear more about them next week. The State and the Health Board are actively addressing this issue. That's the answer right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U103	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U104	Thank you. And thank you for what you did in Kuressaare Hospital and more generally in Saaremaa! This audit still doesn't give me any peace. During that critical period, it seemed that Kuressaare Hospital did nothing wrong. The audit has drawn conclusions and I understand that nothing was done wrong. But would you be a little more specific about what the situation was? It was a novel disease, and there was no national treatment guide. You were in a situation where you were approached by the first and most extensive number of patients. You were faced with a choice, either to do nothing or to do something on the basis of your medical knowledge and experience. Would you mind commenting a little bit on this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U105	Thank you for your question. Really, if we go back to spring, it can be said that Kuressaare Hospital was alone. He was supposed to be on his own. What happens during crises and what is very human is that doctors communicate with each other. There was a lot of communication, such informal communication. Intensive physicians communicated with each other; pulmonary doctors communicated with each other. There were, in fact, a lot of instructions about how other countries have acted or what someone is doing. For example, I received a medical guide at the time of Massachusetts General Hospital, or Massachusetts General Hospital, and we also had an "Italian treatment guide" in front of us, a French study was available, and information was received from Finland about how Finns had acted on a lot of instructions. It is the doctor's duty to help the patient and he or she chooses treatment or treatment that seems to be the safest and most effective. The doctor can't say I'm not doing anything or there's no cure. It doesn't match the doctor's call. There is a cure, and there's still a way to help. And we should have that message today. When we look at the drugs, it turns out we don't have anything. Remdesivir is, but now there's going to be a WHO study, and it's like saying that Remdesivir isn't working. I believe that the scientific council is also likely to analyse this. But in the case of corona, it really has happened, as Professor Irja Lutsar said, all messages in the media are predominantly negative. As far as I've been monitoring the media, all messages are negative. There must always be something wrong. But it's not true that there must always be something wrong. Consider, for example, the medications. I showed you the Belgian study on which Belgian treatment was based and on which Estonian treatment guidelines are based to a large extent. According to this, our patients who were given hydroxychloroquine actually benefited from comparing them with those who received the other medicine. This is not a hundred percent scientific conclusion, but we can still make estimates. The time of crisis has shown that when a crisis arrives locally, the same local hospital or institution must first cope with the crisis itself. This is the most important lesson for the hospital. If anything had happened in Pärnu or Ida-Virus, the first blow, the first treatment should have been done by a local hospital. He has to make all these decisions himself. Imagine [what would happen] if we lifted our hands up when we had nearly 200 people in line for an ambulance and said that the ambulance would be here in a week, and in the meantime, wait. This could end with a person dying at home waiting for an ambulance. These situations need to be resolved very quickly and very operationally. So, in fact, legislation must also be flexible [in relation to] how to act in crisis situations. Otherwise, we will act and then it will become clear that we have not acted exactly in accordance with this or another regulation. This is also, in fact, a lesson for the Riigikogu on how to resolve future crises in such a way that those who resolve the crisis do not get into resentment or paragraphs and should not start writing explanatory notes and taking responsibility for why they were done both in the way and not the other way around.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U106	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U107	Thank you. Dear Dr. Edward Laane! Thank you for your presentation, but above all, of course, for what you did in Kuressaare during the crisis. As we know, this time the crisis first hit Saaremaa. I, too, had luck or an accident to observe the progress of this crisis on the ground in Saaremaa, thank God, not as a patient. Anyway, yeah, the front or, how to put it, the front line or even the reconnaissance team just had the Kuressaare Hospital. My question is to use this term as a military term, so how did it operate in the rear? What kind of state services, what country's behaviour or the help of which state structures would have been most important to you when the crisis broke out, and what was most lacking?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U108	Perhaps the shortest answer: epidemiologist. If we have a virus outbreak, we need an epidemiologist just to predict how to behave. The most urgent need is [to identify] how the virus will spread and what the municipality's "preparedness" or activities must be. So epidemiology at all [was what was lacking]. That's my answer. As far as the financial resources are concerned, I think we had them at the time, fortunately. And as far as medicines are concerned, the crisis has shown that they have to exist earlier. It's a very small window in which more can be provided. We also have a great deal of personal protective equipment in the last three days. So it's a small window in which you can operate. All this state aid, such as these big planes and a very large amount of personal protective equipment, came about a month later. So the lesson of the crisis is that you have to be ready before you answer briefly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U109	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U110	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! During the period of emergency, while you were still under a lot of pressure at the epicenter, there was already an autopsy of this activity. While the issue of medicines was a national issue in the media and elsewhere, it was a data protection issue. As an observer, I thought the press on the doctors was insane. From the perspective of crisis management to the future, we must, of course, take stock, but I think it must be done in the right format and at the right time. How do you assess whether the crisis was so rapid and dramatic that it had to be made by huge noise everywhere in the media? How do you feel about whether the lessons should be summarised later or whether they should be discussed on a rolling basis?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U111	Thank you. As far as lessons are concerned, I have also received a request from citizens to discuss in the Riigikogu whether the Riigikogu should convene or form a support group for minimising the corona ovens. I think the Riigikogu could do this and examine it. As far as communication is concerned, I think the media is the media, we must take that into account. What helps to level it out by the media is, in fact, collegiality. When we think about vitamin C, we had our meetings every day. The doctors at the field hospital who have worked in intensive care said it was normal. Our intensive care doctors also said it was normal. My colleagues in Tartu also said that this was normal. As far as I am aware, a doctor in Tallinn said that this is normal. It was not said at the time, it is said now, several months later. It's a question of collegiality.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U112	Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U113	Thank you. Good waitress! In your presentation, you also mentioned very nicely the money figures, that if anyone, even you, wanted to order personal protective equipment for EUR 300000 at the beginning of the year, it would have been very difficult to justify it. Consequently, the question: how is it now, whether a clear message has been received from the government or the Ministry of Social Affairs, that hospitals can submit applications for [ordering personal protective equipment] and these applications are given separate money so that it should not come from hospital's own inpatient care? And the second question. I know major hospitals have ordered [personal protection] themselves. Are you sure today that you have been given the assurance that all these personal protective equipment is actually in place in the country, the ones you are seeking?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U114	Thank you. I can't answer you completely. As far as I'm concerned, we're buying personal protective equipment ourselves, a month's supply by the state. How exactly is the budget for next year going to determine whether these COVID costs have been accounted for there, such as the daily care price, I cannot respond to that. As far as Kuressaare Hospital is concerned, we now have over 100,000 masks and at least 10,000 protective coats. Kuressaare Hospital has been preparing for several months of crisis. But at national level, the cost of personal protective equipment should really be included either in the visit fee or in the bed-day price.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U115	Thank you, dear waitress. Unfortunately, the time for questions and answers is over. Thank you! In order for us to be able to move forward, we need to extend the hearing. I have two proposals. One is the proposal of the Estonian Reform Party Group to extend the session until its agenda item is exhausted and the other is the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs to extend the working time until the entire agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. As we have other items on the agenda today, with your permission, I propose that we extend the sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Let's call all the colleagues in the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal to extend the working time of the Riigikogu plenary session until the agenda is exhausted on 22 October, but no longer than 14. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U116	There are 28 members of the Riigikogu with one abstention. The hearing has been extended. All right, let's get on with our discussions and open up the negotiations. Only political groups may speak... I'm sorry! All members of the Riigikogu may speak. The length of the report is as usual 5 + 3 minutes. First, please, this is Signe Riisalo.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U117	Thank you. Thanks for the reports! I can't highlight any of them, they were very different and described from a very different angle everything that's happened to us in the last eight months. It is quite difficult to sum up this three-hour discussion of questions, answers, presentations, or eight months of very different painful experiences and lessons, as well as progress. We don't have all the answers, and there's a lot of ignorance ahead of us. One thing is certain: there are no target groups or areas of life in society that were not directly or indirectly affected by this virus. But what we may have learned about in this Chamber today, or a little bit of the same thinking, and which passed all the presentations, is communication in management, including process management, crisis management, support for each other. This is something we still have much to learn about. Communication also in terms of the media. Irja Lutsar and Edward Laane pointed out that even in the face of the crisis, it is possible to highlight positive, even minor, progress that would reduce people's stress levels and give faith in tomorrow's day. Reducing stress levels is important. This is important because, as Kaja kindly explained to us, [it is necessary to look at] the effects [of the crisis] on people's mental health. The worst effect on mental health is always ignorance. Ignorance gives rise to fear, and it is ignorance that will continue to pursue us with this virus. What else can we learn or take with us? It is clear, however, that [we need] codes of conduct. We listened to Edward Laane, and we realized that at some point any of us could be affected by the crisis, so he's alone, he's all alone. He does not have the rules in force so far, because they have not been needed before, and he does not really have the support of various authorities. There are colleagues. And colleagues, as we heard, could be relied upon. be it protective equipment or medicines, including existing antiviral medicines or other medicines available on a daily basis over the counter. Vaccines, not only those vaccines that we are looking forward to, but also those that we might have today to vaccinate against influenza. They also reduce health risks and the burden on the health system. After all, the expectation is clearly stated here for all of us today. We have heard what proposals the tourism sector has, and we have heard what proposals the Scientific Advisory Board has. They overlap. Are you paying attention? Closure, absolute lockdown is not the way to solve this concern. Restricting the movement of people is not the solution; it is actually a message received from several parties today. We talk about education, we talk about health care arrangements, social welfare, disabled children and nursing homes. All these issues are, in fact, still to be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U118	Thank you. The organiser of today's debate, the Reform Party, had a proposal that political groups first speak. I believe Signe was currently the representative of the group. Thank you. Next up is Riina Sikkut. Do you represent a group, yes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U119	Thank you to all the waitresses. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that the Reform Party wanted to discuss this coronal experience in this Chamber as an important national issue. I think it is very important to take stock of what we have been through and what are the first lessons. We all have to learn from it, it's natural. Mistakes were made, but a lot of things went right. On this basis, we need to make wiser decisions and move on. It turned out very nicely from the echo report that the crisis also sheds light on the points of pain that have so far been hidden. Children's mental health was a problem with an understanding of the size of the problem, with access to services even before the crisis. And the crisis amplified it, amplified it for individual people. Children who were already concerned may have been disproportionately affected by distance learning. [CHRIST] also pointed out that we should have such wider support and support. This crisis affected children, residents of nursing homes, perhaps workers at home, through distance learning. Next time, it will have an effect somewhere else and others. But the fact that we are able to spot, help and provide the necessary services must guarantee us both before and after the crisis. I would actually draw the subject of mental health wider. In the case of young people, early intervention to prevent problems later in life is very important. And it is not only about the experience of the crisis, but also about how we communicate in society. Whether young people feel that in the issues that are important for them, this is about climate, greening, banning fur farms and animal protection, they have spokespersons, understanding their concerns, those who stand for these values also at the level of the state, preferably the government, or at least the Riigikogu. Otherwise, the alienation or the notion that no one understands me will be much broader in society. Dr. Irja Lutsar described her experience. I think it is very important that the [truth] came from this crisis, how important scientists are to us and how good scientists we have. Scientific knowledge and what it is, we have not thought about it on a daily basis. Scientific knowledge may change, and scientists may disagree, but in the end, discussions need to filter out what can be used to make decisions right now. The traditional concept of science as something slow does not always apply. Scientists can also react quickly, whether it concerns our monitoring study, waste water analysis, testing and vaccine development. Science can help us with the resolution of the crisis in the same calendar year, can provide ongoing support, even by analysing data, to make better decisions. Without science, we grope in the dark, and the country's financial support could go there much bolder in the light of the spring experience. The fact that the effects of the crisis are disproportionate to people has sounded a lot. Felix Mägus's report also revealed how disproportionate this impact has actually been for businesses. The previous crisis hit the financial sector, but this time it's more like housing, tourism. And actually, if we want to support people, then we need to consider who is weaker and who needs more support, but that is exactly what we need to do in the case of entrepreneurship. Whether we support agriculture with hundreds of millions or do not support tourism actually shows choices, emphasis, what is considered important and whether decisions are made on the basis of who has been more affected by the crisis. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U120	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U121	Or it's based on some other criteria. Dr. Edward Laane's presentation described this crisis experience most closely. This experience can really have an impact on our county hospital network. [He spoke] about how much we should all have acquired or practiced certain skills during the exercise. But there was also a good example of how necessary it is, in the event of a crisis, to actually have suitable people in place, to make decisions quickly and to have a common understanding that mistakes are still being made it is normal, to learn from them and to move forward. [Error-making] is not something to start a detailed dissecting and pointing fingers at after the crisis, but rather a place of learning. If we look to the future now, on everything we've been through so far or what the knowledge of our scientists is, we should be able to make better decisions. My favorite example [is related to the reimbursement of sick days]. A lot of people talked about compensation for sick days during the summer, but there are similar concerns about entrepreneurship and education. People have concerns that they cannot follow the recommendations made by government and scientists because they put their own livelihood at risk. In such a case, it is undeniable that we should go to help and compensate for the first days of illness. Similarly, [it is necessary to provide support to schools so that distance learning can be carried out if necessary. At the same time [should] make recommendations and describe the importance of contact and attendance in the classroom for students, so that these decisions are not made lightly. Thank you for a good debate. Thank all the waitresses! We will take advantage of this crisis, we will be smarter in the future, and we will be better prepared for the next crises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U122	Thank you. Mikhail Lotman, on behalf of the Fatherland Group, please! You'll have three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U123	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Riigikogu! The pandemic we are living in was a surprise to the world, although one could have learned from the very successful previous SARS and MERS epidemics, especially here it comes to mind how Vietnam managed it successfully. One reason certainly was that the Chinese authorities at the beginning were secretive and then for a very long time delayed the dissemination of information, so far these documents in the initial phase are not partly public. Satellite photos allow us to assume that something happened in Wuhan already in October 2018. Currently, the virologic institute there is under military control. Of course, it creates all kinds of conspiracy theories that I'm not going to present to you here. But the fact that it was a surprise for us and that this surprise was bad, we need to prepare for more surprises. There are many paradoxes involved in this pandemic and the virus. One of the first is that the better the level of medicine, the worse the results in society. Italian medicine is considered to be one of the best in Europe and there was the first wave of the disease. Similarly, we can see how it is currently whipping the United States, where medicine, too, is not at a bad level. Professor Lutsar also drew attention to this paradox. I think the crisis we are in is going to last a long time. I'm pretty careful hoping for a vaccine. We're seeing the vaccine enthusiasm decline. As you know, the first person vaccinated with the famous Sputnik vaccine died yesterday in COVID, Russia. At the same time, we are seeing more and more verified examples of secondary infection. So the hope that we will now suffer from the disease and then be safe is perhaps also too optimistic. The bad scenario is that COVID stays with us like the flu, but COVID's lethality is much greater than the flu. But the other thing, maybe unexpected, is that the second wave behaves differently than the first. When it comes to infectivity, it's the same, maybe even bigger, but it's a lot less lethal. This disease and this pandemic are putting a number of dilemmas in front of the world and each country. In fact, I'd say it's not a dilemma, it's a pentalemma. The first is the subject that has already been heard, it has sounded many times today: economy versus health. Who are we going to sacrifice? Do we save people and kill the economy, or do we save the economy and kill people? I specifically choose such strong expressions. Unfortunately, if we kill people, we don't know who the economy is, and if we kill the economy, people won't be happy. It is in a very sharp form precisely the political challenge between Skylla and Charybdis. We need to find not the perfect way, but the optimal way. But like I said, it's not a dilemma. In addition to physical health, mental health, social mental health is also a very important factor. We see the growth of psychoses, suicides and other bad things in all countries. We are also seeing political and other tensions growing around the world in almost all countries and societies, which may not be directly related to this. We can see how too high standards are protested in the US or Spain and the government is not trusted. The crisis in Belarus did not really start with the presidential elections, but with Lukashenko not being entrusted. On the contrary, it was said that there was no disease, drink vodka and smell garlic. And then people realized that the government was lying and hiding something from them. There was a social network that was immediately ready after the elections. So there's no such [one-of-a-kind] recipe for everyone. It was, therefore, the fourth [point]. The fifth [point] is international relations. We can see how relations between countries are strained. We don't trust others. Lessons: The main lesson is that we need to be prepared for unexpected events and take into account a possible very bad scenario. We're in a situation where we don't know a lot of things. But there are some things we know. We can't transport corona patients in hundreds of cars with the same personnel and take them to hundreds of hospitals. This was Italy's main problem in order to immediately isolate and so on. We need to have ready, selected already now, large gyms that can be deployed immediately if necessary. So are field hospitals, breathing appliances, etc. We've been talking about the importance of experts, but experts talk about different things. Virologists and epidemiologists do not always agree with each other. After all, we have this responsibility, we have to form a group of experts that we trust, and we have to make it credible for society as well. The media play a very important role here. Professor Lutsar spoke about not overemphasising negative results. What's CNN doing in America? So many dead today, so large [infected] total number, the government is completely wrong on the road, etc. The government isn't always wrong. We have made mistakes, but I would say that so far the government has managed this crisis satisfactorily. I hope that things will go well in the future, but we must also be prepared for bad scenarios. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U124	Viktor Vassilyev, on behalf of the Central Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U125	Thank you. Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu, I would like to ask for three more minutes. It's not like I'm worse.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U126	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U127	Ladies and gentlemen, Listen, today is a happy day, because today, in this dignified hall, the voice of reason was heard, even several times. Personally, I am deeply grateful to today's performers, Professor Irja Lutsar, of course, first. And if I were not here as a representative of the Central Party Group, I would also like to thank Kaja Kallas and the Reform Party for having called a debate on this subject. But, as I said, I am speaking as a representative of the Central Party Group, and that is why I cannot thank you. But now about what the government is doing in a difficult situation. In this epidemic or pandemic, no matter what we call it, there are three dimensions, there is nothing to be done. One is purely medical, followed by economic and political intertwining. And they're all intertwined, and we have to eat all this soup. Of course, everything we call the first wave took place in a certain political situation and under the leadership of one political force, namely the coalition. Again, if I were not presently a representative of the Centre Party Group, I would have said that there would have been another coalition in power, it would probably have been done the same way. However, the present coalition did not do its will, but listened to specialists, because Jüri Ratas and Tanel Kiik are neither epidemiologists nor virologists. They listened to and acted in harmony with what the Health Board's epidemiologists, a committee of scientists or a group of experts, said. Yeah, of course, someone might point the finger at the bugs right now. But you know what one of the main epidemiology postulates is that it is better to overreact in an epidemiologically dangerous situation than to ignore something. Yeah, we can say later, maybe something could have been done differently. At the time, however, the experts did not have a single opinion either. However, the experts did not start to disown each other or decide anything by voting, but they deliberately chose the path where there were stronger restrictions, because all the experts knew that leaving a small hole open could be very troublesome. Right now, it seems that we already know something about the intentions of this virus, how it operates and what it creates. But it's just today's knowledge. Who knows, maybe in the spring we'll learn something more, find out more. And certainly mistakes will be made in the future, but medicine, like any other science, will only evolve in the face of many mistakes and mistakes, without them the right solution will not be found. And here is what was discussed both in the government and in the ministry: how can we manage the restrictions in such a way that the restrictions are strong enough, but at the same time would harm people, our people in Estonia, less? Well, you can blame it here in retrospect, of course, but it's not about blaming. It is actually that, when we take political action, any place in the world [is that] every time a wave goes by, when we call it a wave, the dominant political power, be it the chairman of the Communist Party, the President of the Republic or the bloody dictator, can celebrate the victory. And victory will come anyway, because people will survive. I have a recommendation to the Reform Party and to the Social Democrats that we are together in such important matters, because when an enemy stands on the border and targets us with gun pipes, it is not appropriate for us to start a political fight and push our political enemy into the barrel of a gun, but we must all think together about what is better for our people. Lessons. What are our lessons? There are quite a few of them, and there will certainly be more. As far as purely medical measures are concerned, they should be discussed by specialists. Let's not vote this in the Riigikogu for God's sake. But as far as the economy is concerned, one lesson is to listen to specialists. They know better what needs to be done. Voting is not always the right way. The vaccine, yes, I'm sure the vaccine will come. But, good people, this is not the kind of thing that will surely save us all and save the future of mankind. There's a vaccine against influenza. Not enough, every year a new one is made, and despite this, around half a million people worldwide die of influenza every year. So neither the vaccine is a way out, but one day it will come. And just like the influenza vaccine, it needs to be modified every year according to the mutation of the virus. It seems that at least the specialists talk so much that it is a seasonal air - contagious virus, so it is likely to behave in a similar way to a flu virus. Every year, we expect another outbreak. We can call them waves now, but I dare say that after the third wave, we don't read them anymore, but we realize that it's a seasonal outbreak. I want us all to do what we can, regardless of our political differences. And you know what that is? Wash your hands and don't live on each other's backs, and if you're told to wear a mask, don't say it's a central party order, but act like it's supposed to be. By doing so, everyone will contribute. And then, once the Prime Minister calls again some kind of thank-you event, you'll be invited, and we can be proud together that we've done something. By the way, we've all achieved something together. Last season, the flu in Estonia was virtually nonexistent, not one flu death in the last ten years. In Estonia, the majority of 50-90 people have died of influenza, and in the previous season no one has died. It's almost November. According to the experience of previous years, the flu diagnosis should be in hundreds, maybe thousands by the end of November, but we don't have any. So this is our victory, this is what we achieved together. If [on top of all] we had another 50 flu deaths, the number of [deaths] would be much higher. But we'll live happily ever after and be better well! Please be well too, reform parties and socialists! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U128	Urmas Espenberg, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U129	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not a virologist, a scientist or a specialist, so I'm talking more generally. The theme setting was very correct. As my colleague mentioned here, the opponents would not like to be commended very much, but there was a need to discuss the subject. It is characteristic of man to meditate and draw conclusions. Maybe a cogito, ergo sum, as Descartes thinks, so I am. Humankind has been wrestling with viruses since birth, knowingly perhaps the last 10,000 years when medical science began to begin. The worst of these diseases may have been plague and cholera, which often mowed almost 80 to 90% of the population. Those who have been to the Czech Republic [they know that] there are many pillars of plague. Hop! At one point, the last 10 to 20 percent of the population were left, who actually erected these pillars. In Estonia, too, the plague caused great misfortune. During the Northern War, there were 200,000 [disruption] deaths in Estonia, which led to a decrease in the population to 150,000 people. It was as much as it was in 1200. It's no better than cholera. Here's an example of Goa, because I've worked there a lot myself. Old Goa, the capital of [the ancient] capital, the Portuguese conquered it on St. Catherine's day in 1526 on November 25th. They decided to make their capital literally into a swamp. It also became fatal for them because the quality of drinking water deteriorated, disease spread, mosquitoes carried them along, and cholera epidemics broke out. Churches were built in the hope that this would get rid of God's punishment, but it didn't help, and so there was a very small part of the population left. The current New Goa, or Panaji, did not become capital until 200 years later. It took me so long to figure it out. Poor and nonexistent medical care was the main cause of all this. It was only in the 19th century, relatively late, that a proper sewerage was made to Europe, to Paris and London. Things improved, of course. But the new time brought new troubles. As they say, society's mobility, transport, the great crowds began to move. This created the conditions for increasing the risk of rapid and massive spread of disease. The latest major diseases have been HIV, Ebola virus and influenza. Unfortunately, the first flu, Spanish, broke quite a few lives. But one theory was that overproduction of antibodies by certain drugs caused many deaths. And now there's a new virus, and in the meantime there were SARSs and MERS. Influenza is generally associated with comorbidity. They may not directly kill themselves to the extent that [just in cases where a person] has heart failure, lung disease, breathing difficulties. Then the virus's gonna give you a hard-on. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U130	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U131	At first, there was very little information about it. And as Viktor quite rightly said, it is better to be safe than sorry. We imposed restrictions very quickly. We didn't know where the disease was coming from, what could be behind it, how much it would die, how much it would get sick. Now there's a lot more information, specialists are working, and I hope we can do better. The virus also kicked the shit out of the economy. Especially on this 'people's delight' side. Why is there so much mental disorder? Travel was taken away. Nightlife, entertainment, theaters, all these things were shut down, and that makes me sad. All you left was a TV and a book. The recession was also great, but I wouldn't stop at that much longer. But finally, I'd like to send a few positive messages. I think they're gonna win this thing like everything's been won. When is this a question of your own? And some positive ones, however, were brought into the economy by [the virus], such as e-learning, e-meetings, e- Entertainment, new business models. In short, the digital revolution takes place on the breeze. Viktor has already mentioned that hygiene has become very effective among Estonians. And with fewer planes flying and no ships flying, it's like there's been a round of greens. Of course, the IT sector, the pharmaceutical industry and medicine are developing enormously. Perhaps Estonia will be the first to reach the vaccine, who knows there is hope. Finally, since I am a former tourist worker, I am very concerned about the tourism sector. Sincerely. There's such a bad situation that the state really can't support these people. We don't know when this thing will end, when the vaccine will come. Perhaps a small measure would help. For example, it could be monitored whether a country, such as Tenerife, could launch direct winter flights, as winter holidays are badly needed by people. Also, many small traders have pawned their homes on loans for business activity here too, perhaps you could look at things more legally, at least not to take away their homes and grant a payment extension until it comes back. That would be all for short. I think we can do this, and it's gonna end well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U132	Next, please speak to Helmen Hunter.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U133	Thank you very much. Eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U134	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U135	I would like to thank the initiators for bringing a very important subject to debate and, of course, excellent waitresses, professionals and professionals in my field. The spring of the crisis was filled with many trials, hardships, anxiety, and fears. The older generation suffered from loneliness, many of the elderly were between homes without seeing long months of their children, grandchildren, and acquaintances. For the residents of the home, a special situation literally meant life behind locked doors. It was also very difficult for loved ones who missed the opportunity to sit on the bedside of a poor mother or father, to hold the hand of a loved one. Such moments spent together are priceless. There was also a lack of close attention to whether health has changed and whether there is an urgent need to contact a family doctor. Who, then, is better able to detect changes in the health of older people than medical workers, who, unfortunately, are very few in nursing homes, or those who have often visited care institutions. Several places were in a situation where for six months there was no opportunity to meet their loved ones, even using masks or other protective equipment. Sadly, loved ones often saw their ancestor or ancestor in a coffin. Yes, the kroon virus also took lives in nursing homes, but even more people left because of the exacerbation of the chronic illness or because it was not noticed, or because they died of grief, longing because there was no will to live. There were 63 victims of the official kroon virus in Estonia in the spring, but we do not know how many people died because medical care and specialist medical care were not available or were in difficulty. [These included] people who missed scheduled surgery. Perhaps we do not really know how many so-called invisible victims there were. This sad line includes the deaths of welfare institutions. By now, autumn is taking over, the virus has grown in comparison to summer. During the summer, when you could breathe lightly, did you have enough analysis of what you were going through in the spring? What harm did it do to people's mental health, and thus to the worsening of chronic illness, is the failure of relatives to meet? Was it justified and proportionate to exclude older people, especially the elderly, from society? And have mistakes been learned? I offer my point of view. In early spring, the world was turned upside down, and the unknown virus caused fear and ignorance, which led to the balancing of nursing homes between reasonable and unreasonable restrictions and deprivation of freedoms. In several institutions, even the possibility of receiving packages from home was lost, even for Mother's Day. The latter has never been banned by the Health Board, on the contrary. The packages were just advised to stop for 78 hours and then deliver them to the elderly. In a situation where visitation is forbidden, the packages are almost the only link with the loved one, while they create positive emotions and a sense of home. On the one hand, it made sense to make decisions on the ground, because the incidence rates of infection in the regions were very different. However, while the Health Board and the Scientific Advisory Board allowed the doors of nursing homes to be opened for regular visits or outside visits on 1 June, several institutions delayed this deadline to 1 July, although local health indicators were good. It was not even considered how to arrange meetings with the help of fresh air and protective equipment. Yes, each country must find its own solutions and methods, because the countries are very different, but I believe it is worth learning a lot from what our neighbours have done in one area or another. I take some examples from Finland. At the beginning of the pandemic, the strong recommendation of the Finnish Government was 70+ people to stay at home even more pressing than in Estonia. But the elderly living in our home were good, conscientious, taking into account the advice of scientists and the best experts, and so there were relatively few infections among the elderly living at home. There was also a ban on visiting Finnish welfare institutions, but since May, when the weather got warm, meetings were organised outside, keeping sufficient distance. There were also meeting rooms equipped with plexiglass and microphones, which were used for previously agreed meetings and were disinfected after each guest left. There were many other interesting solutions that we should learn from. More importantly, many studies were conducted in Finland in the spring to find out what isolation meant for people with dementia, mental health problems, both elderly and young people living in special care facilities or in isolation. [Studies] were made to avoid mistakes and to prepare for the second wave of the virus so that people would be kept and guaranteed a decent old age with a safe opportunity to get together with loved ones. Perhaps the situation was analysed and, on the basis of best practice, people are now ready to act consciously. Like Finland, Estonian nursing homes should also have a plan of how life deals with the virus. Just as in the event of a fire, we have an evacuation plan and it is being played through, how workers do not bring the virus and how to arrange meetings in a way that protects the elderly. Different ways of using entrances for visitors should be considered, so that there is less cross-use of rooms, still to minimise the risk of disease. Clearly, there is no guarantee of 100% security for anyone. It's the same at home, by the way. The new normality must not be that nursing homes are locked up, older people do not have the opportunity to meet loved ones and see their grandchildren grow up, and they simply have to wait for death behind locked doors. The voice of the elderly in the nursing home is weak, often not heard. In September there was a lot of confusion and information noise about masks in Estonia. This was particularly the case for welfare institutions and special care institutions. The government decided that employees and visitors of both special care institutions and general care homes are obliged to wear a mask as of 14 September. It became known at the last minute, Saturday night, and also via the media, not through official roads, in both institutions and special care institutions, which actually provide public services. The government's decision to make wearing a mask mandatory for nursing workers and visitors is very right. As the Minister of Social Affairs said in the Committee of the Riigikogu, it ensures the openness of nursing homes and the possibility of continuing visits and helps to avoid closing doors. Time indicates whether the obligation to wear a mask also leads to an increase in the fee. The reality, however, was this, and now specifically: Viljandi County Hoolekandekeskus closed its doors to visitors from September 14th, the day when wearing the mask was made mandatory for visitors. Was the point of this decision really to lock the doors again? Finally. The desire to keep and protect the elderly is understandable, but people must not be deprived of any right to make their own decisions, even to change them into an object. Locking doors is not the answer. The solution is sensible and thoughtful action. We need to learn to live with the virus, from children to people of old. Still, to make life more beautiful and old age more deserving. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U136	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U137	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Today I think it has been an extremely interesting time to think together by listening to these very excellent presentations. But perhaps this has also been the time of everyone's own thinking: where and who are we and who are we really representing? I am not thinking of Parliament here, I am thinking of a person as such. This virus has come to remind us once again that we are part of nature. This is an excellent example of an intelligent biological experimenter who can find a niche in where we feel very strongly and sometimes indifferent to each other. Perhaps, in fact, the virus has come to a place where we are quite vulnerable: our biological nature, our social behaviour models, which can be very different, whether they are always right, it is self-questioned, our entire political purposeful or untargeted activity. When we think about it, [we understand] the virus has wisely broken into everything, rightfully, and it conducts everything. He's world leader number one today. Say the leader of one country who can make so many things work at once for your own good or against yourself. So it's a test, a test, [to find out] who we are, how we manage, whether we really understand who we are, that we're part of nature. It is a test of social, socio-cultural systems; it is a test of the leaders of all countries who consider themselves to be leaders or who really is. I think it's all worth it if we learn from it. Are we studying? It all depends on whether we want to learn. It's not the first virus. HIV came in 1985. I would very much like to agree with Mr Espenberg that we will get rid of him anyway, but unfortunately I am not very convinced of it. Maybe you don't have to. HIV is still spreading, 79 million infected over these years, 33 million dead, 1.7 million infected every year. We know how to avoid him. But does a person want to avoid? He says he doesn't care, he doesn't care. It's the same with all the viruses, the same with this. What we know for sure today is how to prevent this virus. We don't have a vaccine today, and this virus seems to be something that the vaccine will never be effective against. We don't have a cure today either, but the cure is perhaps even a more promising option. But what we know is this, like I said, what to do. And there's actually one possibility that bioethics call it informed consent. People must first understand what is and what must be done about it. Otherwise, you can't act. But even then, a lot of people don't make it a thing. I think that [a good example is] how Taiwan was able to make an excellent [start] with this epidemic there is a whole group of other countries, too, their approach at national level was honest, straightforward and end-to-end in people's understanding. Only then can things work. I think it's the easiest. It's exactly the same for raising a child. Only the current situation changes every day. I'm optimistic our people can handle it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U138	Thank you. There's no further call request. I thank all the speakers in today's debate and all the questioners. The debate on a key national issue is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U139	We have two more items on the agenda today. Unfortunately, we will probably not be able to get through them, but we can start with the first one, and then we will see if we can get to the end of this today, or whether the conclusion of the debate will shift to next week. This is the first reading of Bill 231 of the Law amending the Code of Civil Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic (guaranteeing an action based on infringement of intellectual property rights). I'd like a speech chair here, Minister of Justice Raivo Aegis.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U140	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Ministry of Justice has prepared a draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure, which specifies how to guarantee the enforcement of an action for infringements of intellectual property rights. The aim of the draft is to provide faster and more effective protection for infringements of copyright, related rights and industrial property rights. By way of guarantee, a court in civil matters will be able to take various measures and regulate the contested legal relationship already at the time of legal proceedings in order to stop the infringement and prevent the victim from being harmed. The measures applied shall, as a general rule, be in force during the legal proceedings and, where appropriate, after the judgment has been delivered until they have been enforced. They can also be applied for before the action is brought. The current Code of Civil Procedure allows the applicant to request that the court apply the remedy to the defendant, which is the person alleged to have infringed the applicant's rights. The current law does not expressly provide for the possibility of requesting the application of an action measure against an intermediary who itself does not infringe the applicant's intellectual property rights but whose services are used for that purpose. This is particularly the case for online mediation through the use of various online platforms. That's just it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U141	Thank you, Minister. No questions for you. Marek Jürgenson, member of the Legal Affairs Committee, as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U142	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, On Monday, including 12 October, this draft law was discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Members of the committee Jaanus Karilaid, Marek Jürgenson, Kert Kingo, Toomas Kivimägi, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Heljo Pikhof, Urve Tiidus and Vilja Toomas participated. People from the Ministry of Justice were also invited. As here today, Minister Raivo Time gave us a good overview. After all, this is, in fact, a very narrow legislative proposal to speed up the protection of intellectual property so as not to have to wait for the final decision of the Court. To be quite honest, it did not go into a very heated debate in the Commission. There were questions about the violation of intellectual property rights in, for example, social media, etc. Kai Härmand and Gea Lepik, who came from the Ministry of Justice, gave very good examples and answers. There were also questions about how many civil disputes there are. All these questions were simpler to educate yourself quickly. It was therefore proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 22 October and that the first reading be closed. There were eight members: Marek Jürgenson, Jaanus Karilaid, Uno Kaskpeit, Kert Kingo, Toomas Kivimägi, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Heljo Pikhof and Urve Tiidus. Vilja Thomas remained neutral. It was also proposed to set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 5 November at 4 p.m., in this respect, the Commission was consensual and to appoint Mr Jürgenson as rapporteur, this decision was taken in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U143	Thank you, good waitress. No questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Would you like to negotiate? No, it's not. Then I'll also close them. The lead committee has proposed that the first reading of draft 231 be completed. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 5 November at 16 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U144	If we move forward at this extraordinary rate, perhaps we will be able to exhaust the second item as well. To this end, the first reading of the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act (terrestrial relations) initiated by the Government of the Republic is the first reading. I'd like the Minister of Justice, Raivo Aegis, to be here as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U145	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Legislation and regulations governing rental relationships have remained unchanged for almost 20 years. Meetings with stakeholders and studies commissioned have now been carried out, and a new draft amendment to the Law of Obligations Act has been prepared on the basis of all this, which is primarily aimed at regulating rental relationships. What are the basic things that this bill regulates? Firstly, in the case of a rental contract for a dwelling, the absolute prohibition of contractual penalty will be abolished. Secondly, the regulation on the cancellation of the lease due to default will be made more favourable to the lessor. Thirdly, the regulation of late payment is specified in the rental contracts for the dwelling. Fourthly, more extensive agreements will be allowed for the transfer of the so-called repair fund to the tenant. Next, in the case of a dwelling, it is also possible to agree that the tenant will return the matter in such a condition that the manifestation of wear or deterioration resulting from normal contractual use has been removed. Clearer regulation will be established to increase the rent in the case of a fixed-term contract and the basis for the unilateral increase of the rent of the lessor will be specified. And the last most important change is that certain changes are being made to the regulation of the right to cancel a rental contract in the event of a change of ownership, which is then a change of ownership during bankruptcy or enforcement proceedings. And, of course, [they] also apply to the sale of immovable property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U146	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you very much. I would like to ask Heljo Pikhof, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to act as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U147	Honourable Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The Committee on Legal Affairs dealt with the draft on Monday, including 12 October. All members of the Committee on Legal Affairs, as well as officials and guests from the respective Ministry, took part in the meeting. When it comes to the debate on the draft, it can be said that this draft was not particularly passionate. Some questions were asked, but we received exhaustive answers from the officials of the Ministry of Justice and the Minister. Everyone has the opportunity to propose amendments between the first and second readings. A number of decisions were taken by the Commission: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 20 October, to propose that the first reading be closed, to set the deadline of 5 November 2020 for amendments and to appoint Heljo Pikhof as rapporteur for the Commission. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-22_U148	Thank you. Looks like there's no questions for you either, good waitress. Would you like to negotiate? No, it's not. Then I won't open them. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 232. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 5 November at 16 a.m. With this, our agenda today has been exhausted. I thank everyone and the hearing is closed.
