ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13089	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to take the opportunity to congratulate all the ladies in parliament on March 8th as I wish to congratulate all citizens of Serbia, who are celebrating today on March 8th, with good luck. You've finally seen the law we've long been expecting, it's on the agenda. We have long discussed how these problems to solve and you have seen for yourself that previous governments have tried in a variety of ways to resolve the issue of legalisation and illegally built objects that Serbia has 1.3 million. We are the first country in Europe by illegal construction facilities. You have seen for yourself that these days the Constitutional Court, the legalisation that was currently in place, was adopted in 2009, by the previous government, that it was declared unconstitutional, so now in this period we do not have the opportunity to carry out any enrollment of objects that have been built throughout Serbia in this way. Recently, Europe has resolved the issue of a catastra with a single system and satellite that is installed to monitor Europe's cadastre, and we are a member of that system, we will have a unique cadastre throughout Europe. We with a million and 300 thousand unlisted objects in the immovableity cadastre cannot be in this system of benefits, any designer or any company in Europe who wants to get some information through a satellite that is installed in the Paris area and that monitors the entire system in Europe. So we have to do something about this. We've offered one law that will resolve this issue. This law can simply be attacked and criticised, but I would like all those who dispute something in any way in the law, try to bring amendments to the law, fix it, not say it's ideal, and put it in order as best, because we have to do something. Unfortunately, illegal buildings are being built today, although the construction is a crime. Today, a number of capital-value facilities are being built across Serbia, despite warnings from inspection services, despite records. We need to find a way to stop this wild construction, simply, and stop it. I need to tell you one truth. The previous government has started building an facility that has so far invested 180m euros, but without any paper, without any permission, without any study, without a revision commission, with nothing. Many who disputed this law these days participated in this illegal construction. Many who dispute some points of law today are building wildly, not to list objects, large capital facilities from infrastructures that cost hundreds of millions of euros. Does Serbia have the strength to stand in the way? What has been done and installed so far to register, official and start to build and work under the new planning law, which will come very quickly to this Parliament and which will provide that the building permit will be free of charge and that the cities and municipalities can only charge for what they invest in the infrastructure of these facilities. So far, it has been charged by some zones, by some criteria adopted, and so those who invested and built, simply had to pay millions of dollars without getting anything. Thus, a few years ago, a property tax was introduced, which taxes all listed objects and thus fills the budgets of municipalities and cities. So I ask you to accept this as the only solution at this point. It is true that many do not respond for the first time that they offer something to be free of charge, that for the first time they offer that one who separated from his mouth, from the mouth of his family, from his children who may not have seen the sea for ten years, let alone wintering or anything, invested in his facilities, today can book them in a cataster of immovableity without any compensation. Of course, he will pay his property tax on the facility and that will be the income of local authorities and will be all right. I accept your engagement, and I want to thank all the MPs who participated in the debate, primarily on the committees that were sitting and very seriously debated this issue. There have been committees that have been discussing this law for hours and have made observations that we have fully justified. The aim of these committees was to accept, behold, the four amendments that emerged from your discussions on committees and to improve the law. Yesterday's debates on committees have resulted in amendments that will accept that part of you that was the opposition of the MPs. We want all of us to find a way to enter objects together, which is what we're asked to do, and that we can no longer close our eyes to one truth that there is a Kaludjerica in Belgrade today, but there is no one in the cathedral. We can't close our eyes that the temple of St. Sava has a town pasture, and there's no more locations available. We can't say that there are farm surfaces on Santa's, and that's not true. We cannot say that Ovca and Borca do not exist and many settlements throughout Serbia. It is true that there were problems and good suggestions and remarks and we accepted it all. It is true that in the area of power lines of many objects are important, the object cannot be legalized, and we have accepted these amendments. It is also true that large objects, which were yesterday's remarks, which cross 300 squares in private property, cannot be accepted in this way but have to settle some obligations, because these objects are extremely large and considered a great luxury. It's true that there are huge business spaces, thousands of squares, and they can't be accepted, and that's what we've accepted as justifiable. Through the amendment, we've allowed it to be 100 square meters maximum for business facilities. These are craftsmanship, craft services, etc., what is necessary for a family to survive. Anything measured by thousands of squares has to enter normal regular procedures. There are too many facilities throughout Serbia, where the issue of property is not disputed, where the owners of the facilities made some contracts when they bought the plots 10, 20, 30 years, and 40 years ago have these contracts, but future heirs did not want to come to court, did not want to turn to confirm that these facilities could be registered and legalised. We can't wait, if one doesn't come, it can't be done. Many people live abroad and are not interested in coming. There are also those objects where the property is not solved, where it is controversial, where the property was social, and now municipal, city or other owner. These objects will not be entered in this way and will not acquire all rights like these objects where the property is undeniable, but will remain a note, will be entered, but that the property is not resolved. A period of two years will be given to resolve the property issue, and when the issue is resolved then the facility will be registered and entered according to a solution found, or a judicial solution or an out-of-pard settlement of parties that are in the dispute. We'll give, and you've seen that, the period in which the objections can be made and everything that is disputed will go into the process of resolution, and only then will it be verified. Many with whom we have spoken and who are in charge require that all objects be entered, but I repeat, it will be a note that the object is not regulated and that the issue of property is not resolved and that it cannot be alienated and that there is nothing to be done with it, that it is given, alienated, etc. until the issue of property is resolved. Also, the objects that go and be sold will have to settle all obligations that need to be settled, and the citizens will use them for life, they and their family members. However, if they enter the process of selling, then the issue must be regulated. All that you have suggested, here you have seen through these few amendments, we have accepted and we believe that it is good to improve the law and that one large part of the objects that can regularly be entered, but the problem is that their owners do not have the financial means to reconcile any obligation. People worked and built these facilities. Now they're out of work, out on the street. Maybe nobody works in that family and they can't pay any dues, as far as this legalization process is concerned. Also, everything submitted for the legalisation process will be immediately considered and will not have to be re-applyed. Therefore, we are in parliament today, in this debate, where we want to fix the amendments further if something can be fixed. You understand, we have to solve this issue, and every citizen who owns any property in this country has to be registered to him, and that's what we're asked to do. By doing so, we will increase the credit capacity of the state, as well as the citizen himself. Today I am here with you to talk about this very correctly, to agree, to finally resolve this issue, as much as possible, to enter a large part of the facility, to arrange for the Catastre of Serbia. You know that the World Bank has invested 30m euros in this project to resolve this issue, and we have not resolved it until today. They offer another programme and up to 60m euros to resolve the issue. The question of property will be settled this way, which you suggested yesterday on the board. We fixed the law in that sense. What is undeniable, I repeat, will be recorded. What is controversial is given a two-year period to resolve. Every object must have its owner and everything that is disputed, we will solve it together. Not to hold you back, not to take up your time, I hope that we can work together properly, through a proper discussion that will be held today, to make this bill the most of it, to bring it into order, and to adopt it together. I hope by this act of ours we will delight at least a million Serbian citizens who have been waiting for this for years. You know that many projects are now being entered, energy efficiency. Not all objects can receive funds, nor succumb to it unless they are entered in the immovableity cadastre. A series of projects that are today to improve the standard of our citizens, to improve the standard of each family, cannot be implemented due to enrollment in the immovableity cadastre. So please help make this law as good as possible, to bring it together. If anyone has any concrete suggestions, let them give it away. We'll consider, whatever's justified, we'll adopt. Let's not just say: nothing is wrong. The worst part is that we have a million and 300 thousand objects listed in the immobilization cadastre, and the worst part is that we have a huge property that's a minority of nobody's. Another important observation from the board, all citizens who did not regulate the issue of property and their facilities, that was your proposal yesterday, will not be able to influence the facilities in the environment, to give some consent if they themselves are not regular. And we'll take that question and put it into the law. No one can decide on a neighbor's facility if the issue of his facility is not regular and the issue of property. We've accepted that, and we think that's okay. If someone regularly builds with a building permit and one who doesn't have regular papers, he puts a ban on a neighbor that he can't build or something's wrong, etc., and he's not regular and it's not right. Thank you, and I hope that we will debate correctly, agree and make one, not to say a good law, but a solid law that will help us to come to this Parliament very quickly, the law on legalisation that is being prepared and which will be a special law and that we also adopt it, and then we will permanently resolve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13090	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13091	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, the respected citizens of Serbia, today is an extremely important day for many citizens in Serbia who expect the adoption and adoption of this law. I think that never one law had this much interest among the citizens of Serbia and in the large number of contacts that we had in this period when the law was announced, it is precisely a great expectation and now that we are passing this law, we need to point out some things that make the citizens of Serbia, which makes the law more and more understood. I think the legislative proposal, with certain changes to be made, is extremely good and will be accepted in this House. At yesterday's session of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, it was an extremely good debate, extremely correct. The arguments have been exchanged from all sides. What was being implemented was that, practically, both from the position and from the opposition, all of them were unique that one law should be passed, but there were certain objections, to which we, like the MP group of the NS and other parliamentary groups, reacted according to what the minister said the law was still slightly improved and to be in line with all the legal regulations and the Constitution of Serbia. Why was this law so important? In a few sentences, I will say that the Republic Geodetic Institute, as a competent authority, has so far registered up to 1,300 buildings on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, for which no construction or use of the permit has been issued. According to data obtained from units of local self-government, as well as other authorities responsible for issuing subsequent construction and use permits, around 700,000 legalisation applications have been submitted since 11 March 2010. The current Law on Planning and Construction prescribes that date as the deadline for submitting legalisation applications. The elemental calculation shows that more than half a million immovable property owners in the Republic of Serbia did not exercise their right under that law and did not enter into the legalisation process of illegally built buildings, and the above-mentioned deadline has long expired. Given the alarming data mentioned above, it is unequivocally concluded that the retention of such a legal undefined situation in this area is simply inadmissible for an indefinite period of time. I believe that for the reason of fundamental legal certainty in immovableity, the adoption of such a special law is necessary. There is no other way to overcome the situation on the ground and once and for all put order into this area. The Republic of Serbia claims that in the eyes of the international public, and thus also to potential foreign investors, it finally declares itself a serious state, and there is no serious state without the regulation of public books. Therefore, the importance of enrolling property rights on illegally built buildings is undeniable, both for the owners of these facilities themselves and for the Republic of Serbia. That's exactly what I've stated, the reason for passing a law like this. There have been countless attempts to bring order into this area. Of course, there have been these and these kinds of attempts, but it's never been brought to an end. This is one, practically perhaps the last moment to seduce order, because Serbia is awaiting many important situations and EU entry implies, among other things, that something like this is legally regulated. That's why I'm sure, and I also said that yesterday's committee held an opinion among those who are in opposition, that this should be regulated and that, of course, with some amendments in Article 1, which we will later mention in the principle discussion, in Article 11, in Articles 13 and 4, I apologize for skipping Article 4. With these amendments and the precision and regulation of the law, I'm sure many will support this law. I thank the Minister and the Government for putting such a legislative proposal before parliament, and I am sure that Serbia's citizens will benefit most from this, that this is one real, life law and I ask Parliament and all MPs to support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13092	The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13093	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we have before us a draft law on special conditions for the entry of property rights on buildings built without a building permit, or rather, a miracle unseen by the bill, since no country in Europe nor in the environment has this kind of regulation, yet it is required that it be adopted by an urgent procedure. The minister has asked for help from all of us. I will give it immediately, in the light of criticism of what needs to be changed urgently in this bill. I'm sure you didn't write a bill like this, but whoever wrote it obviously and clearly his ignorance, or at writing a bill like this, tried to learn. Unfortunately, completely illiterate and without knowing the meaning of this matter. Obviously, it's being handled according to that maximum, so the paper doesn't blush with shame because he's suffering everything. If you've already seriously wanted to deal with this matter, then you've been able to consult people who deal with this area. Let's say Mr. Dusica Birovljevic, or Dr. Zoran Birovljevic, who in his description have a bunch of scientific papers done and who would make a huge contribution, just when it comes to solving this legal issue. Although the current Law on Planning and Construction is very bad, of course, with a number of shortcomings that the international community has pointed to, it should not have been working on adopting such a single bill, but should have been working on one step in preparing the whole set of laws, which will be in accordance with the law and which will particularly regulate the area of both planning and construction, as well as building land. Such a bill aims to enable the entry of property rights on buildings built without a building permit, thus allowing the owners of illegally built objects, which are at last, which were only missing, to be able to exercise some other rights which exist, in such a way as to be rather hidden from such a proposal of the law. In fact, if this kind of legalization is done by those who don't have a roof over their heads, and I doubt that's the intention of the one who wrote this bill, then I don't know why there's any mention of the traffic of immobility. It should not be forgotten that illegal objects cannot be subject to regulation of energy recovery, nor should concerns be forgotten about the fact that the current law enables owners of registered objects to further invest in their facilities – for example, when it comes to adaptation, reconstruction, recovery, etc., until illegal objects are allowed to do so. In this way, owners of illegally built facilities would significantly increase the market value of these facilities. We would be, referring to a bill like this, which I hope will not be adopted, fully legally protected, would be able to initiate the legalisation process of the facilities, obtaining a building permit, or obtaining a valid permit, all in accordance with one of these laws. I don't understand who's forbidding them to legalize their facilities by now, just by the rules in force? Minister Ilic, this country also remembers some better laws, during which there was no such expansion of illegal or wild construction, and today it is actually rare for anyone to build legally. This bill introduces us to another newspaper, and that's the category of so-called. Catastrian political legalisation, where one solution, in fact, with registered ownership of the facility, will make the construction of the plots under the facility. The land will not pay, while enrollment in the cadastre will cost them about 100 euros per object, according to the bill. The adoption of this bill would produce inconceivable legal consequences for all future generations in this country. I must remind you that in ancient 2004, Serbia signed a Vienna Declaration on informal settlements, which was agreed to regulate the very problem of these settlements, and so far, absolutely no visible results have been observed, or anything in this matter. I think it's a threefold intention, not you, but the one who sent you today to defend what is indefensible, which would be achieved by the express adoption of this bill. It does not lie that you are concerned that according to the data provided by the Republic Geodetic Institute today there are around 1,300,000 in the territory of the Republic of Serbia for which no building permit has been issued, or a valid permit has been issued, because nearly 700,000 legalisation applications have been filed to date, which means that there are around 500,000 owners who have not used their legal right to this day. It's obvious here that the creator of this law is only interested in two benefits. The first is a huge financial benefit, which would be achieved at the moment when, for example, those 500,000 owners of illegal objects would be paid to the state through various fees and compensations according to those 100 euros listed in this bill, and we know from experience that it is not 100 euros but several times higher, so it would actually represent several hundred million euros of new taxes per citizen of the state. Secondly, Mr. Minister, political points are beyond the need of a state where over a million people are out of work, but in a bill like this, we need to get rid of everything that has to do with politics. In return, with one bill like this, Serbian citizens get nothing but one big scam and one empty story. Because, in the past 10 years, when the legalization process of illegally built objects has absolutely not yielded any single result, then the submission of such a bill is just proof of it. If anything had been done in the past 10 years, this law would not have been found in the congregation procedure, especially it would not have been found today or ever in the congregation procedure, for at least it offends common sense, at least the common sense of those who understand themselves in the right way. More than an amateur approach is visible in solving this problem. I'm going to bring you these problems, and you're going to take it as my well-intentioned criticism, that's how I help you make this law as good as possible. First, the claim that the banks for the buildings for which the catastra is recorded as being registered under the law will give loans and the mortgages will not be correct, because the banks have already clearly and loudly denied it. Secondly, this bill carries numerous risks to corruption that you must take into account. Since the conflict of certain provisions of the law, individual legal gaps, ambiguous administrative procedures, through the use of different terms for the same phenomenon, until the invention of a term that is not clear to anyone, until the introduction of some new terms, whose meaning so far has never been defined. Thirdly, although the main objective is to regulate the registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit, it is played out by the fact that certain provisions of the law are regulated and the registration of property rights on building land, and the registration of property rights on construction land is not listed in this bill at all as the subject of the law, nor can it be the subject of the law. The provisions of this law stipulate that the right to enter property on a building land is permitted in favour of the owner of the illegally built buildings, if the building facility is illegally built on the building land that is owned, or on which the right to use for the benefit of third parties is entered. Article 4 says those third parties are a natural or legal person, a unit of local self-government, an autonomous province or a Republic of Serbia, and thereby endangering third party rights and promoting exclusively private interests instead of public interests. This law allows under special conditions, I do not know what conditions, nor does anyone know what special conditions these are, the registration of property rights and those facilities on the surfaces of public purposes. It's legally inadmissible, so if you want it to be legal violence. The sixth, this bill, therefore, only in this country, a country called Serbia, absolutely nowhere else on the entire globe of the Earth, allows, as one proof of the conditions for enrolment of property rights on an illegally built facility, to be proof of paid bills for electricity or for utility services, etc. And what's in force, exactly the Law of State and the Cataster, is not allowed, nor does that law allow it, so obviously nothing. They're going to derogate that law, too, because this is the bill you're derogating and a lot of things, but it's no wonder again. It's legally inadmissible again, and I'm going to repeat the enormous legal ignorance. Seven, if such a law, although such a bill lays down certain obligations of the authorities responsible for urban affairs, no procedure has been laid down for them, as well as criteria for decision-making by those authorities. Eight, the bill does not strictly state that the entered objects will not be destroyed, because according to the provisions of the applicable Law on Planning and Construction and its deadlines, which are valid until 6 June of this year, and because of the Constitutional Court's decision, which I believe you know, those who have failed to complete the request within 60 days, from the day when the competent authority asked them to do so, it was obliged to reject this request, which further gives the right to the inspection to adopt a solution precisely on the destruction of these objects. The creators, of course, are writers like this, I have to say the superlative bill, say that something like that, by the wording, implies, that this meaning and that definition, too, is absolutely no law in the world, and neither does it in our country. Nine, I don't understand why it is necessary, except for the cover-up of work so far, for this law to be passed by emergency procedure, and as indicated in order to prevent the occurrence of harmful consequences for citizens and businesses. I think it is exactly the opposite and that this bill will only cause inconceivable damage, both for the citizens of Serbia and for the economy. Namely, Mr. Minister, order cannot be established by disorder. It seems to you, perhaps, that with one bill of law, you will facilitate legalization, but this law, you must be sure, will bring one complete mess into the system. A huge number of people will abuse the rights allowed by such a bill. Landowners, property owners, will become those who have no right to do so. The number of lawsuits will overload our courts, which are in total collapse anyway, not only on the receipt of the lawsuit, but on everything. Of course, that number of lawsuits will keep increasing, in two years, there will be even more problems than that, everyone will sue, everyone will apply for temporary measures, and as long as it lasts, no one will be able to legalize anything at all. I repeat, order cannot be established by disorder. Dear Ministers, the land system, the catastrian system, the urban system is even bigger than the judicial system. That judicial system, we've been seeing for a while now, we can look back, it's trying to change in one day. He didn't give any results at all. You saw, I saw, we saw everyone and we saw what it looked like and what the consequences were. I don't think you should have too much hope that this quick-track reform attempt will go differently. Also, I've already noted that I'm almost certain that you haven't written anything like this, but to those who wrote, it's a shame for them to send you here today as an authorized promoter to publicly embarrass yourselves in front of us, trying to defend what's undefenseful. Of course, she would be pleased that this law, at least not in this form and not in this way, was never found in the congregation procedure, because for such a thing it was not meant to be found, and not to be blushed today, as the citizens of Serbia, who understand themselves in this matter, because of the total ignorance of its creators. After all, when sometimes I don't know something, it's no shame not to know, I ask. The same could be asked by those who made the law and who sent you today to embarrass you precisely for their shame. In the end, I'm glad you've congratulated the 8th of March as a gentleman. I hope that today with special attention you will hear what all women have to say on this subject, that you will not contradict them much and that you will respect all our criticisms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13094	The word has been given to the People's MP, Slobodan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13095	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to join the President-in-Office and the Minister-in-Office, and I would like to congratulate all women on March 8th, and especially on the ladies who sit here and follow this course and actively participate in this session, so they spend the day working. The law on special conditions for the entry of property rights on buildings built without a building permit is a crown or roof law. He's the first, and in this case, Lex specialis, on him will be continued law on legalization. That's two laws. The legalization bill will come out in June and I'll talk about it later on in the second part. Now I'm going to move on to this law that we're now adopting. We think this is the first step towards simplifying the legalisation process, but also creating a more efficient investment environment. That's very important to us, this first sentence. In any case, it is not enough and should already have a vision of how legalization ends up. We have more of these options here, so we will constructively engage in solving this, because we have until June for this second law. The constitutional principle of equality of citizens should be taken into account. There must be no public impression that the legalization of objects is at stake. This is a very important sentence because there's confusion between us. The Anti-Corruption Agency has given a number of essential, formal but anti-corruption objections to the draft law. The promoter has made a great effort to avoid such opportunities in the law, first of all, from an asset aspect. In this respect, the law provides for measures to protect third parties and the right to compensation processed in Article 11. It should always be taken into account also the Law on the Preference and the Catastrophe. The Regulation should define the exact instructions for enrolment in the immovableity catalogue, in order to avoid any delay in the procedure due to the different interpretation of the administration of the enrolment authority. The legislator shall take into account the restrictions that define urbanism, Article 1, and the restrictions laid down in the conversion provision, Article 3(2) and Article 4(4). Payment of compensation for the construction land supply remains the obligation of the owner and will be subsequently regulated in the next legalisation law. The tax on property as a compensation to the State remains an obligation for registered illegal facilities. After a reasonable deadline to announce higher taxes for the property of illegal objects, to stimulate everyone to enter the procedure, the final legalisation procedure. The general and social interest is fast in the book of collective stable facilities and apartments. This applies to objects built on permits. Inhabited apartments have been sold or bought and are paid a tax on the sales of absolute rights. The tax on property and bills is also paid, what the colleague amounted to – electricity, water, sewerage, telephone, etc. The law also provides for the registration of property rights of these properties, which is regulated by Article 6. The efficiency and avoidance of excessive administration is seen as being considered sufficient in this procedure by the application for legalisation because they are more detailed than is required under this law. The rapid effects that are now being achieved by us. Discussing the rights and obligations of all participants in the proceedings avoid arbitration, avoid courts, avoid long litigation, simplify the administration of procedures and reduce the necessary documentation. Now I'm going to say a few words about the Law on Legalization. The legalisation of buildings built without a building permit must regulate an illegal shop, provide funds for building land, ensure equality of all citizens, protection of public interests, and also address this social problem. The law on the legalization of illegally built objects must be special. Part of the state administration involved in legalisation must have special training in the application of the Law on Legalisation, with an emphasis on efficiency and pragmaticity. And the right to a correct mistake must exist. The courts of this case should assign specialists to this area for efficiency, because it itself is specific. Untimely adoption of planning documents and non-compliance with legal deadlines prompted wild construction. Further prevention of wild construction should be speeded up by introducing temporary measures into local self-government that do not control wild construction and sanctions against all parts of the state administration, which harm the state by their inaction. There is also a need for reform of the administration. Experiences from previous practice, current proposals under this law and the use of the possibility of conqualification of private contracts which are not certified in court should be translated into property part of the Law on Legalisation. Then it is necessary to educate the work of the state administration in order to conduct property procedures more effectively and coherently. The legislator must find a modus with local self-government in order to establish and implement the building land supply fee according to the same principles, taking into account whether or not urban plans were at the site in question. Where there were urban plans, there should be no discount for individual construction. Also, a discount should not be granted for commercial housing and business facilities. For individual residential construction where there were no urban plans, a discount should be calculated from the regular fixed price. The reason for this is a solution to the investor's housing issue, to pay taxes on embedded materials and often to participate in the construction of secondary infrastructure networks and roads. Taking into account population standards, make payments up to 20 years old. All practice so far needs to be seen by a new law, Lex specialis, this is the second one that we propose, this law on legalisation that should come out by June, which refers only to the legalization of lawlessly built objects, to regulate this area, but not to be confronted with the highest legal acts of this country. We believe that this first law, which we are discussing today, needs to create conditions for it to be completed by June of the month, or a new law on complete legalisation, where everything will be fully completed and brought to world norms. This first law, the Law on special conditions for enrolment of property rights, must be the first and initial step to give its first effects and to teach our citizens to respect laws, not just citizens, but units of local self-government, that we all behave responsibly. I claim this law has a chance and the PUPS will vote to pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13096	The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13097	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, the Honorable Representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, firstly, I would like to join those who have congratulated the International Women's Day today and I would like to thank those who have congratulated us on this very important holiday for women. I would like to remind you all, if it hadn't been for a woman 100 years ago, brave women fighting for the rights and equality of sex, we wouldn't be sitting here today in this House, we wouldn't have the right to go to the polls, we wouldn't have the right to be candidates and elected and we wouldn't be able to sit in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So it is very important that we mark this day in this sense, first of all, to highlight one solidarity with all women, and especially those women who have made a career, who have in some way achieved some success in life, to bear in mind that there are many dissuaded women, that there are very many women who need help, who need encouragement, who need little to achieve also in their careers and in their lives. Let's get back to the agenda. Mr. Minister, I have listened very carefully to your presentation that you have presented this law and defended all these provisions that make up the content of the bill. First of all, I realized that the fundamental intensity of the legislator is to introduce a single order into the chaotic state of illegally built objects, you listed the number - million and 300 thousand objects. It's a really startling number and it's a very big burden for this legal system and even for the traffic of immovableity. That's where I'd agree with you. However, when we read the explanation that exists in this bill, it is as follows. I'm just going to quote one sentence that's very important. It says – namely, the proposed legal solutions create conditions for the registration of property rights of illegally built objects, and thus legal certainty in possible traffic, the provision of mortgage loans and the like. So, how did you actually predict that you would neutralize first and foremost lawlessness? That's very important. If something is illegal, it simply requires some conditions to be met in order to eliminate this lawlessness. In the bill of law, I have found really no solution that introduces legal certainty by sort of legalizing and introducing it into legal flows. That's just not true. You've said one crucial thing here, which is that whoever built it illegally, who doesn't have a building permit, shouldn't even have civil rights. Because unless he has a building permit, he has no right to react in any way if his right to property is compromised by someone else who has that building permit. So it simply opposes the basic principles of the Constitution. So it is really inadmissible to define the law in this way, that the lack of a building permit automatically leads to the endangerment of the civil rights of that person who does not have a building permit. In the title of the law, you pointed out that this is about special conditions for enrolling property rights on buildings built without a building permit. So you could actually call this law legalization for 100 euros, because that's how you propagated this law. So legalisation for small money and will be forgiven for what they did not do according to Serbia's positive regulations, they will simply become the owners of these illegally built objects. That's not true. This law will not result. It would be good to explain to the citizens that this is about an apparent intention to legalise facilities in favour of those citizens who have not previously obtained building permits. Why? You've had records of the owners in the cadastres so far, and you've had records of the actual state. Your physical state is that when someone built an object, illegally built it, but did not simply legalize it, in terms of obtaining a building permit, using permits and entering property rights, which he could have done if the object pointed out. That could have been done by now. But what's the problem? The problem is that you have clearly once promised, perhaps several times, that everything that is chaotic, which is anarchical, in the domain of built and illegalized objects, will be introduced into legal flows, without effort, without costing anyone who has not previously tried to obtain certain permits, to which they were bound by the laws. So this is political law. This law is also for one-time use, as is the case with many of the laws that we are discussing here today. This was also the case with the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, this was also the case with the Law on Amnesty, and this was also the case with the law that delegated the provisions of the Law on Expropriation, here is the Law on Registration, which was the subject of this Assembly last week. So, in fact, it just continues to continually collapse the legal order, collapse of legal certainty. With this law, there is no legal certainty. The Anti-Corruption Agency has made some remarks. We really agree with these remarks and agree that there is too much space left for the abuse of discretionary rights, that there is no specific procedure needed for such serious matter, that there is a lot of inaccuracies, that there are no clearly defined categories that would be, in fact, the essence of this law. Unfortunately, however, the Anti-Corruption Agency was somehow kept only on the first member of the Law, completely failing to comment on the other members, as well as on the other members of the Law, and there are 13 others, besides this one, also a source of possible corruption, and not a small volume. Let's start with Article 2, let's continue with Articles 3 and 4. It's very important that you here, for example, predict the conversion and land rights, although the Law on Planning and Construction clearly states how conversion can be done, and you simply in a package of legalization, to use your term, the objects built on that land allow conversion. So it's in direct contrast to another applicable law. You here, if this is about building on other people's land, you allow property rights to be proven by some of the payments, recognitions of paid utility services, paid electricity and the like, that's, how do I explain to you, legal nonsensor. This is not done in serious countries that want to have a serious and strong legal system and legal order. You here really predicted solving a situation that had arisen for many years, and it hadn't been created in a year, it existed at that time when you, Mr. Minister, were part of the government. It must be 10, 20, maybe more years. You cannot, on the basis of a law of this kind with 14 members, which is directly contrary to the Law on Fundamental Property and Legal Relations, to the Law on Transport of Immobility, with basic constitutional principles, to correct the whole, nor can you even change any part of that chaos. It would really be necessary for this government to get serious, and when you propose laws, make sure you have to think about what you want with this law, what you can do with this law, what you can do with this law, what you can do with this law. You really need to think about your politics. Is it such a policy that with one demagogue story, a law that simply cannot be realised in practice, you achieve certain political points without being interested in the chaos that will arise if this law really applies? You can't have one chaos, one lawlessness, to solve legal nonsensions, some solutions that will open up new problems. You can't single-handedly open up such opportunities for corruption, because every discretionary right, every lack of procedure, every vagueness and indetermination, in fact, represents the possibility that this corruption, in fact, happens. If, as a government, as this government, you have serious intentions to stop corruption, to stop organised crime, if you really think about improving the construction industry, if you really want to invest, pull this law out of the process. This law not to attract investors, but only to reject them, because every serious investor, every serious bank will well consider whether it will enter any legal procedure, into any business with one that will show him a list of immovableities in which to write, among other things, and that the facility is not legalised. You know, serious legal systems respect laws. In serious legal systems, tax evasion, non-payment, non-payment of certain obligations, such as payment of a building permit and use of a permit, poses serious doubts about the seriousness of one who did not actually respect the law. There is no honesty, no seriousness, if someone really thinks that such a law will exercise certain privileges, compared to all those other citizens who have respected the laws. So, what tomorrow is going to be the one who allegedly legalized his object this way to think if he wants to continue to adapt his illegal object. They will say, "If I could do it for the first time, why should I not do it for the second and third time?" It is simply one message to all future builders of illegal objects. It's that once you open that panda's box of illegality and let something that can't be solved in this way, you actually made it possible for everything to be expected in the future. You could have solved the issue of 1,300,000 illegal objects in some other way. You could simplify the procedure, you could provide people with building permits and all other permits and use them among other things, then the exercise of ownership rights, can come true at far more favourable conditions and at lower prices. You have today said one thing that municipalities must not and have no right to gain far more than what they have invested to bring this land into the cause. Then how will you determine the cost of such a municipality? How do you mean to determine that? It's one story, one story without a base and no base in some rational approach to legalization of illegally built objects. There's something else I need to tell you. So, in the catastro, you could have registered prominent construction facilities so far. You will now do the same with this law. You will have a note that the one who entered the property did not pay all those obligations that are required to obtain a building permit or a useful permit. What exactly did you change the position of these owners of illegally built objects? Nothing. So legalisation for 100 euros, it's actually just one story that many people would hope to enter, collect somehow those 100 euros and expect to complete their ownership rights records. It's not true, and that's why I'm asking you one more time, it would be best if you withdraw this law from the procedure. We wrote a few amendments. It's just that this law can't be improved, but we had this obligation to show that it is, we think we need some things to change, but not in this way that you suggested by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13098	The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13099	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say this is an extremely important topic, and I can't say it's an important law, but the subject is extremely important. Of course, I fully agree with Mr. Minister that it is best to say that nothing is right and to realize that there is nothing wrong with accepting that finding as a solution. This is just one problem that we have been accessing for years in the same way and this problem has grown year after year. I'm not going to say anything is wrong, but I'm going to suggest certain concrete solutions. For the past 15 or 16 years, it is difficult to count how many times the problem of illegal construction has been solved, from Minister Ivkovic and 1997 when a special law was first passed, then in 2003, then 2005, then 2009, then in 2011. What is common to all these laws, which is that they are proposed, are in congregation debates where it is said that the procedures will be improved, how the procedures will be simplified, how they will finally be removed from the agenda from the problem of illegal construction, and each of these laws has actually moved the border until objects that can be legalized have been built. After each of these laws, the number of illegal buildings built was only greater. This latest law, including the one we are discussing today, introduces September 11th 2009. It is common knowledge that, since 11 September 2009, illegal buildings have been built, built and state-owned, built by individuals. What's going to happen to these objects that are some kind of legal void? Does this mean that they won't be able to legalize themselves or that some new law is waiting for us to predict the period from 2009 to 2013. It is estimated that there are 1,300,000 illegally built objects in Serbia, I don't know if it means 2009 or 2013. I tried at the Bureau of Statistics to find out how many total facilities there are in Serbia. I know how many people Serbia has, and it makes sense to me that not every resident has some kind of facility, whether public or private, but it turns out that at least a third or a quarter of the buildings in Serbia were built without a building permit. If we're going to be honest, if we're going to solve the problem, then we need to see what's causing it and how that problem ever happened. The procedures are very complicated and expensive. In addition to the promise that procedures would be simplified, every new law has introduced new procedures. This new law that was discussed yesterday will introduce some new procedures. I don't think it's necessary to introduce energy efficiency into Serbia, but we need to be aware that every new law introduces a new obligation, some new paper and some new part of the elaborate, and it doesn't simplify things. The second thing, the inadequacy of the state authorities to solve the problem. Unprepared inspection to respond the moment the object occurs. If we leave the Assembly, it is in downtown Belgrade, within a few hundred meters we will find objects that are still being built today. The big question is whether they're building with or without a building permit. What is a fact is that once construction inspectors spent hours and days in the field, they spend today in offices. From the office to determine what's being built with permission and what's not, it's just not possible. Disrespect of the law. I have to remind you that since 2003 it's been a felony and joining every building without a building permit to infrastructure installations, so, heating, electricity, phone and whatever we have. No one can do that individually. That's what some parts of the state do. How is it possible that no one in the state is responsible for all these facilities, and who knows how many hundreds of thousands of them have been there since 2003, are connected to the installation. So, that EPS, Telecom and all those other state bodies, heat and everyone else have completely ignored the criminal provision in the law that existed. Another thing, in addition to expensive and tiring procedures, the general poverty that exists in Serbia is one of the reasons for this problem. If a building permit is expensive someone who collects a little money will try to build a wall, they won't be going to get the procedure. Of course, that is not an excuse and it is always the easiest to say – there is no excuse for it. That's quite true, but if it's 100% true, then today we wouldn't even be discussing it, but we'd be discussing it some other time. What's the solution? The fellow who spoke before me is not here. First of all, I don't think this is a roof law. It's not a roof law in any way. The under-law can only be the Law on Planning and Construction that defines the procedure for obtaining a building permit. I think even when a patient goes to the doctor, he tries to stop the spread of the disease first, and only then cures what the patient came for. Our task was, and I told you a few months ago when we had a similar law in the procedure, our task was that an emergency 1.300.00 illegally raised objects, buildings without a building permit, and we can't solve that problem in one day since it didn't even come into existence in one day. It came about 50 years ago in Serbia. But our task is to prevent the inflow of new objects without a building permit. It is incomprehensible to me that there is a special chapter or several members in the law that do not refer to buildings built by public means, by the means of the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, local self-government where the law explicitly says that in Serbia or the state does not respect its own laws, and expects citizens to do so, as if the state is privileged to the citizens. The first step was to pass a new law that would regulate this matter in a different way. To disable or stop new objects without a building permit, and then try to solve the object problem without permission. As I've already said, several categories of objects need to be separated. One public building is made of public funds. Other objects are made for the market, someone made them to make some money, and it's okay to make money, but first they need to get permission and the third ones are housing facilities. They're legally identical, but there's some finesse, there's some difference if we're seriously looking at things. We have to realize that the Law on Planning and Construction is bad and until we pass a new law we will not solve the problem, but we will only move this border from 2009 to 2013, from 2013 to a new year, and the number of objects will only increase. If we're looking at a permit procedure right now, she's got a few phases. First, it has to be if we observe legal procedure, you have to own the country you're building on, you have to get the building permit that was obtained on the basis of a project done with all the necessary installations. When you have a building permit when you build an object, you again turn to the state to use the permit and with all these parameters using the permission you become the owner and the object. It's some kind of legal procedure and a regular move schedule. Why does it matter? Well, if we're trying to skip any of these steps, then we can make a serious failure. It was an idea for objects to be legalized without a project. First, the procedure for obtaining the applicable permit and building permits implies that the state guarantees that these facilities are in every sense safe for housing and construction and for electrical and any other installation. There's no engineer, as far as I know, only a superman has X-ray vision, but there's no construction engineer who can reconstruct the armatures that exist in a particular facility, by coming into the facility and looking, you can see for sure you can see that something's wrong, but you can never guarantee that everything is okay. As there is no electric engineer that can determine exactly what cables are found in the wall based on the view. If you give the facility a useful permit, then the insurance company can secure the facility for all cases that can occur, and there can be a lot of different things. Therefore, the use of permission and guaranteeing the safety and safety of the facility is not as simple a matter as it seems. One photograph can't determine that. So for a large number of objects it's very difficult to guarantee that they are done according to standards, because it's physically not possible if we want to comply with millions of regulations. Realising ownership of an object is relatively easy. But how property on the facility can implicate property and land. Well, not really. If we talk about foreign investors and legal certainty, foreign investors will always come to a country that guarantees security, primarily property. And property is guaranteed with us and the Constitution. Only in the public interest can you alienate some property by uncontestingly establishing public interest under the law. I agree that it's a serious state problem if you have a million and 300,000 objects and their legal status is not resolved. But it's hardly a public interest to be that someone on your land built their own facility and it's becoming a public interest and he has the right to become the owner of that country. The problem of property relations is 50% of the cases, and in 50% of the cases, it is very difficult to carry out this procedure because property relations have not been solved. One very important thing, too. If we had talked about this law a few months ago, maybe five, six months ago, I had different ideas since I had a chance to work at the ministry to solve the problem, I had different ideas so this problem could be solved. If the law had been in the process in November, I had a number of ideas so we could solve this problem. Today, however, the situation has changed significantly. How important is it changed? Well, by launching proceedings before the Constitutional Court by the City of Cačak or the Administration of Urbanism, so the Guardian of Citizens initiated proceedings before the Constitutional Court, so the Constitutional Court decided that all provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction which regulate this issue were unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court has postponed the application of the law, namely the publication of a decision by six months, but the decision exists. On the 19 densely typed sides is the most judicial instance, the highest instance in Serbia has said what it thinks about the problem and whether my ideas are good or bad, it doesn't matter anymore. We have something that in the next few months when it is announced will become part of our legal system and this decision of the Constitutional Court in all the positive and negative sides it carries with it in a significantly different way or points to solving the problem of illegally built objects. The Constitutional Court unequivocally says that citizens cannot be brought into an unequal position, estimating everything I've been talking about since the start of the debate, but says that if there are certain fees, it is not possible for individual citizens, because they did not comply with the law, with the justification for why they might have done so, but they have to pay for everything that all others who have regularly received a building permit have paid. I fully agree with you that, a fee for building land, or whatever it is called, municipal equipment or anything else, in the way it works in Serbia, does not apply to any of the locations in question, it can be called conditionally – a tax for new construction. You have areas of the city that are divided, in a given zone is the same price, you pay that money, it goes into a fund, then on the basis of the decision of the City of the Management Board Assembly, this Construction Directorate, or whatever the wall is called, all the necessary facilities. You are not paying compensation for your specific location, but you are investing in a fund from which everything that a city needs is built. And it's kind of a tax. It may be a high fee, but the constitutional court is completely unequivocal and indicates that anyone who wants to get a regular permit, who wants to get even with other citizens, has to go through the same procedure. Another thing that is still more important, the Constitutional Court annulled all decisions concerning co-ownership on parcels and the possibility that if the facility was built, and there were two owners, so one owner might have known that this other wall and did not react, it is considered to be an organisation consent. The Constitutional Court has said that such a thing is out of the question, even on co-ownership, not on foreign property over the land. I agree with you that this is a fundamental problem in the legalization process. Most owners have a problem with the first piece of property evidence. There are numerous private documents, since the traffic of rights of use was not allowed and citizens have private documents to prove they are owners. In the meantime, several owners have changed and it is very difficult if we do not pass the proper law to introduce them into the legal system. But ownership of the facility can create a number of problems if we draw a conclusion from the property of a parcel. Examples work, property of land beneath the building, and the object has a surface of 100 squares, that's some number that's often mentioned. What if the plot is five times or ten times bigger? You are then the owner of that one-tenth, and those nine-tenths are the owner of someone else and you are using it. And who knows what can come out of practice, I find it hard to assume. What do I think is the solution? As the Constitutional Court found, it is completely irrational and it is not realistic to establish that millions and 300 objects will collapse and it is very expensive. It's practically impossible to implement. That's what the Constitutional Court claims, and that's what it says in the Constitutional Court's decision. I think the first step, not to pass a special law that de facto doesn't regulate the question of legalization, this is completely wrong to say that this is a law on legalization, it's not a law on legalization. This is the law on enrolment of property rights. Most of the cathedrals in Serbia entered property rights on buildings without a building permit and it was not at all a condition for the facility to be entered. The first step is, Mr. Minister, and here we offer you full assistance to pass a good law on planning and construction, a law that will create conditions that we no longer have new objects without a building permit. It's the first step that needs to stop that problem. That law requires us to define exactly the role of RGZ. Catastran is a state matter and it's not an individual and every serious state is trying to have a good cadastre. The RGZ is a budgetary institution and many things must be done on the basis of the funds it receives from the budget. Individuals can't initiate the formation of a state cadastre. If you have online and Google maps that show pretty well every object in Serbia and that are completely free, and I can only imagine what pictures of military satellites look like and how quickly one such map can be digitized and turned into a very simple thing. In cities like Belgrade, I think in seven days, a good computer expert can set up an immovableity cadasar with Infostan payments and a unified solution, we can do this thing, if we have a good will, we can finish in a month, make an accurate record, see what the status is, and put those documents down. Let the state do its job, and then we'll solve the problem with individuals, see if it can still remain this status of compensation, or we'll solve this problem differently and no one gets hurt. It's my only time. Ad hoc solutions I'm afraid we'll make a lot of new problems. Of course, first row will fit all those who have residential facilities and who have built for the market that they will very easily hire a lawyer and based on this and similar laws will first solve their problem. Such a law as none of the previous ones has solved the problem of Kaludierica, it will not solve this one either, because the one who built the apartment won't think of taking the mortgage or if he pays the info and everything else, whether or not it's registered, he won't see his own interest at the moment. To finish, I think the first step is to pass a system law. I don't think there's anyone in this room who doesn't intend to help you solve this problem in quality for all time, and only after that, will we be able to solve it for 50 years, so it will be a good thing and a good basis for all of us, and expect that the problem has arised or an attempt to solve the problem that has arisen for 50 or 60 years will probably end as all previous attempts. I'm sure this time will be different, but only if we change the order of moves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13100	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students of the Faculty of Law and the European Association of Law Students, who are currently following a part of today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall. Marina Čapkunović, Mona Bogdanović, Maja Zdravković, Jelena Manojlović, Milica Mudrić, Jelena Korać, Ana Djekić, Marija Boškan, Ivana Ivanić, Igor Živković, Katarina Bojkovic, Dragana Mitrović, Jovana Mitrović, Dušan Bajic, Ivana Drobnjak, Aleksandra Lazić, Aleksandar Đurić, Lidija Kraljević, Katarina Tucaković, Nikola Savić, Ognjen Mirković, Dušan Ružić, Filipa Dulović, Mila Dulović, Mila Petrović, Nina Popović, Jezdović Stefan, Sanela Gudžević, Milena Tomić, Vladimir Boljanović, Milica Dimitrović, Milica Dimitrovović, Nina Marinac, Olivera Vuković, Milica Petrović, Ninaa Popović, Nina Popović, Nata Stoilković, Filip Horvat, Silvio Stanković, Dušan and Tedovenović are present. We welcome them once again, and we want them to feel comfortable. The word has been made by MP Zoltan Peck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13101	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have the honor to present our opinion of our SVM parliamentary group on this law that is before us or in the bill of law that is before us. Some of my friends who are lawyers, they said this law is a Lex special. I believe them mail I'm not a lawyer, but I'm an economist, and when I got this proposal, I went to my community, I went to the Catastre, I went to the Urbanism Department to see how we were standing with that law that's still in the process. This is about the Law on Planning and Construction. This law was passed sometime in 2009 and in this law in Article 186 it was given time for six months for objects that wanted to be legalised, to be handed over to them this document and on the basis of which legalisation was to be carried out. So this deadline expired on 11 March 2010. As Mr. Minister said we have a million and 300 illegal objects in our country, which is a really big problem and a large number. We know that within those six months, only 700 thousand demands have been handed over, and 500 thousand have never been handed over at all. So maybe people don't have money or didn't want to follow this law at all. I wouldn't argue about it, and I wouldn't get into it. But what I'm saying is that out of these 700 thousand requirements, only a few of them are done, about 20% is unfortunately done. Since I was in the Department of Urbanism in the municipality where I came from, in the municipality of Senta, I was told that these submissions are unfortunately not complete. So the fees were paid, some documents were taken, but all the documents required by that law, if they were done, would go to the citizens of about 500 euros, at least in our municipality, they told me. Citizens unfortunately don't have enough money to legalize their facilities. I've been to the Catastre, too. So, unfortunately in our municipality, there are 23 thousand inhabitants, four people are working. Ten years ago, there were about ten employees here, and in the present time it was just four people. What I'm saying is that if these demands are to be submitted within the time limit, we won't, or those people won't be able to do this job physically. Whether it's 100 euros or a little more to the citizens, we'll talk about it later, but there won't be enough time to get this done. As I said in the Law on Planning and Construction, they must submit a request for legalisation, various documents such as proof of property, property or right of lease, evidence or photo of objects, here is meant for geodetic footage, and other documents, which are difficult or not difficult, but should be paid to do so in order to hand it over. Under this law, the authority of the administration is competent to submit requests within 90 days, and the law itself runs until 31 December 2004. I mean, like I said before, this is too short a time to do that, and I think this deadline is going to go on once and for all. The question is, is it in some or other similar municipalities, such as Senta, that if there are about 20 to 30 thousand inhabitants, what is the people or those who work in cathedrals or those bodies of the municipal administration, who are receiving these requirements? So, can this really be done physically, if we're looking at the law itself that's in front of us or the bill? It's very important to me here, that it's not just about those buildings that were illegally built, it's about those objects that don't have the permits. I ask my friends or neighbors, since we have in every municipality a lot of such objects that have been built, and they haven't been given the necessary permits yet, and they're there for a reason, which is, what haven't they got so far? Here I think of special facilities, economic facilities, where craftsmen should do their job or, if we look at what Vojvodina has full-scale economic holdings, these economic facilities are, I might say, stables. We have several examples in our community. An illegal facility was built next door. The facility has craftsmanship, with metal working and every day cuts metal with a certain string or with a particular machine that makes big noise. The neighbor's head came up. He started to break down the wall. So far, no one has had a permit to use the facility or the municipality. What I said about the stables, they didn't give the same thing because they weren't set to elaborate. Therefore, no applicable permits have been obtained, since there are no elements to protect the environment or to protect the fire or possibly some elaborate on the keeping of domestic animals in a particular circle of the city. With this law and these objects would be legalized. I think this legalization would increase the number of neighboring suits or citizens among themselves. At least that's what I think. We'll see what practice shows. As we know, in Article 58(2), the Constitution states that the right of property may be withdrawn or restricted only in the public interest established under a law with a fee which cannot be lower than the market. In this law in Articles 4 and 5, where third parties are written about or co-owners or co-owners of the facility or plot or building land itself, the question arises how can we take away a citizen's building land if it does not represent a public interest? The only public interest in our country is to legalize as many objects as possible. There's an individual interest here, and it's going to be one of the big problems that we have to solve. I hope the amendments will sort this out somehow. In Article 4, I find it a little unserious that when we make this legalisation, it takes at least two proofs, which the citizens need to bring. There's some evidence here. Of these evidence, the easiest way to get an electricity bill or a utility bill, as indicated here. For the rest, we don't even need to pay attention, because this can be brought anytime. If we're already looking at the first point of proof about the property tax on this building, you should know that in practice you have different examples. Like, I inherited my ancestors' house. My grandparents were building a house. The house had 50 squares, and then I moved in and buried the whole house, and it was just a wall. I illegally did the whole thing, and I'm paying the property for that facility my grandfather was building at the time. So this property evidence isn't complete and not legal. My second objection is to confirm the local communities. I don't know, maybe they ran these so-called local communities in other municipalities. But in my community, it was never done by the local community. How can the local community give evidence of the time of construction of that facility? It's the only way they can catch two men, two neighbors, and then they'll sign that my facility was actually built at the time. I heard from an expert about a word that I didn't know at first glance -- an orthophoto shot, and then they told me as a layman that it was an airplane video. So, with this plane shot or the orthophoto, we could prove it when the facility was built. I would suggest if you could put in this law this orthophoto video, that it would indeed be on some valid basis proof of the construction of this object or object that is concerned. If we look at Article 5, in Article 5, they are co-owners either of the parcels or of the building itself that was built. In practice, you know we have more types of construction. The best solution is when I, as the owner of the plot, built an object on that plot that was mine. So that's the easiest thing to solve. We have such examples that I had two plots, so I built an object. The same two plots are mine and with one plot we can solve the matter and the problem is solved. We also have such problems, that is, such cases that the plots have two owners. When he started building the facility, the co-owner didn't wonder or possibly didn't know that he had crossed the building block. I didn't think someone was building a facility on a co-owner's plot, because I don't think it's a case in our country or it couldn't be done, but it could've built a house if it'd crossed a meter or a meter and something in a neighboring plot. So, with this law, if it stays this way, this property that's underneath that facility belongs to that owner or owner of an object that doesn't even own that plot on which it was built. So, with this property right, it's going to be damaged by that co-owner you're talking about. I'd like to name another member. In Article 8, we have a lot of documents that need to be submitted in order for this legalization to be done. Unfortunately, it has been repeatedly said here that the cost of citizens is only 100 euros. I think the cost of this whole procedure will be more than 100 euros. The catastran itself will be 100 euros, but for those documents to be obtained or given as evidence, it will cost hundreds of euros. I don't think any geodetics are going to work for nothing, at least in our area it's not working. I don't know in other municipalities how it is, but I do know that geodetics are the people who make the most money in these situations. I will list another member who has entered my eyes, Article 11, which reads: "By enrolling property management on an illegally built facility, he does not touch the rights of third parties to exercise the right to his protection and the right to compensation for damages in court. "So, if a neighbor builds on my land, there's nothing I can do, possibly only to go to court and exercise my rights through court. I think it's out of my mind. I hope that with the amendments that have been or will be written on this article they will put this member in the domain a little bit so that the law itself can be accepted. In the end, I would say that our parliamentary group is for all those regulations that the EU requires. We are in favour of accepting, for the benefit of the citizens or for the general interest. The laws that have been passed for the benefit of the citizens will certainly vote for them, but I hope that or that my colleagues with amendments will bring this law into such order that it can be said that we can vote for this law. Thank you. President (Nebojsa Stefanovic): The word has a National MP Sanja Cekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13102	Mr. President, Minister Ilic, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Minister Ilic has, through a proposal for this law, shown the will to co-operate and accept amendments, which is good and that there is no law to be passed in this assembly that MPs' activities cannot be improved in a certain way. The discussions that have so far been by representatives of the parliamentary groups have helped me, especially Mr Obradovic's discussion to confirm that we do not have the law at this time. The law we had was challenged in the Constitutional Court. The attempt by Minister Ilic must be measured as a good intention and a need to arrange this area. The very fact that we have a million and 300 illegal objects in Serbia says we are in an unsettled state. If we wanted to discuss this politically, we'd go back 20 years and talk about who he was when and what he was doing, who he was when he offered in what way, but the conclusion would always be the same if we hadn't been able to meet people with illegal objects until today. I mean, if we hadn't gone out to meet those people who provide the only living space exactly in such facilities. When we mention people who have their own houses where they live, and they are not legal, then the political story is that there are also objects that are business space, that there are large buildings, etc. Yes, but if we always look at it that way then we'll never help our family settle down and we'll never meet our kids to get what we leave them clean and give them the opportunity to when they expand their family, when we get grandchildren to be in our house on one floor, on a legal object. The Group of MPs together for Serbia does not see any bad intentions in this law. Those failures in the law we've seen we've tried to present in our amendments. Good will, as I said, Minister, was at the very beginning that it would meet with amendments and all those amendments that were good would accept. In the future, it is certain that a law is necessary to implement this area in a way that is done by all orderly countries. I hope that we will no longer pass laws that will have some note "lex specialis" and that will be set by dates from – to. I hope that we will enter in these 20 years of parliamentaryism has managed to pass good laws and that we will take a break from any law as far as possible to bypass a member, preferably abuse and talk about it. We should respect the laws, that the laws are settled in the best way, and that the price and respect of this law and Minister Ilic's intention to meet all those who live in illegal facilities, who have failed for various reasons, and most of all for financial reasons to arrange the space in which they live under the law. The decision to define ourselves when the day of the vote is due will be made when we hear your position, Mr. Minister, on our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13103	The word is made by MP Branislav Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13104	Dear President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this law regulates special conditions for the entry of property rights on buildings, or parts of buildings built without a building permit until 11 September 2009, which are used without the use of the permit on the building land on which it was built. It is about residential buildings intended for family housing, residential business facilities, weekend houses, facilities designed to carry out craft work, auxiliary and economic facilities. The provisions of this law shall not apply to buildings built on the surfaces of public purpose, i.e. on land planned for editing or building objects of public interest and on buildings built in the area of protection of cultural goods, of exceptional importance and of protection of cultural goods listed in the World Heritage List. The registration of property rights on illegally built buildings is carried out on the basis of public and private documents which are similar for the entry of property rights on land and facilities in accordance with the provisions of this law, the law governing planning and construction, the basic legal relations and the state diameter and the cadastre. If the owner of an illegally built facility is registered as the holder of the right of use on a catastrian plot on which that illegal facility is built, the authority responsible for the entry of property rights shall, by one solution, enter the right of property on the facility and on the building land if the conditions prescribed by this law are met. If an entity is illegally built on a building land which is owned or registered on it for the benefit of a third party, whether physically or legally, a unit of local self-government, autonomous province or a Republic of Serbia, the authority responsible for enrolling the right to property in a single solution shall enter the property on the facility and building land under the facility if the conditions prescribed by this law are met. If the owner of an illegally built facility used for a family home does not have any evidence, the authority responsible for entering the property right will enter the property right on the facility on the basis of at least two evidence. The registration of property rights on an illegally constructed facility built on a catastrian plot that was co-owned, i.e. by co-ordinating a number of persons, which were not subject to a parcel, will be carried out with the submission of one of the evidence without subsequent consent. The registration of property rights on a building built on the basis of a building permit, for which use has not been granted, by 11 September 2009, may be carried out on the basis of a judicial building permit, i.e. a legal solution which changes the building permit due to the change of investors in accordance with the law. The constitutional and legal basis for the adoption of this law is set out in the provisions of Article 97, point 7, 12 and 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which found that the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides certain relations in the organisation and use of space, property and bond relations and other relations that are of interest to the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the Constitution. The law will regulate the registration of property rights on buildings, i.e. parts of objects built without a building permit. This creates conditions for the registration of rights of ownership of illegally built facilities and legal certainty in possible traffic and the provision of mortgage loans and the like. These investors, i.e. the owners of illegally built facilities, would significantly increase the market value of these facilities and would be fully in line with the law in a legally valid manner, with the possibility of starting a legalisation and obtaining a building permit, i.e. the use of teaching permits under the applicable regulations. The implementation of this law does not require financial resources in the Republic of Serbia's budget. The effects of this law. This law ensures, above all, the registration of state and registration of property rights, transport and legal certainty in business with building land and buildings, as well as simplification of the procedure for all participants in the area covered by this law. The adoption of this law should create a basis for achieving the following objectives: simplifying the administrative procedure by reducing the number of evidence obtained before other special authorities and organisations, while at the same time avoiding the assessment of the competent authorities, the reduction of the scope and type of documentation, which reduces the time needed to enter property rights on illegally built objects. The proposed legislation indirectly achieves other objectives, which contributes directly to economic development. Conditions are being created for legal certainty in the transport of immovable property, the provision of adequate loans and others. The application of this law will not create any new costs for citizens, i.e. the economy. This law creates the possibility of hiring new operators on the market, which also enables market competition. According to data available by the Republic Geodetic Institute, about 1,300,000 buildings on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, for which no construction or use of the permit has been issued, have been registered. According to data, around 700,000 legalisation requirements have been submitted. The applicable law plans construction and provides for a deadline for the application for legalisation, which is passed by law and which expired on 11 March 2010. In view of the above, it is concluded that around 500,000 owners did not exercise their legal right and applied for legalisation, which was one of the reasons why this law was passed. The importance of enrolment of property rights is undeniable, both for the owners of illegally built buildings and for the Republic of Serbia, because the change of this law will enroll in public books the largest number of immovableities built without a building permit. The owners of illegally built buildings will be registered under this law as owners, which will enable them to exercise some other rights of owners of registered immovableities, such as obtaining credits, a higher price of immovableity in the case of immovable property traffic, but also the possibility of further investing in their facility, adaptation, reconstruction, recovery and others in accordance with the law. It is particularly noted that illegal facilities cannot be the subject of energy recovery. On the other hand, the Republic of Serbia will have almost fully completed its own records in one short time, and the issue of illegal construction is being tackled preventively. As regards the grounds for the adoption of an emergency law, the proposed law lays down the conditions for entering the right of ownership of illegally built facilities and thus legal security in the transport of immovable property, i.e. adequate loans and others. In the context of the economic crisis, it is necessary to implement it urgently in order to create conditions for simplifying administrative procedures and transparency in the exercise of rights in this area and to remove the adverse consequences of illegal construction in the Republic. It is therefore necessary to adopt this law as a matter of urgency in order to prevent the occurrence of harmful consequences for citizens and businesses. When adopting this law, I have to bear in mind, and for a long time I have been in this matter, that the bill that prescribes the registration of property rights on buildings, or parts of buildings built without a building permit, and do not oblige the owners of illegally built buildings to pay compensation for the construction land, the Institute for the construction land planning is being destroyed, because units of local self-government will no longer have or will have much less funds for municipal infrastructure facilities and infrastructure projects in settlements with illegal buildings, water, sewerage, traffic, schools, schools and kindergartens. In particular, Article 10 of the proposed law provides that the owner of an illegally built facility may obtain, in accordance with the law in a special procedure, a building permit, i.e. the use of a permit and after the entry of a property right on an illegally built facility, but does not oblige the owner to obtain, within a certain period, a building permit for which proof of the arrangement should be attached, i.e. as regards payment of compensation for urban land management, representing local public income. In addition, the application of this law puts those who paid compensation for the construction of urban land in a regular process and in a legalisation process, which violates the principle of legal certainty of citizens, as it favours the lawless builders who built on foreign land compared to landowners, and thus the lawless builders are in a more favourable position than other investors. Article 1(2) of the proposed law provides that the right to property may only be entered on buildings intended for housing. However, for residential and business facilities it should be precisely defined that the registration of property refers to housing within a residential and business facility, not to specific parts of those facilities, in order to avoid problems in the application of this law. The URS parliamentary group will vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13105	At this point, I'm setting a regular break of an hour. We continue work at 2.30 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13106	We're going back to work. The word has the People's Messenger Susan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13107	Dear chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that the problem of lawless construction in Serbia is a major and decades-old problem, which despite numerous attempts has not been resolved so far. The Law on Planning and Construction, which was adopted in 2003, had a good intention of introducing order in the area of construction and construction of the settlement, but did not produce any significant results. Although the legalisation deadline was extended under this law, only 380,000 applications were filed and around 3% of applications submitted were legalised. Breaking the urban order and the Law continued, so that the number of illegally built buildings in Serbia only increased every year. The law on planning and construction, which was passed in September 2009, was another attempt to address the problem of illegal construction. The deadline for submitting applications for legalisation under this law expired on 11 March 2010. Within that period, around 700,000 owners of illegally built buildings submitted legalisation applications, of about 1,400,000 that are believed to be present in Serbia. Many of these requirements did not even begin the legalisation process, and only 10% came to an end, i.e. the registration of ownership on their facilities after obtaining a construction and use permit. The reasons for the small interest of citizens should be sought, above all, in the fact that legalisation is a more significant financial burden for citizens, because according to the still valid Law on Planning and Construction at the request, it was also necessary to provide extensive accompanying documentation - the situation plan, the technical report on the state of the facilities with the plotted installation, the infrastructure network, the project implemented by the state, evidence of paid administrative fees. Then, evidence of the paid fee for editing city building land and evidence of resolved property-legal relations for the plot on which the facility is built, which additionally burdens the citizens, because we know very well that there are a large number of parcels in Serbia where property and legal relations are not resolved. Starting from the practices of countries in the region that encourage the merger of new laws on planning and construction, with a much simpler procedure that costs less and shorter, which provides yet another opportunity for the owners of illegally built buildings to enroll their property on real estate. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Urbanism propose a special law, "lex specialis" on special conditions for enrolment of ownership on buildings built without a construction and use permit. This law represents a form of property records, not legalization of objects. That's what we're supposed to have in mind. The aim of this law is to put illegal construction in the legal frameworks, to finally establish the exact property records of all the buildings built in Serbia, to establish legal order in this area, so that we can reach European standards. Otherwise, Serbia will have a difficult time functioning with unresolved records at a time when Europe starts using a cadastrian satellite, on which to obtain data for each parcel in every country. Also, this law should also ensure legal certainty in the transport of immovable property, allowing property owners to enter property over their immovable property to uninterruptedly alienate them, to raise loans, to enter mortgages, thereby increasing the value of their property. The problem of illegally built buildings is also an obstacle to Serbia's faster economic development, as Serbia has been characterised as a country in which it is not well invested due to a large number of illegal objects. The bill is another one in a series of measures that the government of the Republic of Serbia is launching to boost investment and to form a positive investment environment in Serbia. The law stipulates that objects built by 11 September 2009 can be entered in the housing cadastre, family houses, cottages, craft workshops, auxiliary and economic facilities. When it comes to 11 September 2009, as a deadline for the construction of buildings on which property can be entered, I propose that this law cover all buildings built until the date of entry into force of this law. That's how I think you'd achieve the full effect of this law. Otherwise, the question arises – what to do with the buildings that have been built since 2009 until today, which are 300,000 in Serbia? Do you, after some time, reiterate a law that will solve this problem, or tear down these objects, which I do not think anyone in this congregation would support? I also believe that the law should provide for maximum squareness, depending on the purpose of the facility, since the Institute of Property Registration should primarily be focused on the socially endangered layer of citizens, who built the facilities to solve housing issues and lives in these properties, not for profit or business. In this regard, the SPS parliamentary group will submit amendments. The law does not allow the registration of objects which cannot be legalised, objects built on public surfaces, at intersections, in areas of economic and cultural goods. The provisions of the law will also not apply to catering, trade, business and other public facilities, which will have to go through regular legalisation procedures. The law on special conditions for the registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit has defined evidence on which the right of property can be entered on the property and land, with the difference, when it comes to buildings that are citizens on land on which the owner of an illegally built facility has the benefit, which are built on other people's land, and the difference between the facilities that the owner has built to meet family, or residential needs. It is provided for in Article 4 and Article 5 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). When it comes to the confirmation of the local community, I would have a suggestion – that the obligation to confirm evidence of the existence of an object is not entrusted to local communities which are not legally entrusted with this authority. A more adequate solution would be that it is proof of the competent authority of local self-government, construction inspection, the Department of Housing-Communal Affairs or other body with similar powers. Meat communities should not be put in a position to issue documents requiring responsibility without them being trained professionally. Moreover, such a solution can lead to a series of abuses. Otherwise, this member of the law, which refers to property proof, has caused a lot of controversy in the public, but it is certainly a good way for those security owners of illegally built objects. I say, the security owners of illegally built buildings, because you believe that there are such, and they are those who bought the house or apartment, but they have no purchase contract, which is certified in court, or they bought the land and they also have no purchase contract or any other evidence of ownership, because the seller is not available, is not alive or has no heir, and the buyer or buyer has, which is often the case, built an illegal facility, because for legal reasons, unsettled property-law relations could not get a license, and all the time he was living in that facility, he paid all taxes such as electricity, taxes and other bills. There is no other way than by trial, which is often avoided and demoted to solve cases like this. This was also the biggest problem we faced in the legalisation process, where property cannot be solved, because the owner of an illegal facility cannot bring proof of the resolved property-legal relations for the plot on which he built the facility, which the Law on Planning and Construction provided for in Article 193. This bill provides for the entry of property rights on illegally built buildings without providing evidence that the investor owned an illegally built facility has regulated compensation for the construction of city-building land, which is also a condition when obtaining the permit even when legalising. Since this law is not a condition for the registration of property rights by paying compensation for urban building land, and given the social status of persons who have built buildings without permission, I believe that in the case of depreciation of immovableity, an obligation should be met to the local self-government unit. Article 4 of this law is crucial and it is, in fact, the most important part of the law. The basic will of the legislator of the law is that the very fact of the existence of an unlawfully built building on other people's land is the basis for the registration of the property of an illegal builder and the entry of property rights on the property under the property, with the payment of compensation under the rules governing the expropriation, as well as the obligation of the owner of an illegally built building to determine the land needed for regular use and for which he will pay compensation at market price. I believe that it is necessary otherwise, by means of this legislative proposal or regulation or by some sublegal act, to regulate the acquisition of property rights on the property under the property and land required for the regular use of the facility by delaying the entry of the right of ownership to resolve property legal relations with the owner of the land and providing for an appropriate time limit for that. At the same time, it would protect the rights of registered landowners. What is good is that Article 9 distinguishes the registration of ownership on objects that are registered under this law, and the objects that are entered on the basis of a building permit and the use of the permit, by placing a note on the basis of which the objects are entered. The law has simplified the procedure a lot. Those who have applied for legalisation under earlier regulations will not have to do so again, but within 90 days, in the jurisdiction of the service to forward these requirements to the immovable cadastra. In doing so, I draw attention to the fact that the 90-day deadline is short, as well as to the burden on the catasters and insufficient equipment for the up-to-date implementation of the registration procedures of property rights under this law. As it is a huge number of cases and relatively short deadlines, additional personnel and technical equipment of the Catastrian services will be required. Otherwise, there could be a dampening of this service by a huge number of cases, which would result in dissatisfaction of citizens and diminishing the effects of this law. Article 13 should be more precise in that section relating to the owners of illegally built objects, which have not submitted requirements to earlier regulations, but have left a deadline of one year to submit new applications for registration of property on their facilities. Two questions are raised here. First, do the parties applying for the registration of property rights under this law have the right to legalise their facilities after enrolment, since they did not apply for legalisation upon prior request? Secondly, what is unclear and what is likely to create problems in practice is that – how will the problem of connections of illegally built objects to the electrical, water and sewerage network be solved, since the Law on Planning and Construction, which is still valid, provides that only those objects that have submitted legalisation requirements can be connected to those networks? So how do you enable the connection of objects that are listed in the immovableity cataster, rather than continuing the legalisation process? Will the application for registration under this law also be considered a requirement on the basis of which owners will be able to continue the legalisation process? In addition to all the positive effects that this law will create for the owners of illegally built buildings and all the positive effects that this law will have on the state, as well as all the shortcomings that this law contains, in practice, I am sure that the most significant effect will show the prevention of fraud on the real estate market, where there has been more sales of the same real estate, because there was no record of immovableity and there was no possibility of any previous sales being recorded. The SPS parliamentary group has submitted a number of amendments, which I hope will address the shortcomings and failures of this bill. We have also discussed this on the Committee of Resolution and have come to concrete and constructive proposals and conclusions that will provide answers to many questions and solve the really big doubts that we all have in certain parts of the law. The SPS parliamentary group will certainly support this draft law on special conditions for the entry of buildings without construction and use of permits, as the state must finally edit the ownership records. We expect the effects of this law to be multiple positive, starting with simplifying procedures, cutting time, solving problems and reducing the costs needed to register property on immovable property, as well as increasing opportunities for owners of illegally built facilities to legally participate in real estate transport. Kastastar legalisation should be completed by the end of 2014, as long as this law is in force. May this law be the first step towards a permanent settlement of construction chaos in Serbia. By adopting this law, the state should finally make a cut, after which it will prevent wild construction, at any time and anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13108	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13109	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, except for the discussions of the ruling majority MPs, which I find unconvinced, I would like to say that the Committee on Spatial Planning was considering this bill yesterday. At the very session of the Committee on Spatial Planning, one of the ruling majority MPs said he hoped that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives would withdraw this bill. The board did not withdraw, but there was a very close vote and the result was 7-5. The regulation of the area to which this law applies is undeniably necessary, but the way in which this law is registered is bad. There are many or many shortcomings in the law. First of all, I'm the name of the law. The law refers to buildings that were built without a building permit, but already in Article 1 we see that it also refers to buildings used without the necessary permission, and then to the building land on which the building was built, or building land under the building. The same thing in Article 6. – registration of property rights on an object built on the basis of a building permit, for which use has not been granted, and we are talking about the Law on the registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit. So, completely confusing. As a second major flaw, it's that it's anti-constitutional. So, Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides that all are equal before the Constitution and the law. Article 58(2) The Constitution shall be guaranteed that the right of ownership may be withdrawn or restricted only in the public interest. Yesterday, on the Committee on Spatial Planning, we heard that the public interest was to register millions and 300,000 objects, and then from the same lady of the ministry's representative came a correction and said it was not a public interest but a general interest. Whether it is public or general, it is not established by this law, as Article 58 provides that the right of ownership may be withdrawn or restricted only in the public interest established under the law. What my fellow lawyers are saying is that it's actually a public interest to protect third parties who are taking away property by this law. Also, to return to article 21. The constitution, this law favors the persons who built on other people's land compared to the owners of that land. The third significant drawback is that this law allows corruption. We know that Mr. Secretary has a certain tolerance for stealing, but this law allows a lot of abuse to be done. The very term "building facility" is not defined, so it is subject to a different interpretation of the organs that will decide whether it will be entered. In addition, Article 1 lists the objects to which the provisions of the Bills are applied, but they are not exactly defined, which means that these provisions are also subject to different interpretations. It is also written in Article 1 in Article 4. - exclusively on the objects referred to in Article 3. What extraordinary? Who defines what's extraordinary? Is he who receives 100 euros, 500 euros, or someone else? Otherwise, we suggested that this attitude be deleted, because it is completely excess. These draft laws set different deadlines for the implementation of certain obligations to be carried out by state authorities, but no sanctions are defined, i.e. negative consequences due to inaction or failure. Once again, we return to that Article 1, this time item 5, where the authority is responsible for urban affairs is obliged to take place within 15 days, etc., but nowhere in the bill does it say what if that authority does not act in accordance with Article 1(5). In Article 8(2), point 3 is replaced by the following: Who determines this need, and what are the criteria for identifying this need? So we can consider some citizens necessary without others. And to this member of the law, of course, we have submitted an amendment. The fourth significant lack of law is the law's validity. The law is projected to be valid until 31 December 2014. From the conversations we had with the people of the Catastres, they say they're completely unprepared for implementing this law and there's no way they're going to get to process all the items they're going to have under this law. Furthermore, there are many misunderstandings. Article 13(3) of the Authority of the Administration responsible for the legalisation of illegally built objects is obliged to submit, within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this Act, to the authority responsible for the registration of the right of ownership, an application for objects, with documentation prescribed by this Act. My question is, does this law, since I don't understand it, abolish the right to legalization? If the authority responsible for the conduct of urban affairs the whole case is subject to a catastra, will those cases already in the legalisation process and whose provisions of the law have not yet been put out of force, therefore, apply until June of this year, will they be able to carry out and complete the legalisation of their facility? Also, what about citizens who simply won't take advantage of this legal possibility and absorb property rights on a building built without a building permit, if provided for by this law? Our proposal is to first ask the parties who applied for legalisation if they want to enroll property in this way. My next question is – what about incomplete legalisation requirements? If the authority responsible for urban affairs passes a catastrom incomplete application for legalisation, what will happen to that request? The law also does not foresee the possibility of adopting sublegal acts. Article 8(2)(3) provides for a record of the examination carried out. Who's making this record? What's that record supposed to contain? We have proposed that a sublegal act be adopted on this issue and we have made an amendment for it. We have also received many e-mails from citizens, who say this law will give us the opportunity to stop natural restitution. I ask you, how did you predict to avoid that possibility? Also, the law contradicts itself because Article 13(1) states that the owners of illegally built objects, i.e. parts of objects, which have applied for legalisation of objects do not have the obligation to submit a new request, and Article 8 stipulates that the application for registration of property rights on an unlawfully built facility is submitted to the authority responsible for the registration of property on whose territory the illegally built facility is located and subsequently provides for what is being delivered with the request. It's documentation that wasn't delivered, but with a request for legalization. It is not clear on what basis the Authority will act, whether under the Law on Planning and Construction or by the law we are discussing today. I ask the question – what will it serve, I hope, the new Law on Legalisation, which ministry is obliged to propose and to adopt the Assembly by June, until when do the provisions of the old law apply? The board was told, and you, Minister, have today denied it, that based on this enrolment, the facilities will be able to be alienated. Today you said you wouldn't be able to be estranged without paying the compensation for the arrangement. I ask you, will it be or will it not? Also, we've heard that you've reached an agreement with the Banks' Association that banks will accept these facilities as collateral for the security of certain loans, and we're getting information from banks that, without technical reception, banks won't do it. Let's just make it clear if he wants to or won't. Speaking of the social aspect of the law, you said that the law primarily applies to people who have given up, haven't flown for 10 years, saved, invested everything in their facilities, etc. We agree with that, but in order for that to be true, we must limit the surface areas of objects that can be entered under this law. That is why we have submitted amendments to limit the area of objects to 300 or 200 or 100 squares, depending on the type of objects. Also, if this is already a social aspect, and we have the position of a permanent conference of cities and municipalities, we have predicted that now we pay for the construction land for buildings over 100 square meters. I think that's fair. So, up to 100 squares have no obligation to pay compensation for editing, nor will they ever have it, because with your proposal, citizens who enter now up to 100 squares will, if they want to alienate the facility, have to at some point at the time of alienation to pay the compensation for the arrangement. We say - they won't have to then, but up to 100 squares. To recap, the name of the law is not in line with the matter it edits. The law itself does not agree with the Constitution, contains provisions that allow abuse and corruption. The law gives the possibility to stop the process of natural restitution and it is extremely inaccurate, which will make its application very difficult. The Democratic Party has most well-intentionedly invested a total of 24 amendments and we hope you will accept them, which will change the meaning and spirit of the law, i.e. to comply with other legislation, and in that case, the DS will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13110	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragomir Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13111	Dear Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would first of all like to congratulate the president once again on March 8th, normally, not only my colleagues, but all women of the Serbian country and to express my sincere regret that the proposal did not pass today for the ladies to be free. But it's never too late. There's time, so we'll see. According to data available by the Republic Geodetic Institute, in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, according to Minister Ilic, about a million and 300,000 buildings that do not have a building permit have been registered. Of that number, some 700 thousand were filed in accordance with previous laws for legalisation, of which less than one percent was solved. For example, in Belgrade, out of 135,000 demands, only a thousand were solved. The legalisation deadline has expired, and hundreds of illegal buildings remain, i.e. Objects. Such a situation cannot be ignored and conditions must be created to resolve the status of these objects within a certain time limit and to resolve this problem. What, in my opinion, is the most important reason for the adoption of a law on special conditions for enrolment of property rights to buildings that were built without a building permit? First, to register the owners of illegally built buildings by 11 September 2009, as the date on which the Law on Planning and Construction entered into force. Under two, the registration of property rights increases their market values allow for higher revenue from the budget. Under three, the protection of these facilities in legal traffic is increasing. Under four, it enables the provision of mortgage loans to owners. In the public debate over this law, the bank did not support the interpretation that this enrollment would give it the right to mortgage loans. But I personally have confidence in the minister, Mr Ilic, that it will work. The legalisation of these facilities, i.e. obtaining construction and use permits, is allowed to continue. Under five, each owner is allowed to acquire property on the property under the building, as well as land used for regular use if the land user is a land user, but on other people's land under the prescribed conditions. To pay for the land he was given. Under six, it is possible to employ professional people, geodetic, legal, and other professions in shooting, obtaining documentation and other work for enrolment. What are the real estates here, what's this about? Number one, these are housing facilities for a family home. Under two, residential business facilities, i.e. special parts in these facilities. Under three, holiday homes, resorts, cottages and the like. Under four, facilities designed to carry out craft work. Five, auxiliary and economic facilities. What's mostly criticised in the law? There have been many objections as to how these objects are defined, mostly because of precision, by size, or squares, are intended and the like. Because the requirements would be submitted by owners, hotels, malls and other immovableities intended for markets that are large square areas. Thus, it would be pointed out in the public debate that money laundering would be legalized, i.e. corruption would flourish. However, under the definition of Article 2 of the Law, it is clear that it is not about these facilities. What is specially registered under special regulations are buildings built on public surfaces, and objects of natural and cultural goods. Exceptionally, property rights can be entered on buildings built and on those surfaces, which has been sharply criticised by the Anti-Corruption Agency. However, these special laws will just prevent the possibility and the way it has been so far, and this is the way to abuse, i.e. to say legalisation of corruption. What kind of procedure would it be to solve disputes and admit the actual situation on the ground? It shall be possible for the owner of the facility to enter the right of property with compensation and on land below the facility if the owner of the property is a third party. This will bring more order and legal certainty on the ground and will remove many disputes, for a third party receives compensation for this land. There have also been many objections to this provision, as land usurpers would be legalised by illegal action, and the owner of the land of a third party should lead a uncertain and expensive and possibly long-standing court dispute against usurper, and even when he receives a court dispute, the question is whether that court solution will be carried out. Under two, the owner of an illegal facility also has the right to initiate a procedure to grant him land for regular use. Under three, if an illegal facility is built on a cadastrian plot which is in the co-opted plot of land will be executed without the subsequent consent of co-owners who did not object at the time of construction. All disputed property relations of a legal nature, the amount of compensation and similar property rights are allowed in subsequent court proceedings. This enables better application of this law because it solves many legal, disputed cases although they are in fact indisputable on the ground. This provision has been criticised because it is hard to prove a third party's opposition and can be abuse, and third parties are forced to go to court and prove their right. Under four, the law refers to upgrades, superstructures, adaptations made without a building permit by 11 September 2009. When it comes to documents, you need to enroll. A recording of the objects, the law provides for the necessary documents to be applied for the registration of property rights, and one of the documents is a recording of an object with proper data, and this video will be needed in a number of cases and will require the funds of the property owners and normal professionals. In order to successfully complete the law enforcement work, it is necessary to support the solution of making the most of the employment of registered surveyors. In addition to the request, the lawless builders should also submit at least two evidence for enrolment, otherwise four evidences are provided: that he paid the property tax, that he paid compensation for municipal services, that he paid electricity, gas, confirmation of the local community when the facility was built, etc. You can normally see here one big problem we had last night when it came to the energy efficiency law, which is a large number of citizens don't pay for electricity. Thus, this condition will virtually prevent him from applying for his real estate registration. But we'll see, given that certain privileges have been given to citizens that they can pay gas debt, electricity, that they can pay it without heavy interest, and that they can pay it on a delayed deadline, I believe that it will have a favourable effect on a large number of citizens going into this procedure. The competent authority of the administration shall also notify the possibility of legalisation of the facilities in accordance with the legalisation procedures. The evidence is related to the payment of utility services which is good because it means that the facility is used for housing, i.e. to work. There is one big contribution from this ministry and Mr. Minister Velimir Ilic. When we talk about it, this is a beginning, this is a foundation, a good foundation, this is not a holy letter, there can be many changes in the course of your amendments, your other suggestions. Finally, when the law is passed, it is still not a holy letter, it can still go on to be better, better quality, more reasonable and what will satisfy most of the citizens in that position in any case. My proposal, since we already know that there are 1.300.00 illegal objects, and 700,000 legalisation requests have been filed from that number, there are 600,000 owners who would have the right to use the provisions of this law by 31 December 2014. I'll tell you the truth, Mr. Minister, it's short notice. Normally, I will support this law, but I believe that this deadline, I have not tabled an amendment, but in any case, it is good to consider with your associates that the deadline should be extended at least by the end of 2016. Why and for what? Many who want to do so and who can meet all conditions do not meet one basic condition. The Serbian citizen is in the majority of poor citizens and will have no material opportunities to pay for the recording, to carry out all the documentation. I thought we'd take a step further so we could see what the budget options are to take a shot from the budget, i.e. compensation or to lend to those people who need to go into the process of enrolling their property, land, to be given to them some kind of loan, to borrow 7%, which service would do, which is the ministry responsible, you'll know better than I do, so that they can obtain all the necessary documentation so that they can enter their immovable property. For the entry of property rights is also a good number, which apply will not exercise that right because of objective things, which is because of the evidence they need to file in order to make enrolment. So it's also going to be a longer process, which is why I thought this deadline was too short. As a result, local self-governments throughout Serbia should be obliged to write down all the facilities built, before 11 September 2009, without a building permit, then, on the basis of their solutions, solutions to the relevant construction inspection, satellite recordings and other data that geodetic and other state authorities, along with the immovableity, write down all the building plots on which these buildings were built and prepare for the subsequent application of this bill. I also propose, Mr. Minister, that the law provide for the obligation of the owner of illegally built objects, to apply within a certain period for the registration of property rights and to provide for maybe criminal provisions if they do not. What's this about? I understand all my colleagues who have been discussing today. Normally, there's a good part of the owners that don't come to mind to write it down because it also pulls out obligations, if you have rights, automatically with these rights you gain both obligations and vice versa. So I believe that all colleagues will contribute as well as we as the government's majority and you in the opposition, I am deeply convinced that you will show constructiveness, that you will do well for our citizens, who are in one way disproved, that you will give good amendments, that you will give good proposals, that you will help Mr. Ilic with your discussions and suggestions, because however anyone looks, this is the basis, these are the basis, that Serbia will move forward and not stand and wait. I thank you, Mr. Minister, for your efforts, and I will vote in favour of this bill and try to make my contribution with my colleagues, writing and giving you all sorts of suggestions that can benefit our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13112	Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word has been made by MP Dejan Rajcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13113	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, it is my pleasure to say, in light of this proposal for a law on the registration of property rights over buildings that were built without a building permit, that this right of property is one of the fundamental rights of human rights that comes from the time of ancient Rome. The right to property and property is an unimpeached right and it must be equally accessible to all citizens of Serbia, respecting, of course, the objective circumstances which have led to such anomalies, whose consequences today we are trying to remove from this law, have arisen. Namely, the problem that we are talking about today and that we want to solve didn't happen yesterday or today when we are discussing this law, the problem has accumulated back years, and we can even say for decades from time to time when in some other social system of arrangement of some of the former countries in which we have lived, this issue has been given either very little or no attention. As a result of such an indolent relationship, we have the fact that today the entire neighborhoods in certain cities are built without construction permits, undrawn and unlisted in any asset-care operator, which deals with the entry and registration of property, both the citizens of natural persons and the business and business entities, and I think it is time to cut this situation and to move from this unregulated or very little orderly situation to a regulated state, so that we can answer the questions that await us in this future process of expecting the date of accession to EU membership negotiations. So without this resolved question, we do not have the opportunity to continue any further activities in order to regulate the legal framework that should be brought into line with the legal system and the framework of European legislation. Analyzing all these members and elements contained in this legislative proposal, we see that the objectives that are to be achieved by this legislative proposal are, in fact, the simplification of all procedures over a million and 300,000 buildings built without a building permit issued, of which we have had the opportunity to hear in previous discussions, including the minister himself, over 500,000 objects submitted a request for legalisation of the subsequent process for issuing a building permit, up to that legal pre-inclusive deadline that was left until 11 March 2010. The reasons why citizens or other legal entities did not do so then are diverse and they are all more or less a case for themselves, but the fact that they are in very large numbers. In this way, a new possibility is opened for both those citizens and economic operators who have not applied for the recording of their facilities and their assets to be entered into the catastrian operator, i.e. in the immobility cadastre, so that the state has a final list of assets, immovable property that exists on its territory, and the list of assets and property itself, the recording of that property raises one general macroeconomic capacity of our country. The procedures for enrolment of property are as simplified as possible by this legislative proposal as opposed to the critical views we have had to hear in previous discussions concerning the thesis that there are corrupt elements and opportunities for corruption with this legal proposal, we in New Serbia argue that such elements do not exist, but are even prevented from such legal solutions. Why do we say that? The legislator, i.e. the legislator, through the members of this legislative proposal, provided that the entry of property rights on an illegally built building site and building land, if the owner of that facility is registered as the holder of the right to register as the holder of the right to use on a catastrian plot on which the facility is built, of course, on an additional condition that, within the next two years, the facility owner may be allowed to resolve the property issue over the property with the previous owner or land user. If this is not done within two years, it must be done by duty, i.e. at an estimated market price assessed by the competent tax authority on a given territory. Local self-government units have the opportunity to help their citizens, in a simplified process, come faster to the geodetic sketch of the facility by assessing whether they have the capacity in their local budgets, to hire geodetic firms who would engage in the process of making geodetic videos and sketches of recording objects that were built without building permits, and that eventually later that pre-invested money will be returned to the funds by the local self-government through, for example, the tax system, or the collection of property taxes, and as we know it is back five or six years in the jurisdiction of local self-government, to charge these citizens additional funds to return that money. In this way, again in line with previous discussions, we believe that enough opportunities have been left for citizens to be further assisted in this process of recording, i.e. recording property rights on these facilities. The most controversy yesterday on the board, where this legislative proposal has been discussed, referred to Article 4 of this legislative proposal, and we can say that, through an amendment submitted by New Serbia, it is precise, as I said, that the owner of the property and the owner of the land unless it resolves property legal relations within two years of the date of entry into force of this law, the owner of the facility is obliged to establish land for the regular use of the facility and the owner of the land is paid the market price of the property in question. The market price, of course, is determined on the market itself or on the solution of the tax authority of the local self-government unit. In the day we consider this law in particular, we will talk about individual members and elements of this law. In any case, I will now say that in the voting day, New Serbia will certainly unanimously support this legislative proposal because this law is vital and necessary, concerns not more than a million and a half citizens who are eager to follow the course of this discussion and the development of events today in this House, in order to resolve their basic issue, and this is a matter of property and acquisition of property rights over their houses, over their buildings, because the issue of housing is one of the basic issues, if not one of the most life issues that every family has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13114	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13115	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, SPO and DHSS were no less than all the other parliamentary groups were interested in the final version of this law that would enter parliament. Definitely, we now, given the discussions and what the minister said in the opening statement, cannot know the final version of this law. This was confirmed by yesterday's meeting of the parent committee that lasted over three hours and where, indeed, according to what we learned from the minister and from the other participants, there were very good discussions. We fully understand the complexity of the problem you faced the moment you entered this ministry. Somehow, since we belong not only because of the ideology of anti-communist parties, but because of everything they've done to our country with the day of violent system change. Here, and here you can see how many decades of the systematic state, what's in normal countries is pedestal, which is one of the highest values of human life, the right of property, how it's made a yawn, anarchy. At that time until the Constitution was passed and while there were rights to use and until we changed our own structure, you couldn't explain to any of the foreign investors how you could be a user of city, construction land, that you weren't the owner, that there was a complex procedure for obtaining building permits and all other legalization permits, etc. Indeed, governments have been trying in various ways for the past few years to inherit this situation, because we had from 1945 to 1990 38 system state laws that have been infested with the uncut right of property, which have destroyed it, which have complicated it, and as a consequence of all that, we have a pretty big mess in our system, as far as relations with owners are concerned, will this law, which is short, which has tried to be practical, be solved in the way that the greatest optimists expect? We accept that with a large dose of the reserve. Here, I'll tell you a few facts. We think some of the provisions of this law, if it remains as proposed, will surely challenge the constitutional court. Then, this law should be fully in line with the laws that are very important and that go into step with this law, and above all with the Law on Planning and Construction, the Law on State Border and Immobility and above all with the Law on Fundamentals of Property and Legal Relations. In the case of co-ownership, the Law on Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations regulated all three ways of building on other people's land, i.e. self-inflicted. Then, this law is certainly at the beginning of disagreement with the Law on Fundamental Property and Legal Relations and I believe tomorrow that first there will be a large number of court disputes. Secondly, even when the number of court disputes arises, it will be a totally unequal case law because the judges will be held by the head, which law should apply. Then, it violates itself, and indeed, I need it in every law, Minister, we absolutely understand your need to solve a complex problem, and anyone that is in your place couldn't easily solve it, but we can't, by solving one problem, produce any other problems. That is the basis why a large reserve of all this has our parliamentary group. For what? We, in a desire to maybe solve the problem, avoid unnecessary litigation, etc., will just produce the opposite. I think there will be more problems, I think there will be more litigation and I think there will be courts in the problem of how to handle a series of individual cases. There's plenty of inaccuracies here. It mixes both the concepts of notes and notes, regardless of what it means to make a note and then file a request and get a construction and use permit, to then make a final entry of property rights. That should be very clearly specified, you shouldn't leave any kind of dilemma. It seems to me that this article 4 thing that may have been the most controversial, this solution, if that amendment was accepted, and it's not so bad, because Article 4 really opened up so many opportunities for abuses. Simply, anyone could get confirmation from a local community official that he had built or built a house for a certain period, for a very small amount of corruption, and that he appeared as a property owner. We didn't need that, I don't know who dared suggest such a thing to enter the congregation procedure? We will also participate very actively in the debate on amendments. We'll see what the final version will be. So it's not our negative relationship, because we really want to stop, once in a while, by solving one of the problems, producing other problems. We'll see what the final version of this bill will be, but for now, as it is, we can't support it in the best way possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13116	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Veličković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13117	Thank you. Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of illegal construction in the Republic of Serbia has been present for almost 50 years, i.e. Ever since they first passed the regulations that regulated the construction of buildings. There have been several attempts in our country so far to legalise lawlessly raised objects. All these attempts were unfairly completed with the volume of legalized objects that had never crossed 50% of the estimated number of illegally raised, which is now around 1,300,000. What arises as a problem and now is likely to be in the future, and in the past it has been a constant, is the fact that the state does not work properly on this problem. For years, the state has been trying to solve the problem of illegal construction by allowing illegal construction, then appointing the existing situation, allowing the building to be legalized. In other words, the mechanism of preventing illegal construction, but also the repression of punishment against those who, despite bans, begin construction without approval, simply does not work. The reason for this long-standing problem is a double. The first lies in the mentality of the country's citizens, who often opt for investment construction, as it would say, on their own, by building houses for twenty years in unconditional and non-urbanised locations, leading to the creation of so-called. wild settlements of size and smaller towns. On the other hand, the slow, bulky and overpriced administrative procedure for obtaining the building approval is further complicated and such a complicated undertaking to build family housing and acts as a deterrent factor. Previous attempts at legalisation have not yielded results for reasons that even this time the state did not end up behind them. The rest are literally semi-finished. For many, the reduced amounts of legalisation fees were too expensive. Most citizens remained completely uninformed, and municipalities had neither the funds nor the human resources nor the technical potential to carry out a serious project so far. This time I am concerned that the same thing will happen in this case, because they have already arrived from the Republic Geodetic Institute, warning the tones that this institution will not be able to respond to this job that is put into effect by this law, because it does not have enough personnel or resources. If this time wants to achieve full legalisation and to create a comprehensive and up-to-date record of buildings built and rights on them, then this law is a good step in this direction, with a number of other measures to follow. First of all, there are fiscal repressive measures that would be taken at the end of the legalisation deadline, taxation of illegal objects at double or triple rate, their removal of the cost of the person who built them and the punishment of those persons. All to take the whole procedure very seriously this time and so that no new government proposes any new law again the next day. At the same time, it should be the state that will implement a campaign to inform citizens about the possibilities and legalisation process, so that it does not happen, as has happened before, that most citizens, as well as their rights, know nothing, because municipalities were not able or interested in informing them. Also, this serious project needs to be prepared very seriously, because something that lasted almost 50 years can't change in five, let alone a year. We therefore warn the departments in charge of very serious and studioy approach to this problem, to assess possible risks and bottlenecks in the process of implementing this law, because the problem is not solved by the law. The bring-in is usually initial and, as a rule, the easiest step. This law should be supported, along with the reserve and the fence, only to do so in order to finally solve the long-term problem, with a clear and loud recognition of those citizens and businessmen who have safe and responsible despite the massive and expensive procedures for the construction of their facilities neatly obtained approval for construction and use and paid various high fees and fees. It's precisely because of these people who are being discriminated against in this way that this should be the last time that the state approves of legalizing something that is at the same time in the criminal code incriminate as a criminal offence. I am in favour of simplifying the legalisation process of illegally built objects and reducing the level of taxis and fees, which should not be higher than in the regular procedure. The PUPS parliamentary group will support the draft law on special conditions for the entry of property rights on buildings without a building permit, because Serbia needs such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13118	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13119	Thank you. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, before the war, at some pre-election rally in northern Montenegro, in 1939, it was, a politician from Belgrade came and gave a speech and two old Montenegrins listened and one said to the other after that speech: "There will be a war. "and the other one says, "Why do you think there's going to be a war? "," he says, "I didn't understand anything about him. I didn't understand this speech. So there's gonna be a war. "The minister mentioned 17 times the word "legalization" in the context of this law, and there is no "l" of legalization here. We've been getting all kinds of laws here in the Assembly, but this is the scandal I don't think we've got yet. This is a law that, if I go back to that anecdote from the beginning, announces the election. Yes, colleagues and colleagues, there will be elections as soon as this law comes to the Assembly, and the minister says what is not in the law. Everyone decided to take care of those 1.300.00 people who have illegal facilities. So there's going to be a choice, but they're told along the way that they're going to legalize their illegal facilities, and that's not true. It will be registered and the right of property will be entered, which has been made clear so far. You knew who owned the illegal facility. It's full of corrupt mechanisms, vague procedures, unconfirmed procedures. What is it, corruption? After all, that's what the Anti-Corruption Agency said, but it didn't break, because only one member processed it. This law wants to fool these people, and therefore the elections will surely be as soon as the government has decided to adopt such a scandal from a law that no problem solves, and thousands of others will. Instead of changing the Law on Planning and Construction, instead of shortening and simplifying legalization procedures, they like to do things to people. Basically, what happens in the end? People will get some property rights, maybe they can trade and probably trade with those properties that are legal, but make sure no one in their right mind buys it, and pay even less at the market price. The banks won't take that as a mortgage, because the banks know it's not worth it. It's simple, they'll take a hundred euros, so you do the math -- let a million sign up, times 100 euros, and there's 100 million euros for the citizens to pay. Who's gonna pay for that? Those whom this ruling majority is deeply concerned about, and these are poor citizens who, behold, had no money to legalise the facilities. They'll take 100m euros from them. That's another reason to get closer to the election. First he wants to fool them into legalizing them, and then he'll take their money. What are the municipalities going to do with the compensation for the construction land? They'll probably say - go to Velje so he can dig up the sewers and bring in the water. After he's done it, let him do it. But the election comes when elections come to see how bulldozers and badgers work in those streets. Pre-election digging is the best campaign here. Who will do it, but those who are in power. We from the opposition can watch. Article 4 It's the essence, said a colleague of Judith. Mrs. Gerov will talk about these presidents. She was the president of the municipality, so from that point of view she will explain much better how the municipalities will direct those who now have allegedly legal object, and are looking for something that belongs to the legal object. How will they direct them to Vukic, Dacic and Velju that they do it when they are elected. Article 4 is an absolute scandal. He's kind of like that movie if you remember -- the big race, where the settlers in the West one day sit in a car and chase towards a free country. When he stabs the stake, it's his country. This Article 4 is worse than that, because it was a rule that everyone must stand on the line, everyone must be present. What does Article 4 do? I have an illegal facility that I built next door and I asked to buy, and he won't sell. He's abroad. Then I'll put a nice fence on his salary and file a request for use of the facility and write down his crying too. Then he has to sell it to me. For example. It's worse than that crying race in America. There's only one thing about this law that's good. Article 4 is a kidnapping and robbery of other people's property. Private, state, whatever. It's someone else's. Don't you think there's going to be cases where they take up state property with this Article 4 and the state refuses to comment? Is it corruption or not? This Article 4 allows. Even private property, without talking about restitution, about those who are anti-communists, they know better. The communists took away their property, so now the anti-communists are going to vote to take away their assets completely and to the end. That's where the anti-communists came from. One anti-Communist was saying, another minister, they were in a party together but now the anti-Communist minister will seal what the communists did if we speak from that position. Otherwise, I don't like to talk. It's an absolute robbery and confiscation of property by that Article 4. The only good thing is this law can't survive. He'll fall in the Constitutional Court like a mature pear. I think the restitutionists have already written, just waiting for you to vote and sue the Constitutional Court immediately. It's just amazing that this law came to the congregation. It's amazing that you from the ruling majority, I'm listening to you, from the SPS, have serious objections to the law, but you're going to vote because it solves problems. It doesn't solve problems. He's causing a lot of other problems. We'll get out of this law if it's not so lucky it's going to fall in the Constitutional Court for years. What has been created for decades will now be doubled by one law. In that sense, I really don't understand that anyone is voting for this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13120	Thank you. The word is made by MP Mujo Mukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13121	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on special conditions for the registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit. The very fact that the matter treated by this law is the subject of two laws. One is the Law on Planning and Construction, and the other is the Law on State Border and Cataster, which contributes to the analysis of the results of these two laws, which resulted in such results that the need was imposed and that it was necessary to pass one such law, one kind of legislation, because by analysing the application of these two laws we came to the result that in Serbia there were irrevocably built objects about 1,300,000, and probably more because this data refers to 11 September 2009. This law can be discussed from different positions. It can be like any other law, especially a law relating to the life problems of citizens of the so-called "citizens". middle class, though, and there's no real middle class because it's all poor. All of this was caused by a long-standing economic crisis in these areas and by wars in the environment. Unfortunately, all governments before this and this, honor of exceptions, parts and this government were in one period of power, and we all worked together to make sure that our citizens came into such a situation that in the ordinary procedure they could not provide building permits for their facilities without talking about the applicable permits. There were discussions like we heard today from the opposition committee. There have even been attempts to demean this bill but it is the right of every MP to speak in his own way about any draft law. I will try from an extreme human aspect to say a few words because I am convinced that the vast majority of these facilities make up the family housing houses of our families throughout Serbia who could not otherwise provide a housing issue. If we look at some data in Serbia, we have about half of our unemployed granddaughters supporting grandfathers without talking about sons. It's going to be a big percentage, I don't guarantee for all the facilities, and no one can do it, there's probably a dozen percent of the objects that might even slip past these family housing facilities, but it's people and our citizens that we can calculate with simple mathematics. If we have 1,300,000 illegal facilities, some 1,000,000 family housing, three members, it is minimally 3,000,000 of our citizens who have been denied basic human rights, the right to enrol in severe suffering acquired property. I am convinced that the Ministry had good intentions and real intentions when proposing this law, and on the Committee of Resort, I was also talking about several objections that I had on the proposal of the original law but yesterday, in a conversation with Assistant Minister Aleksando Damjanovic, we from the ruling majority also spoke. We have received guarantees that the ministry will accept all key objections and opposition and some MPs from the ruling majority. What was the main objections of the Anti-Corruption Agency and the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities and some opposition MPs have already been agreed. I have such information, and I have with me amendments that the Ministry is willing to accept. Half of what we heard here in the discussion doesn't stand. There will be limited objects in terms of squares, so some tycoons won't be able to get through this law, so they can legalize some of their warehouses or production halls that they built somewhere without permission. The intensity is to specify all these standards. What was the biggest observation is that now property rights are at stake on parcels where it is not cleared of whose land it is. Also, this amendment, which will be adopted, so the brand-new proposal of Article 4, will legalise only objects and will give a certain deadline to resolve the land issue, then alienation. That the institute of the ministry is just and that the ministry is prepared to accept the amendment to Article 11, where contracts that alienate the facility on which the right of property is entered in accordance with the provisions of this law cannot be confirmed by court without confirmation of the unit of local self-government on whose territory the object was built, that the owner of the facility has arranged relations with regard to the payment of compensation for the construction land. On the other hand, when it comes to paying for the construction land, I think that there are citizens and several times, not all of them, but in many cases damaged, because the construction land, in many towns and many cities, people have done it out of self-delivery and their own actions through the directorial boards and in accordance with local self-governments, and in fact they have already paid for this construction arrangement, and have been forced again into the legalisation process to pay for it to local self-governments. What's more important is, if I'm not wrong yet, 1996/97. The first Law on Legalisation was passed during the year when the minister was my university professor, Bane Ivkovic. Since then, we have passed several laws on legalization, but none have given adequate results. This is the first time, and therefore I support Mr. Velimir Ilic, to move in the other direction, so that citizens can be given property rights, what is basic human rights and in over 80% of cases, in some cases, there is nothing controversial about it. It is only disputed that citizens do not have the money to pay too much taxes that they envisioned to legalise all local self-government in Serbia. No one cares whether one family with a salary of 20, 30,000 dinars a month or no one works in the family. Simply, we here in the Assembly can compete with some legal knowledge, theory, and this is contrary to this article, and that. However, if all these illogicalities and contradictions are corrected, and the urgency is to correct this law by accepting certain amendments, I am sure we must look at the essence of this law. I say this as a member of the SNS parliamentary group, but primarily as a member of the Bosniak People's Party. I've received a lot of e-mails from citizens who support and can't wait to pass one of these laws, and we wouldn't be able to do any cheap demagogy, which is the right of the opposition, but indeed, there are some draft laws where we should all support and if we want to look at things humanly, to do something good for these citizens once, not to pass laws that are in the interest of some supreme ruling elite, etc., although I risk that many will say that now is a populist story and demagogy. But life, reality goes in favor of what I'm saying. If there's anything we want to do for these people, this is an opportunity. We support this law, to make it possible for people. I repeat again, there are undeniable cases, it's just that people don't have money, and someone's guilty of people being unemployed and not having money to pay for it. They barely made a roof on their children's heads. I repeat, and the third generation lives in the same house, and they're forced to expand that existing house without a building permit, because if they ask for a building permit, then that couple they've collected has to go to taxes and impose on local self-government and then there's nothing from building. That's the point. I hope that we will adopt these amendments on the resolution committee on Monday, whether it will be amendments to some Members of Parliament or whether the Committee will formulate the amendments itself. So, the bottom line is that all inaccuracies, all of which are essential to what the Anti-Corruption Agency has had objections, all the essential objections of the MPs will be accepted, but the essence of the law will not be applied. I appeal to the Minister and the Ministry not to allow any change in the essence of this law and to allow the state, above all, to receive accurate records of objects that exist in practice, which exist in reality, in life, and thus finally to do something for our citizens and to allow people to enter their immovableities in the building land cadasar, that what they have acquired and led to their name, and of course, if someone wants to trade and sell it, then let them pay the compensation for the construction land, etc. I want to say that the Bosniak People's Party supports this bill, and as we have heard, the parliamentary group to which I belong will support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13122	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13123	The esteemed chairperson, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers, the discussion on the subject of this law could be reduced on the one hand to a mere question here for absolutely every provision in this law that is unclear and can individually be interpreted, each in its own way. Someone thinks it's this, someone thinks it's that. It may also be that I convey to you the sense of bewildering that has possessed me when I first read in the draft of this bill what can happen if this law comes into force. So I suggest you, Mr. Minister, withdraw this law in time. It's not a sin to make mistakes, but it's a sin when we don't know that mistake at a given time, or when we get to know her, and we don't want to change her. I think it's about time the whole law retired. I believe you will surely appreciate our suggestions, since you know the situation. For example, we could, as my colleague Radojko Obradovic said, amend the system laws to come to a solution to this problem of enrolling property rights. The title says "on buildings", and in fact, the essence of the enrollment of property rights is on land, and that is nowhere in the title of the law stands. Whoever reads it a little better can know that. Although, I have to be honest, maybe you'd understand something if I hadn't read the reasoning of the law. For example, we can amend Articles 96, 97, and 98. The Law on State Prime Minister and Catastro, which speaks of the entry of property rights on land, buildings and parts of buildings, thus solving this problem with the completion of the Law on Planning and Construction. I'm sure I can explain it a little bit closer. Some of the colleagues spoke on the basis of members. I'm starting with article 1 where we're already defining objects completely unclear. What kind of housing are these? What kind of housing business is that? What kind of apartment buildings are these? What kind of holiday houses are these? Who wanted to do that? How many cottages? It seems to me that this whole argument goes beyond the basic idea of the law - legal certainty, in order to transport real estate and to raise certain loans that have a mortgage on these facilities in stock. I ask the question – if this is for some poor man who makes his house illegal on the edge of a city, why would he sell his own, with a hard-earned house, his auxiliary or economic project at all? I don't understand why at all. He is not interested in enrolling the right of property on that facility and on the land at all, he is interested in having a roof over his head. So we ask the question – who and why do we bring this law? Probably 2%-3% of those people who usurped other people's land. They are likely to benefit, or they will benefit from this law. In Article 1, you also mention the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction relating to legalisation. The provisions of this law and the provisions you mention about legalisation are similar only to being unconstitutional and mutual. As for Article 3, we could have done this, and by now, colleagues have already spoken, we could have entered if someone had property rights over the ground, he could have signed up his illegal facility to register it in the catastrus. If he was also a user on that land, he could also be registered as a holder and could have entered his illegal facility, of course with a note, into the cadastre. It's nothing new. There's just no need for it to exist. Not to talk about Article 4. The most scandalous member. I even saw that the original proposal was that no compensation for usurped other people's land was paid at all. Please, who could have thought of that? I really don't get it. When standing in a catastrus, when there is a note, some object is illegal, that is, it was built without paid utility equipment, on a foreign land, that no regulated property-legal relations and so on. And the greatest layman is perfectly clear that it's an illegal facility. Which bank is going to lend to that facility? I don't really get it. Those banks that have done this before, so from now on, they don't need someone to write down property rights on the facility in that case. Also, what are these facilities for family housing in Article 4? What evidence proves that this is a family home facility? For example, what if the facility is located on two plots? What is the solution to this problem? I would also ask the question that if the facility was built on agricultural land, would it automatically move to building land? Is there a request for a change in the purpose of land? Will this person who would sign up here with the right of property pay for a change in the purpose of this land that is extremely expensive? These are the problems we need to solve, not this. As far as this evidence is concerned, which facility was built in a certain period and falls under this law, and we also find an hour in the local community a certificate, submitted for legalisation. You can probably investigate this, or these anti-corruption fighters can do a little better to deal with it – how many legalisation applications are sold, by the date of 10 March 2010, which there is a lot of because the investor also submits a request and the owner, and then submit, for example, all family members etc. It happens all the time. The trials in which you would try to pay the country in proper compensation are lengthy, tiring and financial exhausting. There's really no effect on the fact that he's going to sign up for some property on the property and on the property, and then we're going to go into a trial, and there's certainly nothing going on with you. The law is only due to land. Yesterday we heard from Mrs. Assistant, who says – these are mostly buildings on the edge of the settlement. These are mostly own-owned facilities owned by the owner and the facility. You know, that little girl's luck spoils, mostly. But there's 2%-3%, I repeat again, these objects that are on other people's land. That's the point. Here's an example of where I came from. In the heart of Zlatibor, in the center of the most luxurious, most expensive land with a lake that is symbol of Zlatibor is usurped. With this law, it will be permanently taken from citizens, from all citizens, from tourists. You've all come to Zlatibor and you know what it looks like. They signed up for users, you know, some tens of years ago, they signed up as ground users in the heart of Zlatibor, and now they're going to sign up nicely as owners and what they care about. We've been running a dispute with them for three four years, and we can't solve it. There's a lot of problems. There's a crime of unprecedented proportions. Do you understand? We're not going to double that problem right now, we're going to double it. We're going to triple it. They'll be a hundred miles outside of the municipality, in front of local self-government in this process to get that land back. The trial absolutely won't help us. That is why, with this evidence that exists here, which is so irrelevant, they will succeed in any easy way to type in and solve their problem and to permanently end, to permanently hijack the property of tens of millions of euros, without any compensation, without any sanctions. I ask you a question – if this is brought out of the public interest, what is the public interest of illegal construction? What is the public interest in usurping other people's land? It's absolutely no public interest. You say, in your own explanation, that we protect those who are unjustly building. Please, who are you protecting? It's going to be done by law and by point. It's not there. I couldn't. Because these poor people who built without permission there, they're not going to sign up now. They're not interested in writing down property rights. We need to deal with issues of conversion and change of purpose of land. Those people, for example, I have a teacher there from Ljubish, who came to Zlatibor and the woman wants to provide for her children the salary she bought 20 years ago, so now she has no money to pay, no money to pay for the construction, no building, and she has to pay for the conversion of 50% of the market value plot on Zlatibor. Do you know what the price is? It's a disaster. We need to deal with these problems. The Republic Geodetic Institute should send these capacities, phenomenal, as it stands in the field, and with a solution to the property tax from local tax administrations, along with the funds they have received for the construction of the immobility cadastra, with ortho photo images from donations, to make one quality analysis of the situation and, it says, to make a simple own record. That's what Mrs. Assistant said yesterday, that's how we'd get it. The better the analysis of the situation, the better the legal solutions. Normally, this is the legal solution when the only input parameter was a million and 300 thousand illegal objects, I don't know by what principle. I just wanted to add one more thing. We need to understand, colleagues, that we are here for citizens, not for personal interests. We work for the citizens, and we need to make legal solutions for the citizens to be quality. We should never forget that, and we've become a "lex specialis" country. The land of the gray zone. A country where it is best to be illegal, unregistered, out of the system, etc. I'm sure that's where we'll do the best we can. Mr. Minister, there are no repairs here, as my Goldfighters would say, just to make a new one. It doesn't help anything else. It's not a sin to make mistakes. Who's doing that and making mistakes. Listen to the voice of reason and let's withdraw this law and do something new. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13124	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13125	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill that is probably proposed from the best intentions. From the best intentions to create conditions to record property somewhere, that is, the fact that someone built an illegal facility. That's what we in Vojvodina call out-of-congruent property on an object. So I've got a house that's legal, it's grantly listed in the land-based bookcase of that and that, and outside of the grant property on the shed that someone built in the middle of the garden or something. This was also defined in organised parts of Serbia by the immovableity contracts. So this is what I'm selling, and I'm selling what I can, and I'm selling what I'm selling, and it's clear to everyone that it's illegal. If in any way a record of what was illegally established, do not deny that someone had done something illegal with their money, there would be no problem. Where do we have a problem? We have a problem with the draft law, unless it amends certain amendments, questioning the respect of Article 58. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, Article 58. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia clearly defines that the peaceful enjoyment of property and other property rights acquired under the law is guaranteed. Bet 2 shows itself - property rights. So, the real property, whether it's state, whether it's private. This right of property may be withdrawn or restricted only in the public interest and established by law with a fee which cannot be lower than the market. There's a practical problem, because if my colleague, Mirko Chikiriz, has a plot, and I'm building an illegal facility on his plot. Under this bill, if it becomes a law, I will be able to sign up as owner, not only of an illegal facility, but of land under an illegal facility. And not for the misery that it is, but my colleague Mirko Chikiriz, as owner of the rest of the plot, if the rest of the plot wants to give or sell to someone else, will have to ask me, as a usurper, for consent and I will have the right to interfere with the purchase of the rest of the plot. Now, I ask – whether private interest, my private interest, in order to become the owner of the facility and the works of the usurped plot, can be interpreted as a public interest within the meaning of Article 58(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? I'm not sure that's possible. If we do not amend the law in a way that we can absolutely imitate it with constitutional provisions, we will be in a position to question the constitutionality of the law itself, and in particular Article 4. A bill that needs to become a law, and we will come into a situation, practically, that one who became the owner on the basis of an unconstitutional Article 4, what will happen, where litigation will be opened on the establishment of property rights. The one who enters, from the moment of entry into force to the moment of the Constitutional Court's determination that something is against the constitution, what's going on with it? There are huge dilemmas about the respect of the Constitution and the real relationship of legal entities in the Republic of Serbia. Secondly, which is particularly interesting, Article 11. By enrolling the right of property on an illegally built facility, the bill does not affect the rights of third parties to exercise their right to protection and the right to compensation for damages in the court proceedings. So, not me, who, for example, usurped part of Mr. Mirko Chikiriz's plot, I have no obligation to sue him in court proceedings and I am obliged to pay a court fee for filing a lawsuit, but the one from whom the property has been kidnapped must sue and exercise his rights, guaranteed by Article 1, paragraph 58, to guarantee the peaceful enjoyment of property and other property rights acquired under the law. No one can take his property rights. Let's say the Constitution doesn't apply, then anything is possible, but then we're not a state. In this regard, I discussed this on the Committee on Spatial Planning and on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Serious dilemmas are set up. Dilems on the compliance of the law with the other regulations in force have been put in place. We don't have a hierarchy of regulations between law and law. Now, this law, will it repeal the Law on Fundamental and Property Legal Relations in the Work where they differ? Will they undo those rules concerning the catastra? Are they going to overrule other regulations or not? We will remain subject to laws that are in direct contrast. Finally, very briefly, because there are a lot of colleagues who have a lot to say about Articles 4 and the evidence itself on which to register property rights. It says – if there is no evidence, public and private documents similar to the registration of property rights on land and facilities, then it can be valid to issue an invoice for payment of compensation for municipal services, water, sewerage, cleanliness, issued bill of payment of electricity, gas and similar, certified confirmation of the local community's time of construction of an illegally built facility, I do not think it should be controversial, notifying the competent authority of the administration about the possibility of legalisation of an object where it is not indicated about the possibility of legalisation or the inability of legalisation. This is about the possibility. It will be able to be entered if the notice is that it cannot be legalized. That's what it says. So it's enough to confirm when it's made and it confirms that it can't be legalized and the usurper becomes the owner, not only of its own, but also of someone else's. That is why I call on you to seriously consider each amendment with all reasons to carry out a certain record of property rights at illegal facilities. No one has any objection to such a record being made, but to touch the rights of any safe, registered, legal in favour of those who usurped other people's parcels, I think it is absolutely socially unwarranted and what is blackest in direct contrast to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13126	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Radmil Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13127	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill shows that this government does not have expertise, ability, courage, knowledge, energy to solve problems of illegal construction. You said that there were 1,300,000 illegally erected buildings in this country. You know from last year what decision the Constitutional Court made regarding the Law on Planning and Construction. If the government were able, we in parliament would be considering a new law on legalisation or amending the Law on Planning and Construction, which would give citizens of this country, who do not have a building permit, a building and use permit. This is what they need, not the right to enroll property in the cataster of immovableity. What do they need the right to sign up for when they don't have a building permit and use permission? They can't raise a loan, no bank will give them a mortgage. This is where we talked about citizens who had a difficult way of building their facilities. These citizens don't need to be enrolled in the cadastre. Far from that, they still need someone on their plots to build an object and then, with the help of the bill for electricity or confirmation of the local community, go to the building site and sign up as the owner of their country. Here you say, Minister, in the explanation that there is no EU regulation to bring this law into line. Of course it doesn't exist. In which country in the EU, in which country is such a law? Not just in the EU, tell me in what country in the world is such a law? I'm sure none. No country in the world has passed a law that violates the fundamental constitutional rights of every citizen of this country, which is the right to private property. Do you know the consequences of this law? We here all day in Parliament listen and mention the word "legalization", and you and I know, like everyone here who sits in the hall, and also citizens, that when we say legalization, we all think of the Law on Planning and Construction and retroactively obtaining a building and use of a permit. This law does not give a building permit. This law does not give us a valid permit. With this law, citizens who have not applied for legalisation within the prescribed deadline and days do not have the right to legalise their facilities. This law does not solve anything. In addition to charging a 100m-euro cadastre, except that geodetic firms will charge for the shooting of parcels, this law will not solve anything. Was it a problem, Minister, to amend the Law on Planning and Construction and to pass the Law on Legalization? I don't think for a capable government that would be a problem. But do you know what you will achieve by this law? You will achieve that the citizens will think that this law should give them building permits and then they will all come to the Catastre or they will come to the municipality thinking that this government is giving them something favourable. I can tell you that from practice. You, Minister, were the minister of capital investment when it came to legalization. That's when you told the citizens at the press conference that everyone could bring a photo of the facility, come into the municipality and they'll be able to realize their house. The citizens believed it and harassed all the municipal administration workers, which is why they can't just take a photo of the facility to exercise their rights, because that's what the minister in one government told them. For us, this government is a government that deceives citizens. Because if Prime Minister Dacic can say that citizens have listened to lies about Kosovo all these years ago, then we can absolutely say that citizens today cannot trust this government. And when you tell them that 100 euros will have the right to enroll, who knows if it won't be for 1,000 tomorrow. This parliament has already passed a law simply repealing private property, which is the Expropriation Act, relating to the "South Stream". It was worse there. There you took away the country for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia. You're doing the same thing with this law. What about the people who have been abroad, ministers, who haven't been here in years? There comes a man with a local community confirmation that he built the house before 2009, and when he returns after a year, the country will not be theirs. It gives them the possibility of this law. Is that fair, Minister? It's not. We believe that you need to withdraw this law from the procedure, deliver a new law on planning and construction, solve legalization problems and building problems in this country. Because when the LDP talked about the Law on Planning and Construction not being applicable, that too many procedures, too many papers needed for the normal issue of now's location permits, that's what nobody here wanted to listen to, and the practice on the ground is like that. You here say even in the explanation that these people will have the right to make adaptations and reconstructions. It doesn't make sense, Minister, when you know I can't. No one who doesn't have a building permit can do reconstruction and adaptation. Nothing can make these citizens, except they'll have on paper that they own an illegal facility. How much will an apartment with that kind of paper cost? If the price is 1,000 euros per square, they won't get an apartment for 200, and you know it very well. So withdraw this law from the procedure, put forward a bill on legalisation and amending the Law on Planning and Construction to solve the problem for 1,200,000 citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13128	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13129	Madam Vice-President, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I am a little concerned that you do not normally participate in this discussion today. When we thought about how much we'd be working on women's holidays today, we assumed it might take till midnight, because we're aware that the law isn't good, and that you'd be actively involved in the discussion and convincing us that it's good, because you're the promoter. I can assume that you are not in the mood, or that you lack arguments, or that you simply know that all MPs who have discussed, where our discussions are very similar because we are practically attacking the same legal solutions, and you have no answer to that. I'll also begin my discussion by reason. If you have noticed, today MPs have spoken more about these arguments than about the law itself, but we will talk more about it when the debate is in particular. It is mostly the first part of the argument, and the title is – constitutional basis. Thus, in this part, the legislator states and tells the MPs that there is a constitutional legal basis for the adoption of this law and that the Constitution in Article 97 provides, but also guarantees certain relations in the use of space, as well as property and bonding relations. It also explains that you have analysed the laws in this area, and especially the law directly relying on this Lex specialis, which is the 2009 Law on Planning and Construction. You're saying that then you've concluded that, including some other laws, it's a good foundation for you to build on it this Lex specialis. But exactly what you're saying is controversial. Today it must have been said about a hundred times here, as if you didn't know it, that recently the Constitutional Court has disputed constitutionality seems to me to be 16 members, or all of those members in that 2009 law, who regulate legalization. So the Constitutional Court told your ministry and the government that this part of the law was unconstitutional and left you with a six-month deadline to remove these shortcomings. You didn't decide to do that. Mr. Obradovic also spoke of this in detail as an authorised proposal, that you should withdraw this bill and amend this basic law that serves practically as a foundation. If you don't, then it's safe to say that you're building this law in fact one card tower, that it doesn't have a foundation. If the construction of laws and legal systems in the state is viewed as building, which is building, and it's exhausting, then it can be said that you, by this law, are also representing someone who is building illegally. Also, we don't see any reason to rush. The second question is, what kind of message are we sending to Serbian citizens? If this one is going to be called cadastrian legalization, and it's actually talking about this being a practical enrollment, but writing down where the property is going to be entered, but also on land, and it's going to cost only 10 dinars, what kind of message is that? The message is that anyone can do whatever they want. Those who have respected the law and who have really paid all the compensation and expenses, they somehow feel that we are making fun of them publicly. A colleague said he got a lot of e-mails to support this law. I get it, they could be friends and people who built a house for their family, etc., and they didn't have money for those other benefits that weren't small. God, I got a lot of text content, quote – we were crazy to pay for it, and now some in 2013 others decided that it would be forgiven for those who didn't. So people really feel kind of bad. What can also be expected is that the existence of such a law and these possibilities will not prevent further illegal construction. I fear that we, some of these laws, will encourage it again and that this law will not - well, now we will draw the line and anything further that is done illegally or without permission will collapse. I'm no expert on this area, but I've read that since 1997 this is the sixth attempt of some kind of legalization. So, were they laws, whether some government provisions etc, but mostly this is the sixth attempt. Where are we today? We're back at the beginning, where you said there are about half a million objects that are illegal today. So this law will not prevent, but this law will encourage people to do this. Why not, when it's obvious they can? I'd also like to say a few words about what you say in an explanation, which is what you said today, that this job will be done quickly and that your assumption is that it will be done in about three years. Experts in the area say it's a very short deadline, that they're skeptical, that there's not enough capacity in those bodies to work and be involved in this job to do it so quickly and that even today, if you want to book an apartment, that the process in a big city, in smaller places, is a little faster, but that book lasts half a year. What guarantees do we have that this will be possible in such a short time? Some colleagues have also highlighted the problem of local self-government, i.e. to tell citizens honestly that if suddenly a settlement is no longer illegal, it is legal and everything is entered, it is not the end of the problem. Infrastructure, municipal infrastructure, etc., and where local self-government will have money for such jobs, but from fees or, for example, urban and construction land arrangements. That's another problem we need to talk about openly. Many colleagues here have criticised that you have defined with this law the possibility of enrolling housing. I personally gave up one amendment in front of my parliamentary group, where that part is exempted. So there were a lot of words about understanding when, and it really is, a man made a house, there were a lot of people who were refugees in Serbia, so they had to sort of provide a roof over his family's head, refugees, internally displaced faces, or simply people who had just the money to build a house, but we don't understand, and therefore, we don't understand at all why you put housing. They're investors. They make a building out of about a dozen apartments, then they charge for it, and now we're going to make it possible for them to put it into possession. So I hope you accept our amendment. What worries me is that somehow in this government it becomes a habit to give parts of someone else's land to those to whom it doesn't belong and whose it isn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13130	The word has a folk MP, Jovana Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13131	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, this is about enrolling property rights on illegal facilities and land on which these facilities are located, not legalisation, as the minister has announced in some media. The law we are discussing today bears the name – the Law on special conditions for the entry of property rights on buildings built without a building permit. Already in the title is contradictory to members who follow down in law. The proposed law will not speed up the legalisation process because it does not. If this law is passed, the high probability is that there will be a complete halt in legalization. It is to be expected that those 700,000 citizens who entered the legalisation process today give up and those 500 give up. thousands who have not even launched the legalisation process can not do so now because the deadline for this was 11 March 2010 and this law did not extend it. The fact that both will become property owners of land for 10,000 dinars. The fact that they do not have a building permit and use it should not be excessively concerned because, as the promoter said, this enrolment will make it easier for them to sell their illegal facilities and will be able to provide adequate loans. They won't be bothered by the remarks that they don't have a construction and use permit. The bill promoter even says they can continue the legalisation process, but not that they are obliged to continue it. In this regard, my colleagues and I have proposed an amendment to Article 10, which says that the owner of an illegally built facility, after the entry of property rights on the facility, under the provisions of this law, has an obligation to obtain a building permit within a year, in a special procedure, or use a permit. Also, if the owner of an illegally built facility, within the time limit laid down in Article 1, does not obtain and supply a building permit, or a valid permit to the authority responsible for the registration of property rights, this authority, under official duty, will execute the deletion of the registration of property rights. Due to such solutions in the proposed law, it can be concluded that the main users of this law are the owners of illegal properties that want to sell them. The only benefit of the state is that it will have a better list of real estate. Accordingly, I hope that I understood the minister well today at the beginning of the debate, the DS submitted an amendment saying that the objects of Article 1 of this article are facilities intended for family housing, maximum gross surface area of 300 square meters; weekend houses, or holiday houses, maximum gross surface area of 100 square meters and auxiliary facilities. We've also inserted a new stance, which says that one owner can only enter one object of the appropriate type and auxiliary facility, as set out in Article 2, if it's on the territory of the same unit of local self-government. This type of facility cannot be estranged unless a building and use permit is obtained in a regular procedure. The bill before us has yet another very problematic solution when it comes to the land on which the illegal property is located. If the right to use for the benefit of a third party, natural or legal, units of local self-government, autonomous province and the Republic of Serbia is entered on those lands, the right of ownership shall be entered if compensation is paid to the owner, in accordance with the rules governing the expropriation. We could conclude from this solution that the usurpation of other people's land is treated as an activity of public interest, or expropriation, which is simply amazing. I'll remind you of Article 1. The law on the expropriation of immovableity. They may be expunged or property may only be limited in the public interest established under the law, with a fee which cannot be lower than the market price. Such a legal solution, where individuals become owners of illegal buildings, but also land, without construction and use of a permit, does not suppress illegal construction, nor, as stated in the reasoning of the law, remove the harmful consequences of illegal construction. On the contrary, the law encourages Serbia to continue the practice of illegal construction and the usurpation of foreign land and thus encourage the circumvention and disregard of the law. Also, there is no need to ignore the fact that if we continue to have hundreds of thousands of illegal objects because of such legal solutions in Serbia, some other important policies and laws, such as those, will not be possible to implement. energy efficiency policy. As we know, illegal objects can't be the subject of energy recovery, and we talked and discussed yesterday exactly the Energy Efficiency Act. I sincerely hope that the government will adopt the DS amendments, because this bill is primarily counter-constitutional, then corrupt, and at the very end of the line and contradicted by the very name of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13132	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13133	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, I really appreciate you and we have a very correct relationship. If you weren't the proposer of this law, I'd really call this law scandalous. But since it is, I will refrain from such a provision. I fully understand what motive you have when you have proposed such a law, or Ministry. You said yourself in the opening statement, that the largest number, of millions and 300 thousand illegally built objects, or their owners, are finally at peace, that they can enter property rights and that it is known to be their legal roof over their heads. The largest number of these millions and 300,000 objects that you mentioned and which are being conducted as illegal are indeed owned by the poorest people who have, who have been severely tormented, as many colleagues here today emphasized themselves, with severe torment building these objects, but unfortunately, they are not defined here as such but are proposed to enroll the right of property on all objects. Not only those used for housing, not only on individual objects, not only on objects that can be influenced by family facilities, but all objects. Article 1 states that this law refers to housing for family housing, residential business, and even weekends at home and holiday homes. What does a weekend house have to do with some basic objective of the law, which is to provide a legal roof over your head? They don't have anything to do with it. If, for example, this applies to the weekend of the house, I'm going to the bathroom, and in the national park, I'm landing three acres of forest, I'm making a cottage, and I'm saying this is mine now. I sign up, I get legal that it's my facility and I get more land. Or, for example, in the position of the 3rd article, it is said that the provisions of this law do not apply to buildings built on public land for public purposes built in the first degree of protection of economic goods and even the protection zones of cultural goods listed in the World Heritage List. Therefore, in point 3 it is said that it will not apply, and in point 4 it says – exclusively from attitude 3 it will still apply. That's really amazing. So you can build a cottage in the first degree zone or next to a protected facility that enters the world's cultural heritage, for example, the Low Fortress, sign up for legalization, or enter property rights and get more land. It's simple. It's amazing. Article 4 defines something that is true, many of your predecessors in the last 20 years have proposed different models of legalization of objects, but none of these models, or any of these legal proposals, have ever ruled out, or has never predicted that an object can be legalized without a basic condition, and that is the condition that you have your own land. Legalization of buildings on other people's land is a classic legalization of kidnapping. Imagine someone taking to build an object or part of an object on your land and asking the catastra to legalize it, or to enroll the right of property and practically take your land. You know for yourself how many property disputes there are in this country between the nearest relatives, hundreds and hundreds are being tried by their own brothers or first relatives for a piece of land. Imagine what this law will produce when some start reporting and enrolling the right of property with an object and land besides that. Or imagine when they're in such bad relationships so they don't say or come into a fight and fight, what it's going to produce. I'm afraid he's going to fall for this. These are terrible things. The biggest and most amazing provision for me is that the right of property will be entered on the basis of at least two evidence. So that I don't read everything, but let's say I set out the -- issue of a utility bill for water, sewerage, cleanliness, and, say, certified community confirmations of the time of construction, that is, based on a statement by two witnesses. Do you think that'll solve the problem? I think it'll make more chaos. Since 2003, a provision on criminal liability has been introduced in all the laws on planning and construction of those who build without permission and those who invest without permission, especially on other people's land. Now instead of hundreds of inspectors and other officials who work in municipalities or in public enterprises, or hundreds or thousands of investors who perform works, instead of being punished and going to prison, they will practically be rewarded by doing all the time what they did. The amazing provision in Articles 6 and 7 of the right of ownership on an object built without permission or which has been upgraded and built will be able to enroll the right of property. So, all those who made the facilities, got a three-story permit, and made six floors, all the investors or in translation as collectively called in the Serb people – the construction mafia will be fully privileged under this law. Everything they have built will be legalized, i.e. enrolling property rights and trading facilities, etc. It's really amazing, instead of being sanctioned. This provision fully derivates the provisions of the Law of Planning and Construction, which are completely out of force. So those provisions on the criminal responsibility of people who build without permission, upgrade, it falls into the water based on this story right here. Now to make it all look like cake cream, it is said that the owner of an object that has entered the right of property can specifically initiate the legalisation procedure. Then why do this if it initiates a special procedure? Something that's final. In Article 11, the entry of property rights on an illegally built facility does not affect the rights of third parties to exercise their property protection in court proceedings. So, I make an object or someone builds an object on my land, he can legalize it, write down property rights, and I have the right to sue him. That's totally amazing. So the benefits of this law will not be granted by the people who built it because they won't be able to get loans or to put mortgages on buildings, and the damage will be inconceivable. It's really inconceivable, and I think it's in the political interest of you to pull this thing back and do it anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13134	The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13135	The Honorable Chairman, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a serious political issue. A topic that interests Serbian citizens for years. We heard from the minister that there are 1,300,000 illegal objects and the DS thinks these people should be helped to legalize these objects. We believe that those who are socially endangered and who have no money and who do not have the opportunity to meet them and to legalize the objects in which they live. Such solutions were provided for in the Law on Planning and Construction. So it's not legalizing anything new. It was in the law since 2003, and Minister Ilic served as minister from 2004 to 2008. I suppose he's managed to legalize something during that period as well as in the last year as a minister. But this serious subject cannot be solved in such an unserious way. Today we are discussing a law that is unconstitutional, and today we are discussing a law that is contrary to other laws. So today we are discussing something that will lead to Serbian citizens being deceived. So what it says in the papers these days is that it's going to be possible to legalize with a little bit of documents, legalize for free, that's not true. I'm saying this for the citizens of Serbia. This is not a law on legalisation, this is not a law on planning and construction that would potentially change the legalization provisions that need to be changed. So, the citizens are wrong. Today, the government cheats on Serbian citizens, and the story has that they will be able to legalize buildings, which means they get a construction and use permit for their illegal facilities. That's not true, this law doesn't regulate itself at all. So, after the adoption of this law and its possible application, no one will be able to have a legal object under this law that has not yet been established. It won't be possible for any of the citizens to sign up for a mortgage and get credit based on the mortgage on his house. No one will be able to do anything with those objects. What this government has brilliantly devised is that everyone introduces their property registers, their illegal facilities, and then charges their property tax, their illegal facilities, and then charges their property tax. So, this law has the sole purpose and the only effect is to take money from citizens based on the property tax next year, so whoever signs property rights on an illegal facility will write him a note that the property is not legal, the bank doesn't give him any credit, there's no convenience, but there's a congratulations every year in the mailbox to pay the property tax, and the property tax is a progressive rate of 1%, 2%, 3%, I don't know how much. Do you really think the citizens won't see this? Do you really think someone who doesn't have any benefits from this and doesn't get a construction and use permit to sign up their property so you can charge a property tax? Guys, that's not gonna happen. On the other hand, this law represents such an inequality among citizens. Last time we talked about it, when you canceled 12 months of conversion so the tycoons could build over the next 12 months without paying what everyone else had to pay for. Now you want to introduce that you can legalize your facility on someone else's land. Guys, you can't legalize your facility on someone else's land. Or maybe he can. It could have been in 1945 and 1948. Mr. Ilic knows very well how communists did it, he can. They come, they take everything. You have now remembered the first time after them to say – it is possible for your house and your facility to legalize on other people's land. Guys, you can't do that. It can't, it never could. First, property-legal relations must be regulated on land, and then legalised. The second thing, you suggested, said a colleague from the DSS, that vacation houses could be legalized. You suggested legalizing business facilities, business buildings, factories, anything that was illegally built, no matter how many squares there are. Those who didn't go for 10 years, as you said, to the sea and have no citizens to live on, so they didn't build ten-story buildings. They didn't build hospitals, they didn't do business facilities, they didn't build factories. The one who built the hospital and the factory and the building, the one who had money to go to sea. This law pleases tycoons who did not want to pay compensation for the construction land. All of us other citizens had to pay, and everyone in this country has to pay. These tycoons don't have to pay for 10 floors. Who do you work for? This has nothing to do with poor citizens. These poor citizens, you might be cheating on them to get your property tax. You're not solving any problem with this. We debated in our parliamentary group for a long time about this law and wrote a large number of amendments and tried to make little of this law that I personally think is irreparable, because it is unconstitutional, so that it will never come to its application, to fix in case the ruling majority still decides to adopt one of these laws. We've submitted amendments that go in the direction of saying that he doesn't have to pay the fee for the first 100 squares that solves his living issue. You don't need people who are socially endangered and have nothing to live on and have nowhere else to live, to pay a fee. They don't live in 500 square meters, these people live in apartments of up to 100 square meters, so we said they can legalize objects up to 300 square meters, not a building of 10 floors, they can have apartments of up to 150, 200 square meters, gross, not apartments of several hundred squares. Not that you are legalizing, or enrolling property rights on apartments and houses in Dedinj. What does that look like? You've got buildings built on Santa in an extra zone of five floors, where two or three floors are allowed less, and now they're writing down property rights for free. It's these people who don't have to go to sea and separate from their mouths, they have ten-story buildings, exclusive facilities. This is a shame and this cannot be defined this way. Why do I say it unconstitutional? We are all witnesses that the Constitutional Court and those provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction, which are much more rigorous than this, have declared unconstitutional. Did you ever wonder why he called them unconstitutional? Because there's discrimination. You don't charge for this, and this is what you charge for. This free land, and this one had to pay for the land. It can't be done in the EU, it can't be done in any of Europe's Council countries, it can't go anywhere. Instead of passing a law on planning and building that will enable legalisation under certain rules, that there is no discrimination, you go one step further and you say that, you bring a confirmation from the local community, it's the local community of Dedinje, people work there, it's a local community next to Užička Street, and based on confirmation from the local community of Dedinja, you legalize five floors on Užička Street, you sign up property rights, and it doesn't matter. So this law should not begin to apply in any way. You talked in the opening statement, and that's what I'm going to end up with, about 1,300,000 objects, and then you put into law, that the catastran will carry out the records at 1,300,000. I don't know if you've been in Belgrade for the last six months or a year or five years, and even then from 2004 to 2008, when you were a minister, because there are a lot of pending cases, and now they're going to solve another 1,300,000 objects. Now they're going to solve 400,000 entries, they're going to do so much in Belgrade City, and they can't make 400,000 entries for the next five years, that it takes a hundred new people to do that, that's impossible. You say, the field, the pasture, the meadows on Vracar, the terraces, which hasn't changed in official duty since 1958, it's been known that the building land on the Terrace is, and what leads to it as a field? What didn't you change from 2004 to 2008, so it wouldn't be called on Field Terrace? What is that brake that rules? Kostunica's government, what law has stopped that from changing? Please reconsider this law and ask that the amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction be found here in the Assembly as soon as possible. In early May of the month, the Constitutional Court decision that has already been made will be announced, what do people who have legalized so far and under the old law do? Is everything falling into the water, anyone can dispute the writings that are, or legalizations that have been carried out. How does legalization continue, in what way, by what law? This has nothing to do with legalization. This is a record of property rights, on someone else's side, without paper, without anything, and in the end, there's a note, so that enrollment doesn't mean anything. Thank you. President (Nebojsa Stefanovic): The word has a National MP, Ljuban Panic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13136	Dear President of the Assembly, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, above all, I would like to deal with something that came from the government and the ministry that this is a law required by the EU. I welcome that Minister Ilic today agrees to meet EU requirements, when it comes to the laws in Serbia, but the EU, we have checked this as DS MPs with people dealing with Eurointegration, such a law and such a document have never sought, and it is particularly confusing with this Eurofanatism if we consider that the same Eurofanatism is to blame that in Serbian milk, the concentration of aflatoxin is so abnormally high. No one who criticises this law today is the possibility that the poor and those who, whether they have escaped or who have been forced to resolve their housing issue in this way, resolve their question. However, unclear formulations in the law, as noted by the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities where people from all political parties sit, and they deal with local self-government, says this is not only our hard opposition Rigid position, but it is a fact. The only thing citizens get with this law, to be completely simplified and clear, is paper on enrollment in a 100-euro cadastre, which confirms what we all know when we pass an illegal facility, and that this object is the man who lives in it. What's the problem? The problem is to simplify again, which is absolutely possible under this law that 10,000 squares in Zlatibor are reported as a cottage and gets the right to start developing a very serious business for a lot of small money. We have strongly criticised the Law that abolished the land conversion. For me, as MP of the Democratic Party, since even then amendments to the debate in particular have tried to influence you not to do this, this is just a logical continuation of something that I would call tycoons' assistance in this country. When the governor of the National Bank after the hearing of the man you've given the country for ten times less money, we defend that same man, I don't know with what powers and motives, I have the right to ask myself. Your argument at the time was that two billion euros in investment is waiting, there's a waiting and when we stop the conversion, there's two billion coming. Maybe I can see a little bit worse, but those two billion are gone. Someone's got the land, and you know how it ended. The Democratic Party's MP has been threatened, saying that this topic is neither simple nor easy and that the interests, when it comes to building land, are great. When you read members of the Law on alienation of other people's land, for example, I build an object on the land of my colleague Jank and I, by this law, become the owner of the building land of the same building I illegally built, promote violence. Maybe it's better if that member of the law was wearing someone else's dessert. He's causing a problem among the citizens. It's not a problem in the Hoods, the man who legally built a 100-square house, understands that man's need for someone who's tortured in those same Hoods to build a 100-square house and solve his problem. But if we don't adopt our amendments that cover 90% of people who have a real problem, which you allegedly want to help, then someone will, on purpose, mention the Hoods, when they see that according to this regulation, they get the necessary documents to open a 1,000-square-square or a 3,000-square-square clinic, without the necessary documentation, then the citizen of this country, who in a legal way, respecting all the regulations, has built something to ask himself -- what has this country decided to follow, right or not right? We'll end up with a settlement with no infrastructure. Some MPs are right to say that this is a pre-election law aimed at bringing a certain number of votes in the coming time, and apparently according to the atmosphere in the government. We will eventually get a settlement with no adequate infrastructure, no water network, no asphalt, that's what the people of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities say. I would say that this law, as well as much from this government, is dishonest, farce, such as the farce and the Aegean Channel, which was promised to the citizens of Serbia, was already supposed to employ several thousand people. The project today also limits members of the largest party of the ruling coalition, as the project is mined in each other's tabloids. Farsa as the public competitions you promised. I ask the citizens of Serbia to report to me on Facebook, one man to send me someone they know, wherever you are in power, to be elected by a public competition, and not a member of some of the parties. We've been telling you that's how it's gonna be. The law was only a mask and only a farce for the electoral body, as a fight against borrowing, and this government is in debt twice as much as the previous one. She's increased VAT and intrusions. In January, the finance ministry projections may have had the basis to be fulfilled, but February was disastrous. You will not meet what you have foreseen with the budget and it is already quite clear, as well as the higher standard you promised the citizens of Serbia, so whenever we mention it, you return to us, and the fact is that there is no big employment, and the consumer basket in Serbia is to a greater number of unemployed 20,000 dinars already. We have submitted amendments with good intentions, but I, like some of the many MPs before me, think it is wise to withdraw this law, because nothing will solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13137	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Gordic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13138	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, listening to the recent months of the announcement of the adoption of this law, then reading the text of the bill itself, I remembered a people's saying that reads – the mountain was shaking, the mouse was born. This law is another one in a series of populist moves that have become the manner of this government and government. They place themselves on our people's big stories, I guess our citizens wouldn't think that every day they're getting worse, that they're getting more unemployed, that they can buy less and less food for their money, that our children are drinking milk that, by government's decision, has the most toxins in Europe. For months, we have been listening to stories about a law that will allow our citizens to legalise their illegally built facilities for free, so that through the story of catastran legalisation, we can come to the proposal for a law on special conditions for enrollment of property rights on buildings built without a building permit. Of all the stories of free legalization, we have obtained that our fellow citizens who were so far held on illegally built buildings now have the right to property on still illegally built buildings, as well as on land on which the facility was built. All professional public dealing with the problem of legalisation, the registration of illegal objects, the disaster and the enrolment of fixed property rights, it is unanimous that the proposed law does not essentially solve anything, i.e. from a long-published law that will quickly and easily solve the problem, there is no sign. In an analysis of the effects of this law, the registration of property rights on an illegally built facility leads to legal certainty of the owner, security in the transport of immovable property and the provision of mortgage loans. This simply isn't true, and here's why? The registration of property rights on an object that was built without permission in a geo list, a list of immovableities on the facility, shows the burden that it was built without a building permit, the observation that the property rights on the facility were written off under this law, the observation that the unmistakable fee for building land was below the facility. Each of these burdens is limited when it comes to any traffic, an estimate of the value of the facility, as well as the possibility of mortgageing the facility. What kind of bank will assess the real value of a facility like this and verify a plea statement under favourable conditions for the owner of the facility? When it comes to the transport of the facility and so far, the investor of the facility, as a registered holder, could sell the facility, as the state traffic is allowed under applicable laws. The claim that the procedures and costs have been reduced also does not stand because they are the same as half of the laws in force so far. The shooting of an object by a geodetic organisation is about 100 euros, conducting a change in the competent service for the cadastre around 80 euros. Only this procedure solves the question of enrolment of property rights on the facility and the land below. The owner is still awaiting legalisation procedure with competent authorities, local self-government, obtaining construction and use permits, paying compensation for the construction land, solving the plot's problem. Of course, if the adoption of one of these laws does not stimulate citizens to continue the legalisation process of their facilities, which, due to the failure to pay compensation for the construction land, would inevitably lead to the devastation of the entire system, the planning of the building land, because at the level of local self-government there will be no funds for municipal and infrastructure projects in illegal settlements. Thus, by passing these laws and laws, the owners of illegally built objects are mistaken for having solved something, and in fact they are not. The advantage is only for citizens in cities where the refurbishment of the diameter was carried out and, on the basis of it, adopted a catalogue of immovableity, such as this, in Užica and Novi Pazar, where all the facilities were recorded and entered into the cadastre and thus the citizens were freed from the fees for recording and recording of these facilities. They're left with, like everyone else, legalization procedures. The very text of the law is so bad that I wonder if it's even possible for amendments to bring it to its end? The text of the law is full of illogicality. For example, Article 1(1) of the Law puts in the same context objects without a building permit which are subject to this law and objects which do not have the right of use, which are built on the basis of a duly issued building permit and cannot be subject to this law. I suppose it means that if a building that does not have a building permit is subject to the right of property, the same right can be obtained by an object that has a building permit? For the same reason and the existence of a Member of the Sixth Law is a complete nonsens. In addition, the right of property on buildings which have been built according to the orderly building permit and registered and so far under the applicable State measure and cadastre Act under Article 97. Because of the insufficient definition of objects subject to this law, the door to corruption is open. For example, the craftsmanship facility can have thousands of squares. The law also contains a number of other risks to corruption, which has also been declared by the Anti-Corruption Agency. The law promotes the interests of the person whose facilities are located on the surfaces of public purposes in protected zones by allowing under special conditions to enter the right of ownership on these facilities, and for which reason we have sought through the amendment to delete the fourth position in Article 1 of the Law. Paragraph 1 of Article 4 of the Law allows the registration of property rights on the building land for the benefit of the owner of an illegally built facility if this facility is built on land which is owned or registered on it for the benefit of a third party, natural or legal person or unit of local self-government, AP or Republic. In this way, the Constitution directly violates the guaranteed right of the property of the individual, Article 58 of the Constitution, as it gives priority to lawless builders, i.e. landowners, and also promotes private interests, contrary to public interest. This law will also jeopardise the right of those of our citizens who, through the process of restitution, are trying to reach their previously seized assets. This law also violates the Constitution-guaranteed right of equality of citizens, as they are brought into an unequal position by citizens who have paid compensation for the construction land, both in the ordinary procedure and in all previous legalisation procedures. Therefore, the objectives and expected effects of the adoption of this law are not encouraging since this bill does not address the fundamental problems of legalisation. Legalisation should include comprehensive solutions that involve solving the problem of pitches, restoring diameters, exposure to public insights, solving property-legislative relationships of sellers, legalising the facility and enrolment in public books. Instead of this and this law, it could simply be accessed to amend the Law on Planning and Construction and the Law on State Time and Catastrophe, to change several members and the effect would be the same. This way, from so much announced free legalization, we only get to enroll property rights on still illegally built objects, where only form is fulfilled, and nothing essentially changes. I sincerely hope that by accepting the DS amendments, the government will apply the law to what should be its primary objective, which is to register buildings built without a building permit and register property rights on them, and in order to further legalise objects throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia and mass property registration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13139	The word has Minister Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13140	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you have noticed, I have kept silent, listened, recorded what you have spoken about, what you have discussed, what remarks you have made, and now it is my turn to answer you. Maybe one lady here is fine and she noticed that I kept my mouth shut, not because I had nothing to say, but I kept my mouth shut out of one respect. There's been a lot of criticism from certain ladies. I don't want to criticize them on their holiday, March 8th. I've had the insight to keep quiet and many insults that have been and many stories and many criticisms of the law, which are unfounded. You didn't listen to my opening statement. I was very correct to say that many of the remarks you discussed here, almost everything, were adopted and accepted. That's what you'll get when the debate starts in detail. In the opening statement, I explained that we used some things and I insisted that they be accepted as ministers, because I didn't write the law as a minister. That was done by a group that had 54 people who participated in this. It's very ugly when someone comes out here, a lady lawyer, and she says they don't know anything. It doesn't make sense. That's what some people did. Those same people were doing some other laws. Some of these laws, which were made in 2009, were declared unconstitutional. We're changing them. We got a six-month deadline to make a new law on planning and construction. I wasn't defending him or talking about him. The greatest critics passed this law today and put it in the process and announced it as a boom in the legalization process. I didn't say big-square objects would be legalized. I said they'd be registered with a note that certain property legal relations were resolved and given a two-year period. Objects that are indisputable and do not have any dispute regarding property will be entered and will be full and will be able to be mortgaged and everything else. Today I heard that many have information from some banks that nothing can be accepted, nothing will be valid, that this sucks some work, all this promotion is electoral, pre-election, there will be elections, etc. The election won't be soon, don't worry. This isn't an election campaign. The election will be when the time comes. We do, and we don't wait for the election to do it for the election. We're doing this because this is what the citizens of Serbia want, the ones I've been talking about. Through amendments that have been accepted more clearly defined which objects cannot be legalised. You were saying it's impossible without a project to legalize the facility. Can't, but enrollment in the cataster of the immobilities of undisputed objects, especially less square objects, where they're not public gatherings, they're used for personal needs of the family, they can. What does one project of an object that was done 40 or 30 years ago mean? It's a waste of money to fictitiously make project documentation that goes to some basement on some shelf, costing tens or thousands of euros. Who needs it today? You'll know what the static is, what's in the ceilings, what's in the columns, what's in the profiles? Do you know how much it costs for the institutes to establish it and question it? For a private facility up to 150 square meters, it costs 10,000 euros. For large facilities over 100,000 euros, it costs a complete examination of the facility to provide valid project documentation for obtaining a building permit. Do you know that this is sometimes more expensive than the object itself after certain depreciations that were seen on it? Why force citizens to pay for something that's fictional, which has nothing to do with anything, no grounds, pro forms, and put it in some basements to stand to satisfy some form. It is true that the facilities of public gatherings, these large objects we talked about, which are the subject of public gatherings of citizens, will have to be legalised in a way that respects certain criteria such as fire protection, then comes out for the potential needs of emergency situations, etc., in order to avoid any tragedies. That's obvious. Without that, no one can make them official. It is true that the objects that are disputed will be entered with a notation that does not have it, will only be entered and given a time limit until a particular documentation that is necessary has to be obtained. Objects for personal need for housing and facilities, you heard this well in the opening exhibition, up to 100 squares, business facilities, will be entered without any problems and cottages up to 100 squares used for the needs of housing. It is true that no buildings in power lines, in routes, in roads, in intersections, in national parks will be able to do so. It has a special treatment. But well, it's all a campaign and it's all a story. Now I'd ask some people who are close to banks, and they know everything, what banks decide, what happens. How is it that a political party got a loan from the bank, which is due to develop Serbia and which uses the funds of Serbian citizens for its development, to win for a political campaign? Is that legal? Is that constitutional, gentlemen of the law, that you lectured me here for hours? Show me a member of the Constitution where it says it? How are you gentlemen lawyers, who have spoken well today, among you and one elite lawyer who I know very well and the other who is involved in this, how do you get a loan of 300,000 euros without any paper, without a construction permit, without the State Revised Commission, without a study of justification and spent with the blessing of the previous Finance Minister 200,000 euros, and now you have come to me to make you documentation and to cover it for you because it is a state interest? How do you do that? And some peasant, from the Lower Babushnica, or somewhere, you're going to chase him to bring you the paperwork for the barn or for the barn he did. Gentlemen, where were you then when the concession was unconstitutionally shut down, the biggest investment in Serbia's history, with an unconstitutional Council for the Infrastructure of Serbia, which the Constitutional Court declared unconstitutional? Why does a billion-euro investment fail, and today we have to do it again? Who taught you that the head of state could be the working body of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and make such a decision? Where does that say? Now you remember the Constitution, now you remember the law, because you're in opposition, and while you were in power, you didn't think of it. I'm not going to criticise some MPs here right now, but there have been discussions about public parks, stories... Gentlemen, because of a public park in Zlatibor, and the construction works that were carried out, and the documentation that was made there, I replaced the complete management of construction and urbanism in the then government of the Republic of Serbia when I was minister. But that's why no one in the municipal leadership was even punished there by reproof. For corruption, bribery, falsified documents, I replaced the secretary of state and two assistants and a full staff. Because it was discovered that there was bribery, corruption, etc. This continues to be done today in the municipality of Chatin, young lady. No one there was missing hair from their head. They did it together. They didn't come from Belgrade alone and sign it and do it, but they all did it together. It's nice on Zlatibor when the Montenegrin mafia comes and buys half of Zlatibor. They build what they want, they pay for it, then they slaughter. He can do anything. Gentlemen, do you know that now some large overpasses are working without a single paper, without even one permit? Credits are being used, and we don't know who can or can't do it anymore. Are you asking me to send in inspection services and stop everything? Do you know that your jewel that was made, the bridge on Ada, doesn't have the right permission? Do I have to shut him down for traffic tomorrow? Do you know that the bridges that were built on the Danube should be closed, as well as the bridge on the Sava? Do you know that the bridge at Tissa near Sainta should be closed legally because it was released without any documents? Your people came into the campaign and said, "Let go of the bridge." You know he doesn't have any paper, right? Now I have to send an inspection and say, close everything. Do I have to order in Bor by order of the inspector who wrote that all the facilities worth 180m euros collapse and return everything to its proper state? Am I supposed to respect that or not? Do I have to look through my fingers and you're here to tell me stories? I came here today to arrange for this poor woman of ours to build and build, to help legalize it. What's not a poor thing to put into regular flows to make documentation and to apply it, to do it right, so that we can function. Not to be two and a half million Serbian citizens who don't have any property, and in fact everybody does, but they don't have it on paper. You said everyone pays property taxes and we do this to collect property taxes. He can't until he's enrolled in the Real Estates Catastre and he's verifying no one to pay a tax on property. All those who refused to pay, entered the court dispute, brought confirmation that they did not own property in a particular municipality were exempt from paying taxes. No one can charge you if you don't own it officially and if you don't own it. So here we are gathered to make a deal through one discussion. Let's make this people happy that we did something serious and get to work. Let's realize there's no more wild construction after this. Dot. There isn't. A building permit under the new law, which will soon come here to parliament and I will defend it before you, will not be paid at the beginning. It'll be free. Only until the permit is used will it settle the obligations of the municipalities and cities for what has been invested in the facility. Don't let it happen like today when Prime Minister Dacic and I showed up in Stepa's neighborhood while there was a break. The city has charged 21 million dues for the arrangement. You know what's done? Nothing. So I ask Mr. Antic, and we ask Mr. Dacic to intervene when the man who, they say, promised to do it as soon as possible and to cheer up this people who live upstairs. They have a nice parking lot, they have everything, but they don't live in the mud. It's the most modern settlement in which 20,000 people will live. There'll be malls, kindergartens, schools, and all that we have to do together. There's no money. We have a lot of problems, both in the city of Belgrade and in all of Serbia. Let's use what we have somehow. Let's not just welcome everyone to the knife, attack everything, criticize everything. We are your amendments that have accepted the good. Anything that improves will be accepted. It's a sin not to accept it. I wouldn't be a normal person if I didn't accept something that was reasonable. You have excellent amendments, you, DSS, SNS and many others who have submitted the amendments. Amendments have been accepted. We want to improve the law together. You'll see we've accepted them. Don't do anything right now. We have to do this. We need to sign up the facilities. We must increase Serbia's potential. These people don't exist with objects, they can't use them. They're the ones who spend the most energy and waste it. Do you know that 50% of the houses, not even isolated from the outside, are in the private sector, which have been used for years, throughout Serbia? Do you know what those losses are? They don't have anything to discourage them with. We have to help them. If we put them in, they'll be able to get the funds and end it. This is how we are the largest energy wasteers in Europe, and the other in the world per capita and per single production. My intentions are good. Someone here mentioned the Hoods. Right, I worked at that facility, but I pulled out a building permit, settled everything. That's what you've been checking multiple times. I didn't get anything, and I paid everything, and I had to do everything myself, just like a lot of citizens did. It's all done with a building permit. You can check that out. And the fire road, which you ordered me to do on the mountain, and I did. Do you know that your Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Djelic, has opened the Delta City without a building permit, on my notice as the then minister? When I vetoed, he said – no matter what minister, I'm going to open it. You know there's no fire road there, nothing? There's a fire escape in the Hoods for every facility and the Delta City doesn't have to. Afterwards, some documentation was obtained, perhaps after a year. Do you know how many objects are open without a single paper? Don't ever do that again. Neither us nor you nor any of us should think of opening something that's a public facility without a building permit. Don't let anyone open a school, no paperwork, no permission. We have to fight together to make it and do it. I hope that's what we're gonna do. Do you believe that the government would survive and get some MPs, do you know that one part of the highway, which is some kind of political compromise, works without a single piece of paper? You don't know. What am I supposed to say, crash the highway and file criminal charges? If I did, I'd have a thousand criminal charges I'd have to sign tomorrow. Here, it was working. Bridges were made politically, invested politically, built, worked without a single paper. One of the politicians comes in and says, "Make a bridge on Tisa," and they say, "I understand, boss," and there's nothing. Now he says, "Let go of the bridge." He says, "We have nothing, there's no fence left." It doesn't matter. There's a campaign going on. That can't happen to us. We have to fight together. We have to be friends. We have one goal. We're sitting here now, and tomorrow, you, the day after tomorrow, will be the third. But this is something in common. It wasn't easy for me as a minister when they called me and said, "Stop, let go." It's thousands of workers, they're not getting paid, they're pulling our credit. It's everyday. What am I supposed to do now, say - can't? Everyone would hang me. So there's a lot of things we have to do together to get in line. No law is ideal, but it's better than that. We don't have any laws now. No one can legalize anything today, no one can. Let's do it if you want, and I hope you will. We have good intentions and we have to build. It's not simple. Don't think someone's going to make it easy for us. Don't think someone's blocking it. It's not true that it's blocked. Every day investors come here, I say responsibly and ask them to invest in Serbia, but we don't have enough paper, documentation. It's not given for projects, for audits, for surveillance, etc. There's no money. It's sad when someone gives us credit, and we say – give us an expropriation, give us an audit of the projects. We can't start, we don't have to pay for the audit. It's sad, and we all have to work together on it. So I'm asking you to leave the party stories for a second chance. This is a serious question for Serbia. This depends on a lot of what-what in Serbia we discuss together. Let's not talk about this now, this will be, it will be. We have to sign up because we made a contract and signed an agreement and use a satellite that uses the whole of Europe as a cadastre. There are not half of the facilities in Serbia on our satellite. They say, "Why do you need a satellite? What do you do when you do not exist?" We're not some Indians now that we can't put it in and put it in the motion-place and that the whole world can do it with us, that it doesn't come to Serbia to measure, to go. It's not true that no air footage was made. Almost every municipality has been built. I don't know if it's done anywhere. We're paying almost every municipality and we've got everything and we can get it in fast. Thirty lawyers have been admitted who will work on it and they are in training and another 200, 300 people will be received if they have to do so and they will be paid to hire young people, professional people to do so, to lead and to continue to lead properly. That's the goal of this government. So, let's make a deal, I'll listen to you. We'll discuss it Monday, since we didn't get permission to continue work until 6:00. After that, we'll continue to discuss this on Monday. Nice to meet you. I was patient while you were talking. Believe me, I've listened to you all quite correctly. I've all listened to you correctly. I didn't throw anything away. I didn't say anything offensive to anyone. I'm not mad at anyone. I understand the opposition. I've been in opposition for years. I've criticized you all the time. Don't spare me now, either. It's just work, 'cause I didn't save you either. Fair enough. But now you're making a move to criticize and I understand that. I'm sure we'll talk about this on Monday. You will be pleased to see the amendments that have been accepted and, when you look at it, that law will be quite solid one law. What you said about the property is that it's against the constitution, and we brought it in, along with some of your suggestions, and we agreed as much as possible. Besides, I can't tell you right now, because a lot of things you know yourself, they can't fit into the Constitution right now, 90% of the things that are done and brought, and that's what you know. You know that well when you were power. When you were in power, you knew that well. That's why the Constitutional Court is doing its job. (Send Group DS casts: Why did you bring such a constitution? I didn't bring it, we all brought it together. But you've had some negotiations, conversations, you've deviated from the Constitution as long as you want. Don't talk about every little thing now, and you found a little something here, so let's talk. This Serbia must live and work. We'll bring the Constitution in fine, everything will be fine, if there's more cooperation. So we try to make this right and it will be right. Once again, may the ladies be happy on March 8th. You've been a little more critical. This beautiful lady was a great critic, and I'm not angry. But we'll keep talking about this on Monday. I welcome you and thank you for your cooperation. Once again, thank you to all the MPs who through the committees have managed to make this law a little bit better. We also accepted the people who did what they did to make some mistakes. You helped remove it. Thank you very much. We'll continue to work safely. It'll be all right.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-08-0.u13141	Thank you. We'll continue work Monday at 10.00 hours.
