ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19697	Thank you. The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is an extremely important day for the Ministry of Justice and State Administration. I am convinced that the good work of the MPs, all of us together today, and by adopting a proposal for strategies, this will become a very important day for the Serbian judiciary. The first are before lawmakers at the same time two documents of strategic importance to establish a quality and effective and judicial system to strengthen the rule of law in the Republic of Serbia, a proposal for a national justice reform strategy and a proposal for a strategy to fight corruption and both for the period from 2013 to 2018. Let this be addressed by talking about the National Strategy for Justice Reform. When the previous Justice Reform Strategy was adopted in 2006 for the period from 2006 to 2011, the forecasts of those who created and implemented this reform were that the new network of courts and prosecutors would result in a reduction in the number of cases left behind, a shorter duration of court proceedings and lower budget expenditures. Unfortunately, the results of the analysis which was carried out before the start of work on the new strategy were carried out with the aim of precise measurement and assessment of the results of the previous strategy and the action plan followed by complete defeating: the unsatisfactory work of the High Council of Justice and the State Council of Prosecutors, the multiple shortages of the newly formed network of courts and public prosecutors with a multi-million-dollar backlog in solving cases, the unsatisfactory burden of courts and judges with the number of cases and the excessive duration of court proceedings, the replacement of a large number of first-degreed judicial units, have enormously increased the travel costs of participants in judicial proceedings, the costs of maintenance and the provision of facilities in which courts were once held, and citizens have been injured by the right to access to justice, especially when the affected categories of the population, such as the elderly, poor or the sick. The issue of reintegration into the justice system of judges, public prosecutors and their deputies, who had been deprived of judicial and prosecutorial functions for three years, opened. As a result, the state had huge budget expenditures while increasing the number of pending cases. Starting work on the new strategy, as priorities in the next five-year period, we have singled out the following: reintegration of judges and public prosecutors who were not elected in 2009 into the judicial system, solving of lagging cases and speeding up judicial proceedings, improving the status of the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, with an equivalent regulation of the issues of their responsibility, unifying judicial practice and establishing an E-Justice system, the electronic judiciary. Our goal is to build an independent and impartial judiciary where professional, responsible, quality and efficient justice deserves the trust of citizens and which makes justice accessible and accessible to them. The biggest challenge on this road is not to reach these five key principles, but to achieve an ideal balance among them. Only in a situation where the independence of the judiciary is accompanied by proportionate responsibility and where efficiency does not involve speed, but also legal, professional and impartial treatment with a rational availability of resources, can we talk about a successful and functional judicial system. This kind of balance is not achieved by sudden and dramatic cuts, as it was made in 2009, but by constantly monitoring the functioning of certain segments of both the entire system and the overall system, with the implementation of measures that achieve its gradual but continuous improvement. The construction of such a system is a long-term and painful process that requires maximum engagement, both on an institutional and on an individual level. Measures that, with great effort, mean much pain and severe temptations are ahead of us. It's not said for no reason - angry grass on an angry wound. Taking into account this fact, the ministry has already taken steps to address the problems that we have identified as priorities in the past, as well as in parallel with its follow-up. In this regard, in the previous year, it has worked intensively to design a new judicial measure that would also remove problems with increased costs and difficult access to justice, which was brought by the 2009 reform, and has enabled reintegration of judges and public prosecutors who have been returned to office, the next Constitutional Court rulings. Eighty-two perpetrators have also been appointed, and another 28 are currently being appointed. The public-recording exam has so far been passed by 92 candidates, reaching the number of candidates needed to establish the public register chamber has become certain. This will enable the establishment of one of the systems, whose role in discharging courts is crucial. Although the period of nine months, as long as the text of the new strategy and the reform of the judiciary lasted, was apparently not so long, the path that we came across was extremely complex and all the subjects of importance for the judicial reform process participated in it. On this road, on the one hand, it was necessary to respond to the requirements set before us by the worrying situation in the judiciary, while, on the other hand, it was necessary to achieve the objectives defined in the European integration process. At the same time, awareness of limited resources was a limiting factor and forced us to analyse solutions that would reconcile needs and possibilities. When nine months ago, by analysing the results of the implementation of the previous strategy, we started working on the text on the strategy ahead of us, we saw not only the sea of almost unsecured problems in the Serbian judiciary, but also the huge mistrust of the professional and scientific public, but also the citizens and representatives of the international community. This is understandable, given that earthquakes that have thus been rocked by our judiciary survived due to poorly designed and even worse implemented reforms in 2009. The suspicions existed, both in the ministry's real determination to make fundamental and quality changes, and in its openness to the suggestions that came from both judges and prosecutors, and from international experts. We are proud to point out that the proposal for a strategy adopted last week by the government and forwarded to the National Assembly is the result of the dedicated work of the working group formed on 3 January this year, which included all the entities that are important for the successful creation of the reform, with the permanent support of the Ministry of Justice and the state administration, as well as the World Bank consultants. The first working version of the strategy was published on 4 March. Since then, until the establishment of the Strategy Proposal, therefore, almost four months old, how constantly advanced versions of the text were available for comments on the Ministry's website, there have been numerous comments and suggestions from both the judge, prosecutors and representatives of the academic community, but also from professional associations and EU experts, representatives of international organisations and the NGO sector. As all these proposals are thoroughly considered and largely respected and entered into the text of the strategy, it has thus become a fruit of the work of a much wider circle of people than it is of the members of the working group. The strategy was first held during a public debate on the first working version of the March 20th text in Belgrade, and then round tables in the second working version of the text of the strategy, in the seats of appeals courts in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac and Nis, on May 18th and 19th, as well as the second public debate in Belgrade on 22 May. Judges from different types and degrees of courts, public prosecutors, or deputy public prosecutors from different types and degrees, representatives of scientific institutions, civil society, relevant state bodies, representatives of the international community, particularly representatives of the OSCE Offices, the European Commission and the Council of Europe, as well as other representatives of the professional public, participated in these expert meetings. The quality of the text of the strategy was also significantly affected by the fact that, in parallel with the work on the strategy, 28 working sub-groups were held for the development of the Action Plan for the implementation of the strategy, through which activities were more clearly raised by a number of issues concerning which certain concerns existed. This approach to work on such an important document and openness to suggestions has met with the approval of both the professional public and the international partners. In this way, we have created a system of reform steps that represents a pyramidal structure made up of the Strategy and the Action Plan, at which the idea of creating a more efficient and quality judiciary is at the top, which, through basic principles, strategic objectives, strategic guidelines and concrete measures and activities is developed into a complex but consistent system of action of all entities relevant for implementing the reform, with precise deadlines in which they should implement the envisaged measures, but also precise sources of funding. Finally, it was also about something that was rarely ignored in our practice, which is avoiding the gaps between the objectives, i.e. the measure for their implementation of the strategy and the Action Plan that could be achieved, given the very long five-year period to which the documents and the related ones were concerned. It therefore provides for the possibility of a periodic update of the Action Plan, which will contribute to its quality as well as to the successful implementation of the objectives set. This strategy overcomes three kinds of problems. The reform of the judiciary is a process that is unique to every country that is turned to its citizens and that provides conditions for their better lives. The law tends to life, not itself. There must be a change in the rule of law. Secondly, our society is a society in transition. The change in the socio-economic system has been imposed as necessary and a change of rights, especially civil. With a change of opportunities, it has to change right. The troubles of Serbian society lie in the fact that, unfortunately, society was changing much faster than justice. The third problem that this strategy needs to overcome is a previously unsuccessful reform of the judiciary. The strategy envisions further strengthening the independence of judicial institutions, through capacity-building that would allow the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors to assume jurisdiction. Also, one of the key objectives in this area is to reduce the influence of the legislative and executive authorities on the decision-making process under the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, as well as the election of judges and public prosecutors. The establishment of a career system for legal holders is also foreseen. It is impossible to reach a high-quality and efficient judiciary without establishing a balance between independence and the responsibility of holders of the same functions, as well as their advice. This is only possible through the final development of objective and transparent standards for the assessment of the exercise of judicial functions, the pursuit of judicial progress as well as administrative and auxiliary affairs. When it comes to improving the impartiality of the quality of justice, the strategy in the next period puts in place a level playing field through the establishment of a certified body that would deal with the selection of best practice. One of the main features of the Serbian judiciary must become legal predictability, which today has only in its outlines or is almost gone, which is one of the main reluctance features of our country for serious foreign investment. In addition, it provides for the establishment of comprehensive free and in accordance with the relevant regulations of all available electronic law bases in court practice, as well as the establishment of services for assistance and support for damaged and witnesses. This strategy envisions a significant strengthening of the position of the judicial academy. Strengthening its capacity is essential for establishing completed initial training as a necessary prerequisite for the choice of judges and prosecutors. It is important to note that we will not leave behind a number of judicial and prosecutorial associates and assistants, but we will allow them to integrate into the new system, either through the choice of career calls for assistants, or through the judicial academy. The paper is the introduction of continuous training, not only by judges and public prosecutors, but also by their associates and assistants, as well as administrative staff. As we are already well aware, the Serbian judiciary faces the problem of extreme inefficiencies. The solution to this problem is recognised in the strategy as the most urgent issue, because it is precisely this problem that concerns a citizen, an ordinary man who came before the court to seek justice. In this context, a complex system of measures has been put in place in the strategy, which will, with consistent implementation, inevitably produce results in terms of speeding up court proceedings and reducing the number of cases left behind. These measures mean first the initial correction of the network of courts and public prosecutors. Then and continuously monitor its efficiency through a new methodological model that will be developed by the end of this year. This monitoring will allow for constant correction and correction. In this way, we will get a network that improves from year to year, with no negative consequences that followed the 2009 reform, which was created precisely because of random cuts due to the real analytical background. In addition to the correction of the network, the strategy provides for changes to procedural laws. Dispersion of judges from administrative affairs which are now being carried out as well as investment in infrastructure. One of the most urgent measures will be the creation and implementation of a single programme to solve old cases that will be applied in the territory of the entire country. Similar programmes were previously in co-operation with USAID, conducted in several courts and produced exceptional results. A huge contribution to the efficiency of the judiciary will give and develop electronic justice. So in parallel with the justice reform strategy and the anti-corruption strategy, the ministry also worked on making so-called. ICT strategy. Finally, part of this system of measures that are expected to contribute enormously to discharging the judiciary and increasing its efficiency, which I mentioned earlier, has already begun intensive development, is the establishment of a functional system of judicial professions, public notaries, and mediators. Teached by a poor experience related to the implementation of the previous strategy, this time we will focus all our strengths on establishing such mechanisms to ensure that the implementation of the measures envisaged by this strategy and the action plan, as well as the control of the efficiency of this process, are independent of the will of the individual and of the day-to-day political developments. Since the start of work on the strategy, we have tried to develop awareness among all reformers that, by building and adopting a strategy and action plan, our work on judicial reform is not ending, but that unless we do our best to create a functional and sustainable system of their disputed work, the texts we have made will remain just a dead letter on paper. In this respect, in addition to the already mentioned precision of the entities responsible for implementing concrete measures, as well as the setting of precise deadlines and the selection of the means for their implementation, it is necessary in particular to highlight the mechanisms for ensuring the effective implementation of the strategy, which include the establishment of a mixed commission representing all key subjects of the reform, thus ensuring the sustainability of its functioning and preventing the favouring of the interests of certain judicial system actors. In addition to the equal and broad representation of these solutions, the Commission's operational responsibility was taken into account, and the establishment of secretariats to support it. The belief that this strategy is enforceable and that it builds, not destroys the system, is the fact that the constant pain of non-compliance with government policies and strategic acts is finally overcome. For the first time, five strategies have been brought into line and this is the Strategy for Justice Reform, the Anti-Corruption Strategy, the Public Administration Reform Strategy, the Criminal Sanctions Implementation Strategy and the Strategy for Development and Information and Communication Technologies. Finally, I would like to point out that I am convinced that the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration has sent a clear message of genuine commitment to the reform process with its openness to co-operation and engagement in the process of drawing up strategies and action plans, as well as the determination not to repeat any errors of any predecessor. Instead of repeating them, we learn from them. We are not and will not allow the strategy to be a project that ignores the real needs and possibilities of our judicial system. It is not the role of the ministry to impose reforms on others as has happened rarely in our entire system. The ministry seeks to fulfill the role it belongs to in this process, which is to be the hub of a reform process that supports all other entities that play a role in judicial reform while changing and promoting themselves. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is the second act in front of you to propose a strategy to fight corruption. The first Anti-Corruption Strategy was adopted by the National Assembly decision of 08 December 2005. It was only late 2006 that the government adopted an Action Plan for the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy. That same year, the government educated the Commission for the Implementation of the Strategy and the country's recommendation to fight corruption, GRECO. So, since the adoption of these two documents, it's been eight years. Are the current Strategy and Action Plan valid documents? Have these documents been completed and have all the capacities of the current Strategy been used? The important strategy is incomplete. He doesn't deal with a lot of things. The example works, education and health care almost doesn't even mention it, like there's no corruption in these parts of society. The current Action Plan does not specify the objectives set out in the strategy. One of the reasons for this is probably also the time gap that existed from the moment the strategy was adopted until the moment the action plan was adopted. However, the biggest flaw in the long-term application process of these two documents is the lack of a clear way of monitoring the fulfilment of the obligations provided for in these two acts. So today we don't know about many sectors, what has really been achieved, what percent or what has made it difficult to apply. Were those bad regulations, lack of personnel capacity, lack of material resources, or perhaps lack of political will? What exactly are the circumstances that led to the easy or difficult achievement of the objectives for the taxpayers of this strategy? According to the International Transparency Corruption Perception Index, Serbia ranks 80th out of 176 independent states, with 39 of the possible 100 points. Serbia has not improved its score in six years in a row on this index. The justice ministry and the state administration formed a working group to write a new strategy last year. The task force is formed in broad form. All the bonds of the strategy gave their representatives. The first work text was presented on the Ministry's internet presentation in early March of this year. We immediately organized expert groups for each part of the strategy, and then the writing of the action plan began. So this strategy was done at the same time as the action plan. Today's action plan is largely over and awaits the adoption of the government as soon as possible. Both documents were made with regular consultations with EU partners. Corruption is a violation of the law. When a society has such a high degree of corruption as ours, it means that individuals are illegally rich, that citizens become increasingly poor, and institutions disappear. There is no investment, no economic development, no employment. Society is even poorer, and individuals are getting richer. Since the state is impoverished, its administration is destitute in personnel. No good frames, no good public administration. Resources are used badly, not deployed properly, so we get into a situation where we don't even have where we have them. As I said, the state is getting poorer, the citizens are getting poorer, and the individuals are even richer. We therefore need a good general plan to fight corruption, a strong legal framework to fight corruption, laws, sublaws, trained individuals, civil servants, judges and prosecutors, doctors, teachers, capable and motivated for this fight and with clear guidelines. This strategy, on the one hand, is exactly that -- a clear guideline, and on the other hand the biggest test for the Serbian government. A test of whether or not there will be enough strength and will to achieve what is drawn and whether sufficient resources will be allocated to implement this full capacity strategy. The Serbian government has so far shown an exceptional will and willingness to calculate with corruption and organised crime. The national strategy is to show motivation to continue the systemic struggle. As the root of the struggle, the strategy obliges the state authorities to act legally. We're not even a little happy that we're forced to say this, but that's our reality. In previous years, the National Assembly passed a number of laws, the president confirmed them, and then we ask the question – are these laws fully and consistently applied? In Serbia, the ministries are able to write their laws, the government suggests, the assembly majority adopt them, but when it comes to applying, there is no or partial application. No funds provided, no personnel trained and no political will. The laws must be applied, but the question is, how? Efficient and transparent. State authorities must not wait when it comes to corruption, and the public must have full insight into the work of those authorities. Political corruption is the worst corruption that can affect a society. It is easy for the state to cope with the corruption in health, with corruption in energy or sports, the necessary measures are foreseen, and you have very fast results. But what if corruption has affected the state system itself, if corruption is in the parties as well, those who fight for the trust of the people, who enter the Assembly, vote the laws and elect ministers? Who will then fight in different sectors of society if there is corruption at the very top? In the previous period, the Law on the financing of political activities was adopted. This law is not consistently applied, so it has never been applied. Its changes are necessary to ensure consistent and complete application. We need to strengthen our capacities with the DRI and the Anti-Corruption Agency. It must be possible for the public to take part in making important decisions for society. Fighting corruption doesn't just mean fighting at the highest state level. There must be a struggle at a lower level, both in the province and in the local. The commitments of this strategy also relate to lower levels of government, as responsibility must be sought from them. The main way of funding the state is public revenues. If the state doesn't keep proper records of public income and let corruption exist here, if the money instead of the government register ends up in someone else's pocket, then we're making a clean loss out of income. Instead of buying a mammographer's money, buying a new school bench, equipping our soldiers and cops, we're making someone a cottage, buying a yacht, financing someone's private business empire. One part of this problem can be overcome by strengthening the system of e-taxes, which would open the tax administration to the public. Also, in our personnel records system, they're not related to property records and revenues. These data can be linked through a unique identification tax number. This will make it much easier to monitor the property of officials and also to fund political parties. This also applies to customs. Customs regulations must be fully applicable. Customs must be paid to the state, not to a corrupt individual. A special section will also be established within customs to control the application of the rules. We're not good at choosing incomes, but in their purposeless spending, as a society, we'd say we are. As the budget is planned, citizens don't know. As it is spent, citizens know even less. The public must have insight into budget spending - who, and with what intentions? The state has to be able to answer to who and what the money went for. Public procurement was the source of a number of criminal proceedings, of course, when the law allowed broad interpretations and numerous abuses, each interpreted him as he wished, and the sanctions almost did not arrive. The new law is clear. He doesn't leave room for abuse. However, it is such a great public means that we have to constantly follow the law and improve regulations in this area. When the strategy speaks of internal financial control, it should be understood as a concept. Here it is necessary to provide a clear legal framework for the work of internal auditors, to provide them with adequate conditions and salaries. State administration executives need to get used to this concept, to support internal auditors, not to leave them aside and not to listen to their suggestions or to do anything to make their position difficult. The state audit institution must strengthen its capacities. The question is whether privatisation in Serbia should be discussed. In Serbia, the words privatisation and crime became synonyms. On what criteria were the executives elected at the Privatisation Agency? Why are there no financial reports before entering the privatisation process? Why did it become a rule of violation of the Accounting and Audit Act? The property was underestimated, the companies that were giants suddenly began to be worth a handful of dinars and sold for small amounts, with a constantly floating issue in the air – to whom were they sold? After privatisation, restructuring follows. What's that? There is a definition of restructuring in textbooks, but there is no definition of restructuring in law. It was purposely left not to be vague, left so that the Privatisation Agency simply does what it wants. It's the same privatisation agency that's dealing with privatisation now to deal with restructuring, according to the same rules that she robbed everyone in privatisation, and most of all with the state. The same applies to the bankruptcy law. In the 21st century, the bankruptcy procedure was regulated from discretionary to discretionary authority. How has the Law on Public Private Partnership and concessions been written? Besides good legal solutions, he lacks a Serbian language. Who was just brought in to write this law, in whose interest did it, and how was it written? The rules under which privatisation was implemented are poor and corrupt and the strategy envisions their necessary change. When you have a crime like this, or privatization, if you need anything in the state, it's a good public prosecutor's office. Those who have worked like this, from law writers to mere perpetrators, must call for responsibility. The property acquired by law must be taken away, returned to the company to whom it belongs. That's why the prosecution's capacities have to be maximum-strengthened. The prosecutions must have an expert consultant, a good financial acquaintance, who will be able to help the prosecutor direct the prosecution's prosecution immediately during the pre-criminal process. A financial investigation must be conducted immediately, as early as writing a criminal report, to be an integral part of a criminal report, not to be conducted beautifully when the property was transferred from Serbia to exotic islands. The police must have internal control in place, special units must be formed that will be the only task of fighting corruption. Knowledge, police training, it's just power in the fight against crime, white collars. Serbia is a rich country by its resources. Serbia is a rich country in its natural beauty but Serbia has never felt it was important. Serbia doesn't even know what it has, and it doesn't know because the caves are incomplete and unsupervised. Urbanist plans almost don't exist. It's building up and it's collapsing as anybody gets here. What they started to look like to us cities and villages, and that's not an accident. That works for someone. It responds to criminals that the cadastre is not neat, that they do not know what is whose, what belongs to it, is easier to build wildly, and the roads of money laundering are made easier. While the cadastre is messy, will anyone seriously come to invest in Serbia? Would one of you buy and build without knowing who it belongs to and who's using it? What kind of space does it open to abuses with agricultural land? A neat cadastre, urban plans, the responsibility of officials who come out of building permits and inspections, it can bring investors and it can create jobs in our country. No authorisation shall be issued within 279 days. We need a one-stop-shop system to get building permits and an electronic motion pad. Each of you here has friends, relatives, spouses, children, grandchildren. Most of them used to complain and cry when they were sick. They're sick, and someone asked them for money to heal. Someone's on the waiting list, and it won't be two years from now. Some of them never come in line. Sometimes you find out that you're taking a medicine that has expired or are asking you to buy an extremely expensive drug by-product even though there is a domestically, significantly cheaper one. How many times you've heard it - I can treat you but in my private office. Not all of our doctors are like that, but there's one number of them. The system allowed them to behave like this. The laws are written so that they can hide behind legal provisions. They're not even regulated with the pharmaceutical industry. The conflict of interest of health workers, there is no single information system. All this is almost the perfect environment for corruption. What to say about the corruption of the school system. From the tinyst and saddest places where school premises are rented for which any activity or entering into dubious agreements regarding child excursions, to the taking of money to pass exams at colleges or for suspicious procedures of accreditation of higher education institutions. We used to have sports clubs for pride. Clubs were used for recreation, for socializing, for improving human relations, for progress in sports. Then they knew who clubs belonged to and what they were serving. Today when they don't know who they belong to, who funds them and their results are devastating. We urgently need to make such regulations that will establish transparency of funding and ownership of sports clubs. In the past, we didn't have any regulations regarding preventing corrupt activity, and corruption was far less than it has today. Now we have the agency and many corrupt regulations, and corruption has become stronger and stronger. There was no clear will for corruption to be eradicated, laws were passed in order to be disrespected, anti-corruption bodies were established as cover for corruption, strategies were adopted that were not being met. Fate's document must not be and will not be. We have the will to calculate with corruption and we have clearly shown it in the previous period. This strategy foresees clear mechanisms for implementation and supervision. The ministry of justice and state administration will co-ordinator within the government for the activities envisaged by the strategy. We'll form a special task force to deal with this business. The Anti-Corruption Council is there to timely point to the government's appearances of corruption and failures in battle. Finally, the Council has a government that listens to him. Control of implementation belongs to the Anti-Corruption Agency. The agency has all the bonds to file reports. Unless they do so, they will be invited to explain in the presence of the public why they do not respect the strategy of the prescribed obligation. The Agency will report to the Assembly. The assembly will also discuss the reports and responsibilities of the persons who were required by action plans. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, we are proud to point out that this is the first time you have proposed two national strategies of priority for the state and citizens. The ministry, led by me, has shown its readiness to bring together stakeholders in the short run about goals that have been crying for achievement in Serbia for a long time. An independent, impartial, quality, professional, responsible and efficient judiciary is essential to Serbia if we want Serbia to exist, to return to it, and not to leave it permanently. If we want the solution to start a working relationship to become a rule, and the solution to cancel an exception, if we want it to be more born than it is dying. Without such a judiciary, any thought of fighting corruption, as one colleague said in yesterday's debate, is simply a wish, whose every attempt will be doomed in advance. These strategies allow Serbia to systematically strengthen its institutions that will become able to protect the state and the interests of citizens. We don't need this kind of justice because of ourselves, but only because of the citizens. Let it be a warning, not just to us politicians, but to judges and prosecutors and their deputies and lawyers and officials. A citizen must be the center of our attention. A citizen who deserves protection and defense of his rights and his freedoms. If a citizen is not at the centre of our attention, if these two strategies are not designed to improve his relationship with institutions and states, if they do not aim to make his life a better and more worthy man in the 21st century in Europe, then these strategies have no goal, nor any other strategy written on dozens or not hundreds of sides. On behalf of the citizens of Serbia, I call on you to support the streamlining of two proposed strategies into two strategies, for national judicial reform and for the fight against corruption from 2013 to 2018. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19698	Injury of Rules of Procedure Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19699	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I point to a violation of article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, for the chairman is obliged to care for the respect of the Rules of Procedure. The fact is, on the basis of Article 73. Rules of Procedure, a member of a committee shall be required to participate in the work of the Committee. Now, we have a situation that two documents and a proposal for a national strategy and reform of the judiciary in 2013 and 2018 and a proposal for a national anti-corruption strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period 2013-2018 came into the assembly procedure on 19 June and 20 June by emergency procedure. The fact is that until the start of the principle debate, there is the possibility of making amendments, precisely because it is not respected that general provision, that 15 days of law or act being considered as law, which are the proposals of the strategy, is in the assembly procedure. Then we would have the opportunity to submit the amendments in time and it would be time for the amendments to be submitted would not have coincided with the beginning of the principle debate. And what kind of situation do we have? That here in the plenary room, we all who are members of the Justice Committee, it is normal to listen to the opening presentation of Mr. Minister, to see how the written materials will be complemented by oral exposure, and on the other hand, as members of the Committee, we should attend the session of the Committee which is parallel, while the minister spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19700	Thank you, Mr. Mikovic. I'll remind you of the provisions of Article 103. Therefore, the MP has the right to orally point to an injury following the entry of the President of the National Assembly, if not in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, made at the meeting of the National Assembly. You have an order of Article 103, I think that's attitude 7. - if the MP considers that the President of the National Assembly has not acted in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure by the beginning of the session of the National Assembly, he shall have the right to indicate to the President of the National Assembly in writing, in which the President of the National Assembly at the meeting of the National Assembly shall inform the MP. So, if you felt that an injury was done before the session began, please contact us in writing in future. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement about it?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19701	I'm not asking him to plead, but I'm pointing to a new injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19702	I didn't understand. You want to re-injure the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19703	That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19704	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19705	I believe you've injured Article 103. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, just by giving such an explanation, because I believe that you have been in charge as chairman, you are obliged to take care of the respect of the Rules of Procedure, not only at the plenary session, but also of the Members of Parliament for the work of the entire Assembly, including the committees. If the activities in the Assembly are consistent so that the MPs cannot take part in the work that they should do, in that sense I believe that you have been obliged to intervene and that you are asking that exactly the activities take place in a way that does not prevent any MP from participating, either in the plenary session, or in the work of the committee, where he is again obliged to participate.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19706	I have to admit, I didn't understand you very well, but maybe one day I'll understand you, but okay. Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Peter Petrovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19707	Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government has considered both strategies both for judicial reform and for the fight against corruption, decided to propose to the National Assembly to accept the proposed national strategies and I would like to add the following to adopt these national strategies by this National Assembly, certainly not all the problems that exist in both the Serbian judiciary and in the fight against corruption. Namely, both strategies envision, following the adoption of these strategies, the government of the Republic of Serbia will move, which will have to prepare an action plan annually for the implementation of both national strategies for judicial reform and an action plan for the implementation of the national anti-corruption strategy. Every year and every year, these action plans will have to be innovated, and the government is also obliged to prepare proposals for new legal solutions, both those involved in reforming the Serbian judiciary and those involved in further fighting corruption in the state of Serbia. What I want to point out is, especially when it comes to future reform of the Serbian judiciary in the period from 2013 to 2018, which is that we must in the next period of time, for a five-year period to see all the weaknesses resulting from the previous reform of the Serbian judiciary and the consequences that are ahead of us today. Public calls are often heard for the work of today's High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of the Prosecutor's Office. I must draw attention to the fact that most of the members of the current summoning of both these state authorities were elected in 2011 and 2012. When we talk about the consequences of many decisions made by these two authorities in 2010, we need the public to take a look at what the members of those bodies were at the time when the re-election decisions were made, both the judge and the prosecutors, and when those decisions were saddened and our grief, because they caused many consequences, fell in the Serbian Constitutional Court. Let's not close my eyes to the truth, that those who are the greatest culprits for what was happening in the Serbian judiciary after so-called. The reforms from 2009 onwards are not in place today, both the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. They would have to bear, since there are no legal consequences for this, but at least the moral consequences for what many people have done, and over 800 judges and prosecutors who were not re-elected in 2009, or 2010, but had to be returned, and this composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary brought them back to work after the Constitutional Court's decision. Therefore, this public must know and the public must be aware of what these people who have played with the fates of many people bearers, both judicial and public prosecutorial functions. When it comes to fighting corruption, it is an uninterrupted process and it must be followed, and it must be followed by one European legislation, and this Assembly will certainly have a lot of work to do in passing the laws that we will receive from the Government. Once again, I stress that the board has accepted both of these strategies and is proposing that the National Assembly accept them in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19708	Thank you. The President of the Legislative Committee, Vladimir Cvian, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19709	As chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, I would like to inform the Minister, present MPs and the public of Serbia that both the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives a few days ago at the session, unanimously, supported in principle the Strategy for Justice Reform and the Anti-Corruption Strategy. Today, before this session was held, we also had a session concerning the amendments. I will take the opportunity to inform Mr. Minister that there have been six amendments to the Justice Reform Strategy, which have also been assessed unanimously by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm sure these amendments will be carefully studied. There are several very high-quality ones. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to discuss it, but I would like to inform you that practically nine hours and 55 minutes, the JS parliamentary group has submitted an amendment, but if our colleagues from the JS parliamentary group want us to, we can also hold a special session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, this occasion, although the amendment has certainly been extremely quality written and, of course, I am fully convinced that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The fact that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives unanimously assessed that both strategies and all amendments are in line with the Constitution and the legal system shows that these strategies are extremely high-quality, that their text is truly envious, to say freely, to the European level, that they are highly skilled and that it is indeed seen that the Ministry of Justice has made great efforts to make such texts and be. On behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, of course, I call on all Members of the People to support this strategy in the voting day, and as far as the amendment is concerned, everyone is of great quality, and it is certainly necessary to consider that some may also be accepted, as it will improve such good texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19710	Thank you. The word has Srdjan Mikovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19711	Since we now need to start a single search on the proposals of the National Strategy, one and the other, and the fact is that one number of amendments...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19712	The fact is, you first need to tell me what member of the Rules of Procedure I've hurt?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19713	Yes, Article 27 and Article 164.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19714	Thank you, Mr. Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19715	I don't see why they should be touched in a situation if someone asks to respect their business obligations. On the basis of the 164th draft law, i.e. the authorised representative of the proposings, the laws and committees shall consider amendments submitted to the draft law and propose to the National Assembly which amends it to accept and reject. I note, that as a member of the Justice Committee, since I listened to the minister in the plenary room, I did not have the opportunity to participate in the work of the Justice Committee, to see if the Committee on Justice, as the parent board, had proposed the adoption of certain amendments submitted. We need to begin the debate at this point, and we don't know what the position on the subject of the amendments is. That is why I also pointed out in my previous address that it should be given a little break, it would be good if a principle debate had been launched, that the minister had given his presentation and that we had then gone to the board meeting and saw what should be done, what should not be adopted and that we should inform all the MPs with this information. In the presentation of the chairman of the Committee which lasted a little more than five minutes, we have not received any information as to whether or not the parent committee has proposed the adoption of certain amendments, and how, unless we have received neither the oral statement, nor the written statement, or the written paper whether something has been accepted or not has been accepted, how to discuss it. So it's a unique search. We are also discussing the amendments in general, and for that very reason, it is our turn that before we begin to discuss it, to get information about what has been accepted, or what is proposed to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19716	Thank you. Mr. Selakovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19717	Thank you. As regards the objections of the MP, Mr Mikovic, I should also like to commend the work of the National Assembly and the Committee and the expeditionivity and the time at which I received the amendments and to say that we accept the amendments on behalf of the promoter and when it comes to amendments to the National Strategy for Justice Reform for the period from 2013 to 2018. It is an amendment submitted by Parliament Elvira Kovač to Chapter III and Chapter VII of point 1. Then, the amendment tabled by MP Neđo Jovanovic V point 3 of Section 3 and when it comes to the proposal for a strategy to fight corruption, it is the amendment of MP Petar Petrovic in Chapter V of point 5. 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19718	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19719	Madam Vice-President, Mr. Minister, since MPs have 20 minutes at their disposal in this part of the debate, I would only talk about the National Strategy for Justice Reform. So, I'm not going to talk about the second document, but I want to say that on the other document, we have no fundamental grudges. As far as the Justice Strategy is concerned, I could use a significant part of my presentation to express my praise for this document. Indeed, I can say that the document is comprehensive, that it is made up in the way strategies are written, that there are really a small number of issues that are lagging behind and what may be one of the important characteristics of this strategy, is that it is extremely correct in relation to the previous strategy, extremely correct in relation to the range and results of the previous strategy, and that is certainly one great value. I'll use the rest of the time to explain our views on some parts of the strategy that we consider to be flawed. What is key to us in this strategy is that the practical notion of the national minority communities in this strategy does not have, not only as a language term, but generally as one circumstance or as one fact that is certainly an important feature of society in this country. Given this fact, we have a few issues to discuss. I don't mean when we talk about these shortcomings being crucial or that these issues are crucial in one justice strategy, but they are certainly important or should be important. I will not spread my discussion on some issues that have nothing to do with this issue, but it is certainly not an accident that a good part of the Brussels dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina is happening right around the judiciary. I think it's one circumstance that's irrefutable. For that reason, I will try to convince you later, Mr. Minister, that you will accept some other amendments, not only this one that has been accepted. What aspects of minority issues or minority issues are missing from this strategy? There are two key issues that must have found a place in this strategy. One issue is the representation of members of the national judicial communities, therefore, among the holders of judicial functions. In relation to that question, the strategy practically does not say anything. The second issue is the official use of language and letters of national minorities in the area of justice. The right to the official use of language and letters is one minority right and surely the most important minority law is in the area of justice. That should be an additional reason for this issue to be found in this document. The main objective of the strategy, which the second part of the document speaks of, of course, is one long definition, but in one part the sentence speaks of the need to bring justice closer to the citizens and restore citizens' trust in the judicial system. As far as members of the national communities are concerned, I think these issues that I have spoken of are extremely important if we have in mind this basic objective defined in Chapter II of the Strategy. Therefore, if the aim is to bring justice closer to citizens who are members of national communities, then the strategy would also have to deal with the representation of minorities in the judiciary, as well as issues of official use or problems related to the official use of language and letter of national minorities. Why are these questions important, and why do we miss these questions in this document? For one simple reason – both of these issues, it is a quote from the Constitution, and equality in the conduct of public affairs, therefore, it is one provision of the Constitution which deals, among other things, with the representation of minorities and in the judiciary, and on the other hand the right to the official use of language. So both of these rights were guaranteed by the Constitution and as the Constitution guaranteed the rights relating to the area of justice, they had to be found, in our deep confidence, in this document. I'll try a little bit more detail on this. Therefore, as regards the constitutional right to equality in public affairs, this right is guaranteed to members of national minorities to take account of the national composition of the population, including in the judiciary. On the other hand, the right to use the language is one right to conduct procedures and in the languages of national minorities in official use. Once again, these are both rights guaranteed by the Constitution. And not only that, and now the applicable judicial laws have treated these rights. If we read the provisions of the Law on Courts, on the regulation of courts, on the public prosecutor's office, on public records, on enforcement and security, all these laws contain one identical provision guaranteeing members of national minorities an affirmative measure concerning representation in judicial authorities. Therefore, in all these laws, there is a provision whereby the selection and proposal of judges, public prosecutors, etc. takes into account the national composition of the population in the proper representation of minorities and the knowledge of social terminology in the languages of national minorities that are officially used in court. Once again, this provision is in all the judicial laws that I have spoken of. On the other hand, there is an important law that is not on the list of laws that have been consulted in the making of laws. It's a law on official use of language and letters. I think it's a failure that this law is not consulted at all when the strategy is written for the reasons that not most of it, but one part or one important provision deals precisely with the official use of language and letter of minorities in the area of justice, therefore, in judicial proceedings. The fact that in some ways this document has been forgotten, it may be a minor problem. The bigger problem is that this strategy follows a different concept, at least as regards strategic objectives and guidelines, a completely different concept than the current Constitution and applicable laws. The strategy itself speaks in part about improving access to justice and strengthening the protection of minorities, but in a way that raises citizens' awareness of the right to interpretation. The right to an interpreter or the right to an interpreter does not mean the official use of language and letter in any way. Of course, it is one important right, but it applies primarily to foreigners, not to the citizens of this country, or to the citizens of this country, but in some areas where minorities do not make up a significant population. This logic, which I have spoken of, is followed by the current Constitution, when Article 32(2) tells us that every person is guaranteed the right to a free translator if he does not speak or understands the language that was officially used in court. So if one minority language is officially used in court, then the right to a court interpreter should lose its meaning. For that reason, I want to underline that once again, we lack the treatment of this issue from this document. I want to draw your attention to an important step taken in the adoption of the Law on Public Registration, when for the first time in the legal system in these modern times, the right to the equal use of minority languages is introduced. Namely, in the Law on the Public Registration of Minorities, they can choose whether they want a public document to be drawn up in their language, in Serbian or in both languages. That right was left to minority members. Therefore, the Law on Public Registration no longer prefers the use of minority languages at the same time, but equality. According to us, it should be a course worth following. From what I quoted from the National Strategy, related to translators and interpreters, it follows that a different direction, the opposite direction, is chosen. For this reason, we have submitted several amendments to which we are trying or trying to correct these shortcomings of the National Strategy. The first amendment refers to the concept of human and minority rights. In many places the document contains only the notion of human rights, and this concept is half-sharp for the reason that practically the highest legal act of Serbia, i.e. The constitution, the concept of human and minority rights, treats as one whole. For this reason, we have suggested that in all places in the document, where, as far as the consistency of the text is concerned, it makes sense that this concept is complemented by the word "majority". That amendment has been accepted. What I'm trying to say is that it's extremely important for two reasons. On the one hand for the reasons I was talking about. Therefore, the notion of minority rights covers the right to use language officially under certain conditions. It's part of that right. On the other hand, this concept also includes the need for judicial officials to be aware of the existence of this right. That's no less important. As for this amendment, I want to thank you for respecting our arguments and accepting this amendment. This amendment certainly improves the quality of the text of the National Strategy. Our second amendment, which may be the least important, but I want to explain it anyway. It refers to relevant reform actors. This is where we proposed that the National Councils of Minorities be among the relevant reform players. For the reasons that they have the Constitution guaranteeed jurisdiction in the field of official use of language and letters of national minorities. If so, then I see no reason for them to be among the relevant actors. They do not have to be among key actors, but among the relevant ones, where they are, for example. representatives of civil society, media, etc. I don't see any reason why this wouldn't be accepted. We have also proposed another part of the amendment, that when the Commission implements the strategy, i.e. subgroups or working groups of committees that are educated in dealing with issues that have an impact on the official use of language and minority letters, the National Council of Minorities should also be involved in the work of these committees. Not for some theoretical reason, but there's just a practical reason. Who else would best know the needs of minority communities in the field of official use of language and letters if they were not national advice. For that reason, I'd like to appeal to you, Mr. Minister, to re-examine this amendment. It doesn't essentially change anything, but it certainly means one additional value to this document. Our next amendment concerns the issue of official use of language and letters. It may be acceptable to amend the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters, i.e. the needs of amending that law, do not need to be found in the National Strategy for Justice Reform. There is no place to define this need, but I have tried to explain for what reason the Law on the Use of Official Language and Letters is extremely important. On the other hand, the problem with the law is that it was brought in 1991 and the essence has not been changed. At this point, the use of official languages is totally anachron. It is largely inapplicable because it contains an egalistic approach to using minority languages, which means that all languages are treated in the same way and in all environments regardless of the number of certain communities, regardless of whether there are 15, 20% of certain minority communities or 80%. For this reason, it is certain that the need to pass a new law on official use of language and letter, so that they can accept the argument that this issue may not have to be found in the National Strategy, but this issue must be resolved during the implementation of the National Strategy. I think it's undeniable. The next amendment refers to one aspect of the official use of language and letter. The policymakers proposed that human rights studies be introduced as a mandatory subject in law schools. And that's where we suggested that on the one hand, that subject be complemented by minority rights, because that makes one whole. On the other hand, the subject is being studied in a way that puts a special accent on minority rights in the field of official use of language and letter. In practice, unfortunately, there is quite a low awareness among the holders of judicial functions on the importance and perhaps on the existence of this right of minority communities. On the other hand, the second part of this amendment deals with the study of professional legal terminology, and also part of the amendment concerns future holders of judicial functions belonging to minority communities. A major problem in the field of the use of official languages and letters is the lack of legal terminology by judicial officials who otherwise speak minority languages and belong to minority communities. Perhaps for a decade there was a practice at the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad, whose essence was that all those interested had the opportunity to study the legal terminology of their native languages. The second part of this amendment refers to the introduction of this possibility, as one electoral class at law schools. Finally, the last amendment concerns the issue of adequate representation of minority communities in the judiciary. There must be a lot of problems and a lot of things to solve, but basically when we look at the current system and the future system, so on. The career system then there are two key points. The first key point is initial training at the Judicial Academy. If, for the initial training exam, knowledge of professional terminology in minority languages is not taken into account to the least extent as a criteria for enrolment, then this will result in all or most of those who go out or finish this initial training not knowing the legal terminology in minority languages. If so, then it has the inapplicability of the constitutional provisions that I have spoken of. On the other hand, I'm going to finish the second part of my amendment to the trainees. In the case of trainees in the current Law on the Judicial Academy, success from the Faculty of Law is largely taken into account when receiving the exam. Why is that problematic? That's what I'd like to explain. In those minority communities whose languages are significantly different from Serbian, the first year of law school is extremely difficult because it is first necessary to master the academic Serbian language, then the professional terminology of Serbian language, etc. For this reason, students who come from minority communities whose languages are significantly different from Serbian, automatically no matter how hard they are at the end of college, have a weaker average. That's why we suggested that this circumstance be somehow valued and taken into account when considering the admission exam for judge and prosecutorial interns. These are our amendments, and I'd like to appeal to you to reconsider them. Some amendments may have been a little raffled, but given the complexity of what I've been talking about, I don't think there's a simpler formulation. The essence behind these amendments is worth supporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19720	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19721	Thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given the really great importance of the topics that my colleague Varga was talking about in his opening statement, let me not rephrase, but rather clarify our position as the Ministry of Justice and the views on these issues that have been raised. It has been said that this one amendment has been accepted and it has indeed been very comprehensive. It should have been accepted and I am glad that the text of the Strategy Proposal has been improved in this way. As far as an extremely important topic is concerned, which is much wider than the scope of this strategy, which is the subject of official use of language and letter, certainly I support the convincing part of the presentation of my colleagues to Varga, the fact that the law has become obsolete, that it is more than a fifth of a century in force, that it is more depicting a time in which it has been brought in line with the Constitution which is no longer in force, that this law has a problem not only of any minority community, but also of the majority people in the Republic of Serbia, since it is not in conformity with the current Constitution. I agree with what you have stated as one of the possible views, that such a formulation does not have its place in the strategy, but I am adding that having no place in the strategy does not mean that there is no room in the Action Plan for implementation of the strategy. The official use of language and letters in judicial authorities is only one of the places of official use of language and letter. Personally, in a conversation with my colleagues, since jurisdiction has been shared in proposing the adoption of the law, I have advocated that in the legislative agenda for the following year, the law finds its place. When it comes to the participation of national councils of national minorities in the strategy implementation team, I am more of an opinion that because it is very important, but in terms of its size in relation to the strategy, it is a small question, that it is not necessary to formally oblige the participation of national councils of national minorities, i.e. representatives of legitimate national minorities in this process, but it is certainly necessary to include them and especially in that part of the Action Plan which speaks about changes and additions to procedural laws. There is, in procedural laws, the necessary official use of language and letters. When you were talking about introducing human rights and ethics at foreign universities, I have to point out that, not at all, but in most of our law schools, not as binding, but as an optional subject of human rights and ethics, but simply, one internationally standardised termology was used here. There are all kinds of human rights that contain mandatory and minority rights, and within these minority rights and the right to use their own language and letter. Thus, the name of the case is listed – human rights and ethics. That is what is said in the international frameworks. As for the last amendment you spoke of, a very significant one, which is the knowledge of professional, or legal terminology in the language of national minorities by the minority communities themselves, we certainly support this idea. I find that this segment is already covered by this part of the strategy that talks about improving the Justice Academy programme. I'm proud that we at our judicial academy have students who are members of national minorities. We have some who have already completed initial training, which I hope will soon be elected to office in the judiciary, but I see that there is also a tendency in the inflow of new candidates, candidates coming from minority communities. In any case, the issue is covered by the promotion of the judicial academy programme. I certainly support that idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19722	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19723	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I spoke as president of the Committee a few minutes ago. I will now speak for a few minutes as deputy president of the JS parliamentary group. The JS Parliament Club, I must say right away at the beginning, will support the proposal in the voting day as well as strategies related to judicial reform, as well as national anti-corruption strategies. What I want in particular to point out, and I'm going to keep my presentation more on the first strategy, which is a national strategy on judicial reform, I mean that I have no intention of criticising an earlier strategy that unfortunately did not give the results that were expected of it. I am not running away from the proposals for this reform and the implementation of that strategy in earlier years having good intentions, but, unfortunately, from intention to outcome is a big and long way to go. The intentions are one thing, the result is another, and the consequence is what we have today, unfortunately, in the Serbian judiciary, both in courts and in public prosecutors. What happened was that the Constitutional Court adopted constitutional appeals of more than 800 judicial and public prosecutorial officials and ordered the current composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors to bring these people back to work. In public, especially in some newspapers, favoured by some other parties that today are not the owners of government in Serbia, certain articles and notifications have come out and inscriptions that these two authorities have returned to work by applying the decisions of the Constitutional Court and of the people in prison or against them are being prosecuted. That's not true. I responsibly claim as a member of both body and body that that is not true. By applying the Constitutional Court's decision, these people were formally deployed for one minute, and the second minute were immediately suspended from the post to which the Constitutional Court returned them. That's what I'm talking about for MPs, and especially for the public, for the record, because there are a lot of abuses in order to get day-to-day political points. Unique Serbia has never done so, nor will it work in the future, but we will always stick to the truth and only to the truth and to the decision of who they are. By applying the last strategy, we have left many municipalities in the Republic of Serbia without courts, without prosecutors, etc. Yesterday I spoke, when government issues were at the position of Serbia, especially in rural parts of Serbia, where many villages and municipalities are shutting down because there are no residents, there are no personnel, etc. Why isn't there? Because, among other things, this reform that was in place until 2011, many courts and prosecutors were taken away from these small and medium-sized municipalities and remained their judicial units or even judging days, and someone had to maintain the building. There have also been paradoxical situations that in some cities that have 70, 80, and more than one thousand inhabitants, there have been many judges and prosecutors, and there has been no movement from those areas that will be the president of a court or a public prosecutor, but has been sent or elected from some other cities over 100 km away. Who was carrying the cost of traveling or paying for the flats of these new function holders? It's normal, country. Why? Because it reportedly wanted to avoid the possibility of corrupting these holders of functions in courts, or prosecutors. I ask the question to those who thought so, well, it's easier to corrupt someone from another town when they come 100 miles into a town than to the one who lives in that town, because whoever wants to do something with him, they'll meet him tomorrow on the street, so they'll ask him if he's done his job or not, if he's got some dirty business. Therefore, that explanation automatically falls into the water. On the other hand, there have been, we must admit, that this no longer happens again, certain pressures when elections have been made, both judges and prosecutors, and that should be made public. Who, when and where he was doing it, I don't know, but obviously there were mistakes. The one who made those mistakes eventually suffered the consequences of these mistakes. The implementation of the strategy and reform has not yielded results. For three years, we have been acting presidents of basic, senior and other courts. Wasn't it possible in three years to choose the presidents of the courts? I understand the explanation back a year that was said - we are waiting for the Constitutional Court's decision, so that even judges who are eventually returned to court can apply for presidents. In my opinion, as our people say, that explanation doesn't drink water or drink water. One more thing should be said when it comes to a new strategy on reforming the Serbian judiciary and when the government brings an action plan for this year and for next, that it must be kept in mind that the Serbian judiciary must be rejuvenated, as well as the holders of public prosecutorial functions, with young educated people who want to do their job fairly, honestly and responsibly and previously, as provided for by the Law on the Judiciary Academy, undergo additional education at the Judiciary Academy and be the basis for obtaining the right to be the holder of judicial or public prosecutorial functions. Normally, we must not and cannot forget many people in courts and prosecutors as assistants, professional associates, who have been doing this job for years and are very educated and professional, that they too get the opportunity to be either a judge or a public prosecutor's office. Unique Serbia will give full support to any action plan aimed at improving work, both by judicial, so-called public prosecutor's authorities. What I didn't say at first, and because of you fellow Members and fellow MPs, I should explain, since I understood that it was a well-intentioned remark from my distinguished friend and colleague Mikovic about the Committee's work on amendments. I hope that in writing, meanwhile, you have received an answer to what amendments have been accepted by the Committee and which are not. I don't think that should be the subject of any discussion anymore. As regards the time of the session, it was an obligation for the Committee to consider amendments before the debate took place, since the debate was united, or a single search. As for the presence, I remind you that each committee has a member of the Committee and a deputy member of the Committee. Therefore, if a member of the Committee cannot attend, he is replaced by a deputy from his parliamentary group. Therefore, they can agree on their views, opinions, proposals, so that one can be present on the Committee and possibly suggest, proposal, opinion, etc. That's my opinion. That's how it worked. It's not the first time the committees are held at a time when the presentations of those who need to explain the proposals are going. Therefore, to conclude, when it comes to the National Strategy for Justice Reform in the Republic of Serbia, the JS parliamentary club, as I said, will support it, will vote for it. We expect this reform to correct all the mistakes observed, observed or made in the previous period by applying earlier reforms and that we will never again be told by the Constitutional Court that we should do and what we should do in the Serbian judiciary. We must be aware that by amending many laws, and that is necessary, because by joining the EU one day, and before that we must imitate our legislation in this area with EU legislation. Not because of the EU, but because of us, because of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are seeking to protect certain rights from the holders of judicial and public prosecutorial functions. Those laws, when they come to the National Assembly, can also be said on behalf of the JS Parliament Club, that they will be unanimously supported. When it comes to the second strategy and amendment that I have submitted to the draft anti-corruption strategy, namely the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, it is a matter of a number of technical improvements in the text. On the other hand, I have noticed, together with my co-workers and my colleagues from the JS, that it is necessary to improve the text of the National Strategy Proposal by submitting this amendment and proposing that amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly create opportunities for certain conclusions and the application of them, when considering and discussing the reports of the Anti-Corruption Agency. I can say that it has the full support of the JS Parliament club and will have it in the future. Therefore, I say once again that as a parliamentary group, we will support both national strategies in the voting day, as well as the amendments that the Committee has adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19724	Mr. Mikovic, are you sure you want a replica? Yes, I agree that he mentioned you by name, but nothing is offensive, nothing is for you or the party, but in a positive sense he made one comment and a view of the Committee's work. [[Srdjan Mikovic, from the place: Yes, I want a replica. I'm directly mentioned. By name he mentioned me.]] I don't think it really makes sense now to abuse the Rules of Procedure that for every word, and in a positive and negative sense, we use a replica. I won't give you a replica on this occasion. (Srdjan Mikovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19725	I believe that under article 27 and Article 32, it is your discretionary right to decide whether or not you will give a replica. This is practically about the procedural things I pointed to and where, in a certain way, I got a practical answer. The fact is that in the situation where Mr Laszlo Varga began to speak, we have not yet had an answer to the Committee's position on whether or not amendments have been accepted. Minister Selakovic gave the government's opinion, but we didn't have the Committee's opinion at the time. In that sense, in no way do I want to abuse parliamentary rights, but the fact is that something that stands in the National Anti-Corruption Strategy proposal, since I haven't been able to participate in the Committee, we haven't been as members of the Committee in an opportunity to intervene and fix something that neither I... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19726	Please, Mr. Mikovic, you've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So don't go on the line. I don't think he was hurt by the Rules of Procedure. If you think the Rules of Procedure was hurt, can we speak in voting day? (Srdjan Mikovic, from the post: I do not want you to plead. I thank you. Mrs. Popovic, are you reporting for the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Judita Popovic, from the place: No. All right. I thought you wanted to hurt the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19727	I thank you and ask you to include this time as part of the discussion. I will talk about the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, and of course, I will start my speech with some exact information that we have at the moment when it comes to the level of corruption and when it comes to the environment for the fight against corruption in our country. But I can't talk about fighting corruption without talking about the very economic and any other context in which the fight against corruption is being fought and needed to make it quality and successful. What kind of context is that? I primarily think that the context that involves a good environment for fighting corruption is economic and that what will determine the quality and results of our fight against corruption is also what is called the moral restoration of our society. Therefore, I think that it is not only Mr. Minister and Strategy and Documents, the legal regulations that the ministry will make, that we will vote in this assembly, which are important for this successful fight against corruption, but also for a number of other strategies and behaviours, other ministers and other decision-makers in this country, and primarily for those who make decisions within economic and social policy. To understand what I was about to say - it is that this country must primarily develop a competition to develop a policy of equal opportunities for everyone, to create a good business environment, to invest, to strengthen institutions, especially regulatory bodies and independent institutions, because research, science and practice have proven that those societies that are economically richer, which have a larger gross domestic product, that in these societies there are also a greater number of economic transactions, that there is greater mutual trust between those who perform the market. So the primary prerequisite for development and for a successful fight against corruption is to develop a market economy and one game of human knowledge and human abilities in that market, whether it be individuals, whether it be the state administration, whether it be the private sector. This strategy speaks of the fight against corruption when it comes to public revenues, when it comes to public expenditures, when it comes to privatisation, education, police, so the most important pillars, sectors in this country that we have to take care of, but we need to make an ambience that in these sectors that concern the state administration itself that these sectors work within those market principles, that they employ the best, most frequent, most qualified, most capable people who have ethical norms and who respect and develop moral codes in their institutions. In this way, the minister also said nicely, through the permanent education of people in ministries and state institutions we will be able to come up with some assumptions that the fight against corruption will be successful. The anti-corruption strategy involves ten areas. As we've heard, the government will consider and hope to adopt an action plan. I hope that we will have detailed and clear objectives, Mr Minister, and deadlines within which these detailed objectives will be achieved, because the strategy as a strategy as well as all the other 115, which the National Assembly or Government has brought, has no result unless there are clear detailed objectives and people who will implement this strategy on the ground. Of course, in this I mean the need, importance and commitment of both the Government and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to strengthen in every way the work of independent bodies, regulatory bodies, such as the DRI, such as the Commissioner for Access to Public Information, such as the Anti-Corruption Agency, such as the Anti-Corruption Council. On the capacity of such bodies and on the capacity of personnel and financial, these bodies will depend in many ways, of course, on the result and quality of the fight against corruption. At the moment, our country is located following a survey of the "Transparens International" 82nd in the level and degree of corruption of 176 countries covered by the analysis. As many as 80% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia think that every segment of our society, whatever you want to come to in this society, is that, did you say, Mr. Minister, and building permits, about starting a business, about any administrative aspects and documents, you have to do some corrupt act, is this the subject of some corrupt act. It's a frighteningly high level of perception of corruption in our country because it's thought, therefore, that corruption is something that is normal and without which this country and what it does here, and that it creates a quality environment to be a good service, so the servants of the citizens that it doesn't work, but a parallel world that implies corruption as something that is perfectly normal. Corruption at the annual level only through public procurement, which is mentioned in the strategy itself, takes one quarter of the pensions. So, somewhere around a billion euros. Corruption is the most developed according to the latest 2012 research in the health sector, in the police sector, in the education sector and under 4) in the public and state administration sectors in all sectors where the state has the greatest impact. The private sector with a very low percentage participates, but we also see good developments, that finally the state has sent a message to the private sector that it is not playing with the state, that it does not think that the state and state institutions will be able to come up with Portrait jobs and big profits that are not suitable for market business itself, and here we have made good results. What is commendable is that a catalogue of public functions will be drawn up and what will greatly help fight corruption is also the establishment of a fast-track office, and this way I would like to deny some of the colleagues who say that this institute will not help fight corruption and increase the efficiency, business and attraction of both domestic and foreign investment. I would mention that Italy, which has the most developed especially small and medium-sized enterprises, has a office for quick answers. He's got a legal solution 40 years ago. It's not a new, innovative solution. This is a solution that we will apply as a practice of developed countries that develop economies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises on a continent our country wants and wants and needs to develop. What is very important is to strengthen Parliament's role in budget control. The other day, we had Brazilian parliamentarians representing a programme that I hope will live with us, that parliamentarians themselves, members of the committees, but citizens themselves can control at the daily level budget spending. These are all aspects that will help to improve, to strengthen awareness not only of people who are employed in the state administration, not only of decision-makers in parliament, in the government of the RS, but also of citizens that they also care about where their money is eventually poured out, because their money is here and it is. What I and the SDPS parliamentary group would like to appeal is that there are more powers to the National Assembly, parliamentary committees, any changes to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly because we have this control role, especially when it comes to certain regulatory bodies, independent institutions. We can analyze the reports, we can point to irregularities, we can point to illegality, but there is no need to be a result of those who are irresponsible, who have violated the law, and the decision-makers are also in the management of these competent institutions and bodies, having no obligation whatsoever except what I was talking about at the very beginning, which should be a moral obligation for all who work in the state administration, which is that in one quality, efficient, effective way in accordance with the modern principles of business and corporate governance they manage the budget and manage the resources and resources of this state. What it will represent, which is a presumption for the development of the fight against corruption and market development and the development of the competition, the market is faceless. There's no command and no subordinate in the market. The market only knows its ability. The market knows only the quality and there are common interests on the market between those making transactions on the market. As soon as you have a big regulation, as soon as you have the administration of the state and great bureaucracy you have the one who's in charge, you have the one who has the competence in the decision-making process and, of course, it's one of the reasons we have this kind of corruption and what the perception of corruption is really focused on four aspects of state administration, health care, police, education and this part of public administration and public institutions. I will focus in my discussion on those four very important pillars, items. The first one's the police. Police have worked in the framework of a tweeting project together with the UNDP one strategy to develop the fight against corruption in the MUP. This strategy was made in 2011. The strategy contains relevant data that say 72% of people today believe that police are highly corrupt. On the other hand, we have 34.8% of the people in the police who have a college degree, which is an excellent capacity to improve the situation with permanent education, education, constant change and attempt to change the minds of people working in the MUP, and simply to reduce that level of corruption in the MUP to the lowest possible level. In the MUP, 41% consider police leadership members to be employed through political decisions. In our police department, you have what's unrecorded in developed countries and in the modern world, that you have in the police themselves what's called a code of silence between members of the MUP, that you have what's called learning helplessness as a term. What does that mean? It means that you know that you can't change anything, and when you see that one of your colleagues is involved in some corrupt activities, you can't say or think that the state and the organs themselves are not strong enough and strong enough to apply the law. That's why this strategy has to be sectoral. Every sector of this country must have its own special strategy. You said very well, the Department of Justice will have a unit to deal with the fight against corruption, but it should also have a MUP. It has the internal control sector so far, within the Belgrade police administration, the sector dealing with this, but research has shown that at least one per cent of the people employed in the MUP should deal exclusively with the fight against corruption, and at this point it should be the capacity of 400 of the most qualified, most honorable people, with the full capacity to fight corruption and nothing else to deal with. Only 8.7% of MuP workers on operational surveillance operations have passed some seminars and some corruption education. What is good and what is commendable is that the new Public Procurement Act, which took effect, is covered by this process and must be included in the public procurement process. Why? Because research has shown that in the past 10 years only one high-ranking MUP has resigned because it has been involved in corrupt activities. Look at the miracles, he resigned not because it was his moral act, but he resigned because he lost support for the party that supported him in the ministry. So, the famous case of getting Zipo lighters and Swiss knives as a team in the MUP, ladies and gentlemen, and today, the police are running out of equipment, with no shoes, and today they're exposed to attacks that they're receiving those famous 10,000 dinars as social aid, which their union fought for. It's not help, it's just the result of a special collective contract that exists in the MUP. This is very commendable, because we are one of the few countries in Europe that has a special collective agreement on police and thus, through an increase in earnings, through greater trade union and better rights, which SDPS stands for with all its heart, will also reduce the level of corruption in the MUP. It is very important that the MUP develop a special strategy for education of personnel in the field of combating corruption and to strengthen the capacity of the internal control service and all those involved in the fight against corruption in the MUP. What is also commendable is that a strategy will be adopted to combat corruption at the level of customs administrations, which increases the intensity and capacity of the cost control of public funds and funds coming into our country from the EU. I would place a special accent on the privatisation process, the process of completing the restructuring of our country's 179 companies. We're all witnessing it, and the SDPS is very interested in this aspect, because when you look at it a little bit, wherever there was a failure, wherever there was the biggest corruption, who died, who was the most endangered? Well, workers who lost jobs, who now have over a million. Of course, we as a party to the social democratic province are exclusively directed to sacrifice restructuring and victims of further privatisation, which must be completed, not just workers, but to bear the burden of all of it. First political authorities, those who make decisions in the country, then employers, then workers who have to have clear programmes, good programmes to be requalified and qualified, to enter again and to have the opportunity to be those who participate in the labour market. Why is our public private partnership at a very low level? It's just because of corruption in local self-government and state administration. I hope this strategy will help make this sector, which can also be a serious source of investment and development in our country, finally come to life, even though we have legislation. Of course, in addition to this elaborate what it can mean and how this strategy will be directed and what results it can have in the future, we'll see, that's what SDPS can't say right now, but we can point to some things that aren't even good at this strategy. The first thing I would point to in that domain is, although I am not a lawyer, the issue of the Constitution and the question of legal regulation. When it comes to education and sport, it is said that a lack of regulation is the issue of private higher education institutions, since adequate standards and quality control mechanisms are not prescribed, which opens up the possibility of abuse within these education systems. Gentlemen, the 2005 Higher Education Act has clearly defined this. The Commission for Accreditation and Quality Verification, based on the Constitution, where private property and private sector are fully equal with the state sector, controls the same private institutions, both highly educational and state institutions. Now this is a very serious question that requires a bigger, more intense discussion, remember that you today have seven accredited private universities, next to the state. That you have a whole army of students studying there. High school 18. Why would they be exposed to bigger, more external control? Isn't that how private capital is discriminated against? Should there be state institutions in this country alone? That will be the way to the disappearance of our country. I'm finishing up, and I'm sorry, Mr. President, for extending my speech a little bit. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia, despite the suggestions and remarks it has, will support the strategy's proposal day, and we hope it will bring the right results in full capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19728	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19729	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry he's not a minister, because I wanted to commend him. To commend him, since he read these two national strategies very well and to commend his enthusiasm. But that enthusiasm, in our opinion, is quite unfounded. Mr. Minister here expressed one opinion that Serbia is a rich country. He is wrong, Mr. Minister, Serbia is the poorest country, one of the poorest in Europe. But in 2001, when the government of Zoran Djindjic was established, the country was destroyed because of the effects of the work of political equalists, Mr. Justice Minister and State Administration. So when we talk about poverty and wealth, we have to think about how 20 years have been lost and how this could have happened today for Serbia to be poor. I didn't see anyone from power, nor did you, Mr. Minister, or anyone from your ministry, ask for an apology and forgiveness from Serbian citizens for stealing 20 years of their lives for the direct operation of the political forces that are still in power today, because of their wrong political concept, regardless of what was done by sarto-mortals and what was taken over by the LDP policy, which will produce some results in terms of Eurointegration. So, 20 years of lost life, and that's why Mr. Minister, you have no right to criticise privatisation, because for the compromise of privatisation, and that's exactly how these political like-mindeds of yours, as I say, legal-political predecessors have made a huge contribution. I agree with you that a lot of things in privatization were wrong and wrong. However, we must not lose sight of this, that the tills in 2001 were empty and that the citizens were maximumly impoverished. Therefore, when we say such things, it would be good to think about our own responsibility, about the responsibility of that political option which and how it played a role in this whole disaster, with which this country began the 21st century. Mr. Minister, why I'm saying that this enthusiasm you've brought here has no quality, and why it's unfounded. So, Mr. Minister, that there is simply no change in the value system on which you should build all these good intentions and good wishes, which you listed in national strategies, and for the judiciary, its reform, and for the fight against corruption. The value system is the infrastructure that needs to carry all these euphemisms that you listed in national strategies, which is a beautiful euphemism, because if I were ironic, I would say that this national strategy on judicial reform is "drunk baba lan" but I'm not ironic. And that's why I'm talking about euphemisms. When we read them, all of these, the efficiency of the judiciary, the improvement of the judiciary, independence, legal certainty, responsibility, the rule of law, in which you put the rule of law as a sign of a quote. Do you actually ironize this notion, which is so important, and so crucial to the functioning of a single judiciary? Professionality, trust in the judicial system, quality improvement, impartiality, transparency etc., etc. So those are all empty words unless they're followed by the essence. Indeed, there is a reasonable doubt that this substance has been lost or has not been done at all. Your behaviour as Minister, your Ministry has not given us the right to believe that the value system is the one that was established in the 1990s, since you actually changed your uniforms and became Europeans. Why am I saying that, Mr. Minister? The system of values means that you find out what's right and what's wrong and what's wrong and what's wrong with creating a national strategy for judicial reform. To know exactly where to go with this strategy, what is the aim, how will this strategy be implemented, and what is ultimately expected to be the final result when this national strategy is achieved? You obviously don't understand that it's a bad thing to exchange candy with Hague defendants and convicts. You forget why they found themselves in The Hague and why they have to answer to the International Court of Justice for everything that happened in the 1990s. You don't understand why it's a problem when you demonstrate with extremists against the verdict of an international court. You're also Mr. Minister's lawyer, you're both Minister of Justice and State Administration, and you know very well that there are legal medicines and that simply one lawyer can't, as any layman, give his dissatisfaction to one court decision by demonstrating in the street, in front of the parliament building, the supreme, legislative and representative body. So that's the problem of not understanding the new value system that you're supposed to promote, but obviously you're not capable of it. For this reason, we think that these national strategies have no chance of success. All of what you've listed here as basic principles is actually one concept of judicial reform that any political option could support. So it is we who advocate both the independence of the judiciary, and the expertise, and the impartiality, and the transparency of work, and the rule of law, etc. However, the difference between us and you is that what we really think, and you wrote here and you think that by actually transferring this whole job to one reform committee, which is going to form some groups for certain jobs again, you're going to form some sub-groups for the change of the Constitution, that you're going to make one secretariat that's actually going to be the right hand of this commission, that you're going to actually implement the reform of the judiciary. Mr. Minister, that's not how it works. So you won't be able to do it in such a bureaucratic way, by transferring responsibility for judicial reform, which is a political issue, so it's a political decision to reform the judiciary, to transfer to such bodies, such as commissions, groups and subgroups. You know, there's a golden rule -- whenever you don't really think about doing something, you form a commission and you charge it to carry out what you imagined. This is exactly what this is all about, Mr. Minister, about that golden rule. It was not the last reform of the judiciary that failed because of some bureaucratic error, but because there was no political will, there was no political consensus in the coalition itself in power, there was no political consensus with the public, therefore, in society as a whole, with the opposition, and you, Mr. Minister, were then in opposition. So there was no clear consensus on how we see the judiciary, how we reform it, which way we're going to move. The other day there was Mrs. Nevena Petrusic, Commissioner for Equality. She spoke of the problem of the value system that generates intolerance, discrimination that actually generates human rights violations. So it's that this is a fundamental problem today in Serbia, and that is why we think that you have no capacity and you have no ability to present this reform and to combat corruption and to reform the judiciary. Mr. Minister, you're in favour of judicial independence. Then when we look at how this reform committee is going to work, from which members will be composed, from which all the institutions will come, when we look at that 15 members in that commission, then we can conclude that it will be a rogue, complicated body, which simply will not be operational and efficient. Let's not talk about further transfer of jurisdiction from that commission to these working groups and subgroups. The executive power, according to this strategy, continues to play a key role in the judiciary, is still the executive power that will actually lead the whole process, although you have somehow stepped aside and camoufled your influence as executive authorities on this judicial reform, all through that commission that will now be dominant. Interestingly, she will obviously be the only one responsible if the judicial reform fails. Mr. Minister, it's about that, when you're ready to listen to our objections, I'll continue. (President: You go ahead. All right, thank you. It is that the commission cannot be the one who will be the main bearer of judicial reform. You've been doing something for a year, you say – we don't see results. The president of the Supreme Cassation Court's shift could be the result. That's not commendable. Perhaps you're the result of, let's say, the fact that you've passed that disastrous Amnesty Act that has released a large number of criminals to freedom, who have actually become returnees. I really don't think that's commendable, either. You've had a year to do something, you've done nothing, you've done what you've done better if you haven't done it, and then you're going out with this commission's proposal and that's great. Now, Mr. Minister, let's move on. By listing the good principles, by saying how much you wanted to bring justice to that citizen who is actually the most desirable of these justices, you didn't finish the job. You'll finish the job if you take the fight against corruption seriously. So these two things are really connected to you, and judicial reform and the fight against corruption. If they are connected and you seriously think that you are reforming the judiciary and you are fighting corruption, then first of all, you must inform your political colleague, Deputy Prime Minister Vukic, that he, even if he is Vice President, or Vice Prime Minister, must coordinate his actions with the institutions, i.e. let the institutions do his job, both the police and the prosecution and the courts. So one cannot fight corruption, one cannot fight such a marketing way seriously against such a serious problem. That's the first thing you should do. The next thing you know, Mr. Minister, is to check -- how is it possible that the Constitutional Court decided a year ago to return to the courts and prosecutors about a thousand unselected judges and prosecutors? Don't tell me it's a legal decision. It's a political decision. Mr. Minister, maybe it's a political decision, in terms of a policy of courting a new government that was already failing at the time. So the bottom line is that there are among the thousands of judges and prosecutors, and 600 judges and prosecutors who joined the SNS. So these are the judges and prosecutors, your political colleagues who have been returned to the courts, without any criteria. It was simply clear that they were returned as a result of some pre-election promises. If you really think you're dealing with the fight against corruption, and some national strategy, here's a chance for you to work out that national strategy a little bit, taking care of what's going on in Serbia. Serbia is not Mars. So here we have a real situation. Were you, Mr. Minister, in almost one of the courts in Serbia, irrelevant whether Belgrade is concerned, is there a court in the interior, from Vojvodina, important to be just one court, a basic court, for example? If you were, you could see the true state, image and opportunity of the Serbian judiciary. You didn't have to go to another city, you'd be told there, on the spot. Were you, Mr. Minister, almost in some local self-government, in some institution, were you in a cataster, Mr. Minister? Do you know, say, that the law has arrived in the assembly procedure of the state premiere and the cataster, which makes discrimination regarding wages between those who are geodetic professions and those who are not, or what are legal professions? You're here saying something about the Catastre of immovableity. Are you aware of how much less paid than, say, geodetic engineers or officials, officials who work in the same place, one has a geodetic school, the other has no, those with geodetics, even though they do the same job, will have far more pay? So that's one of the ways that you can bring down legal certainty, because you're going to let, record and registration of immovableity be very important if you want to attract foreign investment, how you're going to attract them, if you're in some way making it impossible for this Catastre of immovableity. This is one example of how these national strategies lack one fundamental reflection and one real relationship to the state of life in Serbia. To finish, Mr. Minister, you were talking about the purpose and efficiency of your trial, that you really want these trials to be impartial, independent, quality, etc. When you came back...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19730	Please, just a second, dear fellow Members, allow the MP to complete the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19731	... to the previous state, when you returned the number of judges, about 1,000 judges and prosecutors, so again in courts, how do you think you work effectively with so many judges and how will you actually solve the issue of this geographical location of courts. So the judicial laws go through the door to this Assembly, and somehow they come out the window and we can't determine the number of judges and the required network of courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19732	The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19733	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will stick exclusively to the strategy, which is beautiful and drinkable to read, in fact, represents the wish list itself, without the action plan, but when there is an action plan on the agenda, then something more about it. What has particularly caused the debate here, of course not the official debates, which the Justice Reform Strategy foresees is the need to amend the constitutional framework and, in fact, it foresees a change in the Constitution. If this National Strategy for Justice Reform, in fact, is a reason to open the issue of the change of the Constitution and that of the same constitution, that of the Hajduk and Cossack that was brought up in 2006, during the night as if it were in the style of the AVNOJ session, which is what the demochrists spoke about in 2006, and even the Ivory Coast discussed its Constitution for six months, then we would be willing to support this strategy without having to read a single letter, but we read it well, we also read the action plan, but here is not the key issue of changing the Constitution, some other time. The question here is whether the reasons set out in this strategy actually justify its change. I'm going to try to take a turn, sticking to the strategy just mentioned. At the very beginning, I must stress that every strategy on judicial reform is one achieved level of awareness on all relevant issues for the judiciary and whatever the legislative framework in which the judiciary of one country acts, the application of these laws, always remains on an individual level, that is, in the hands of judges, who are not, of course, no mythic beings, god of day, but only people of blood and flesh and there is no doubt that it is very difficult to achieve this balance, between, on the one hand, independence and the other hand, impartiality of judges, efficiency, justice, and third and fourthly, if you will, too, because independence and impartiality requires a high degree of freedom, and of course, which among the lawyers is formulated as free judicial conviction, and I am asking you to further formulate that free judicial conviction, since that freedom many take this freedom literally. So, justice as one special sense of justice that a judge should cherish for years is the expression of the personality of the judges that has been built up for years. The balance I mentioned in no country in the world was due to the intervention of the executive authority in the judiciary, in the judiciary, is that, as the third branch of government, but where such a balance was achieved. It was obtained by once decades of judicial construction of the judicial system by harming the complex social institution. I have a complete understanding of this already-exposed use of the word reform, of which I am genuinely sick. I have to say that no judicial system that is reformed can be good in the foreseeable future. You know, reform can't be done overnight. Every judicial reform first destroys that judiciary, and we are already witnesses to it, followed by long and hard construction, and we saw it on past reform, but despite numerous criticisms then, this parliament has decided that some things must break over its knees. A few years later, we came into a situation to act on that principle, let's start all over again. My final court will depend on the action plan, which I have a lot to talk about when he's presented. What's good in this strategy is that no dramatic fractures are predicted, but history is there to teach us, that any sudden defeat, in this system, actually destroys the judicial function in the judiciary, makes it insecure, and whoever judges, always judges the lives and rights of some people, and doesn't feel insecure in his position, because if he feels it, then he won't judge it properly. In order to look at this strategy in its entirety and to assess the rule, we must first see, which is why the Serbian judiciary is so bad. It's bad for one simple reason that's been formulated long ago in one sentence. The days when our society since 1990 went further into the process of changing both economic and political and administrative systems and all other possible systems, whatever they may be, this country decided first to jump and then to say – hop. I'm afraid this country has never understood and that as a society, we haven't understood one simple thing, which is that it's not the essence of justice to bring justice. I don't think in that sense it's even an adequate name for the Ministry of Justice, before the Ministry of Justice or the Minister of Justice, but it's someone else, because whoever thinks justice is something that a man can bring, actually thinks of himself as no less, no more, but God, and justice is a religious concept. If you want, it's a philosophical notion, and if you want more detail, you have that Aristotle notion of justice, you can read it, but I'll talk about it later when I talk about this principle of quality of justice, a very interesting principle. On the contrary, the purpose of justice is to resolve social conflicts. Of course, from Hamurabi, all through Cicero, Constantine the Great and Emperor Dusan, the courts have a basic task to resolve all conflicts in one society, and that those free conflicts between people who ended in blood, and all those other conflicts that arise over property, employment, families, etc. Of all the things I've said so far, I have, of course, one dilemma, and of course, it's that no single dinar is going to increase our standard until the courts are actively and on time to solve their problems, and there are too many of them. In the context of economic conflicts over the economy are urgent. If we look at statistics, then we can make many companies fail precisely because they were the consequences of years of court proceedings. Of course, if we look at the text of the strategy you see one exact number. It is that there are some 3.5 million court proceedings in Serbia. Seven million people, if we take them as frames to have seven in our country, it's a dramatic number. We have about 2,000 judges, which means we actually have about 1,700 court cases on one judge. If we look at a parallel legal analysis in Serbia, Serbia with seven million inhabitants had 1,900,000 new court proceedings in 2012. Great Britain with 63 million inhabitants that same year had only 2,340,000 new court cases. So in Serbia, every 3.6 inhabitants are subject to one court case, and in Great Britain, for example. on one court case came to every 27 inhabitants. Now he should not be smart to realize that there are seven and a half times more court cases in Serbia, but imagine in the UK. In the context of this, I must, of course, set an example. In 1971, Germany had about 13,000 judges in its judicial system. However, as it became clear that the Berlin Wall would fall, that there would be a unification of East and West Germany, while in that same Germany was developing awareness that in fact transforming the communist East Germany into a completely marketable, and a democratic society would cause more conflicts in society than before. That awareness led to the fact that it went there to increase the number of judges to 21,000 and the same in 1971. Although Western Germany was then already a society, unlike East Germany, which would become, of course, only later, as such was the basis for its development, however, the number of judges was increased to make the judiciary effective, and in order to deal with all the challenges brought by both economic and political transformation. However, we keep avoiding telling the truth, which is that Serbia does not have enough judges. Serbia is in imminent need of an increase in the number of judges. Economists should not worry about my desire to increase the number of judges, because you can be sure that every dinar invested in the judiciary has been coming back multiple times, if this judiciary is effective one day, if the speed of solving court cases increases, and that speed of solving court cases reduces the total cost of the economy, and the economy itself, in fact, releases one long-term waiting for a solution to the problem of which the delay is never possible. Of course, now I'm going to start something more concrete about the very text of judicial reform. On the first page, I have to say I have some criticism. On page 1, you say a new strategy provides the continuity of judicial reform. On the other hand, you're talking about it's not really continuity, it's a new strategy. On page three, this is reform reform. Now I don't understand what this strategy represents? With regard to these key principles and priorities, you systematically put them together in five, I'm just asking you to explain this principle of quality of justice. I really don't understand him. I know about Aristotle's concept of justice. I know that earthly beings tend to be just, and that justice is the same, in fact, the concreteization of justice in an individual case, and that's what it's trying to do, with everything that's legal doesn't have to be fair. Please explain to me this principle of quality of justice. It's something I don't know about like this. You're talking about solving cases within reasonable time limits. That's something I have to commend. Finally and last year, the Constitutional Court for the first time established a violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time and the right to live in the case of Topcider, which has been under investigation for nine years. That's the efficiency of the judiciary. Of course, I'll commend what's scheduled, which is called solving the case within reasonable time limits. With regard to improving the status of the High Council of the judiciary, the State Council of Prosecutors and the normative regulation of the responsibilities of these two bodies. There's actually talk here about some bright future of justice, although I don't think it can be bright. It can't be bright because the whole strategy, at least in this form in which it is located, is actually creating an oligarchy thanks to the Judicial Academy, which takes over the jurisdiction and the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors for proposing candidates. They actually formally continue to propose these candidates, but from that list provided to them by the Judicial Academy, so the basic role of these institutions is to just forward the list further, i.e. Parliament, and until parliament as a legislator one day is completely excluded from all of this. We see that this strategy and its action plan are heading in that direction. Of course, I have to do this on this occasion, since you're present, to take the opportunity for some of the employees of the Judicial Academy to say they don't justify it at all, but they have to defend it by "exofication," whatever that means. As far as equating court practice is concerned, this is where the Supreme Court of Cassation is mentioned. Unmistakable importance, it will have an accessible comprehensive court decision base, etc. It's all right, but this is the way you've formulated the unification of court practice, I'm afraid, we belong, as far as I know, to the continental legal system, and this is how you contribute to its approximation to the Anglo-Saxon legal system, so at the very least, we're approaching precedent law. I think you're going to have a hard time implementing this kind of thing in practice, a team before it breaks at least in this way that formulated the unification of court practice, you're disrupting the independence of the judge's office, and in particular, what I've already said, free jurisprudence. Here's a concrete example, Mr. Minister, for domestic violence, one bigger one says there's only one store for the existence of that part. The Council of another court will say that the existence of this crime requires that the action be continued, i.e. permanent, while, for example, a major third court will say that more actions must be taken towards the injured for the existence of the crime. Let's just say, out of three attitudes like this, what would you choose? It's about equating court practice. As far as the reformers are concerned, I've already said that, of course, as far as the Judicial Academy is concerned, but when it comes to the need for amendments to the constitutional frameworks, and then you're talking about solutions, excluding the National Assembly from the process of electing the president of the courts, judges, public prosecutors, etc., I won't read everything, I have to tell me whether this strategy for judicial reform tends to change the constitution just to implement it. I'll tell you why the constitutional change is required. You know how, the system, or the Constitution, serves not to change the system, to which one comes to mind, so it is also the highest legal act, no matter what I think of the Constitution. What I meant, I said. It's like when we make a mistake and we buy the wrong door for the house, so instead of buying the right door for the house, we knock down the house to make it look like a bought door. Of course, here it's as if it's carrying out an intention or at least that's what it seems to me, that the judiciary is completely marginalized and actually placed under the control of the executive authority, controlled by a single center, and that center is called the Judicial Academy. What's very interesting is the fact that the director of that judicial academy doesn't even have a legal exam. The responsibility for the implementation of the objectives of the reform strategy, consisting of 15 members and now lists which members are and I find it very interesting here that you did not mention anywhere the category of assistants, so those who work very hard and as if they were somehow deliberately abandoned. At this point you have 2,500 assistants, so I think at least they should deserve, if nothing else, to be mentioned in this strategy, something later on, to be mentioned in this strategy especially because they have an association and imagine it, at a republican level. They have submitted an initiative to the Constitutional Court, and while we are already at the Constitutional Court, there are three initiatives submitted to the Constitutional Court, all in relation to Article 40. The law on the Judicial Academy, and its position 8, of course something later, if time allows, and I will also use the time of my parliamentary group. With regard to unclear standards of choice, recalls, results of work, advances for judges, etc., you're speaking here, in fact, you've put a point somewhere, and you're supposed to place a decimal, and then finish your sentence by the end of this justice strategy. You're saying the state's major prosecutor didn't file a sublegal act. He wrote a regulation on the evaluation of the work of prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, and it was sent to Brussels, and you should know that, since you're a member of the State's Attorney's Office. You say further – The High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Chief Prosecutors did not file sublaws that would establish criteria, criteria and procedures for the progress and evaluation of the work of judges and public prosecutors, that is, the deputy public prosecutors, although they were obliged under the law of 90 days from the date of the Council's constitution. All that is true, only you had to insert the next sentence, which is that it was the obligation of the First Council of the State Council of the Prosecutors of 2009 and not of the State Council of Prosecutors elected in April 2011. You're supposed to put the decimal here, so you can keep your sentence to the end. On the other hand, you say that in December 2010, the VSS adopted an ethical code, and the state's major prosecutors still have to bring it in. He doesn't need to bring it, since it's already done, he just needs to be off the record, of course. As for that, you also say, you are not finishing a sentence on the State's Council of Prosecutors again, I do not know for what reason, the State's Major Prosecutors elected their disciplinary bodies on 20 May 2013. Now, the ethical code DVT is also at the final stage. I don't know why you didn't put this information on the State Council of Prosecutors in the strategy, and since they're correct. Of course, as far as making the SAP program, I could do it for an hour, about that, but I don't have time. Within the framework of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the introduction of SAPO software is included in the IPA 2008 project, etc. I have to talk this fast so I can tell everything I have. It can be said here that this is about a classic abduction on a non-serious project, which doesn't even make sense that it's originally set up. It is designed so that it should actually enable electronic tracking of the case, by scanning everything that reaches the Public Prosecutor's Office, however, a system has been designed to scan only the first page on which the bar code is located – that is, when you go to the store and buy a product, those cartoons and numbers below what they type on your register. One of my colleagues, who is a public prosecutor's situation, has been funnyly harassed when he started this training, so he asked the girl who trained them, "What if he came to me, say, 10 kilos of evidence? Are you going to scan all that? Am I going to have everything in electronic form? "She says to him, "No. You'll only have the first page." So much for that. In the economy, the situation is even more catastrophic. Only what's important is being scanned. I don't know who's gonna judge what's important. If they're going to evaluate, then you should've put it to the judge's appraisal, not that one of the administrative staff, or, God forbid, someone in the office, decides what's important and what's not. So, the result of this current electronic monitoring of regulations and these current trainings is the current libre plus scanning the first page with all the code. With regard to the effective use of resources in the judiciary and the prosecution, there is one sentence: "The process of transferring responsibility for the delivery of letters to the private sector has not been started. It is delivered to all courts via mail and delivery officers in courts." That's very interesting because it opens up a wide range of potential abuses. For example, those who are completely professional suppliers, as mail officers, should be replaced by employees in the private sector, who are generally underpaid and who often work as temporary and have nothing to lose and that can lead to the very harmful consequences that I have been talking about, in the form of failure to deliver and so on. For example, imagine me being in cahoots with some delivery guy and telling me not to deliver, for example, for a while. Perfect for abuse and further spreading corruption. I'll end up here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19734	Thank you. National MP Milica Radovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19735	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the ministry, today we are discussing two very important documents that should point to the way and direction that the state will take when it comes to judicial reform and the fight against corruption. These are issues of enormous importance, not just for the rule of law, but for the overall democratic and economic development of the state. I must admit that I really expected these documents, primarily from the National Strategy for Justice Reform, to offer a clear answer to the question of how we are today to get out of the very difficult situation in which the judiciary is located. Unfortunately, instead, we have received an empty act that is full of principled attitudes and that does not even depart from the precise, precise and clearly established cause of a poor situation in the judiciary today. This strategy, in my opinion, seems to have been written for some ideal time. It's as if it was written in a time when we still need to go into judicial reform, whose goal would be to make the already effective judiciary even more effective anyway. I am very sorry that the creators of this strategy did not pay attention and seriousness to the analysis of the situation in the judiciary today, because if they had done so, this strategy would have been a much more concrete document today. We seem to ignore the fact that since 2008, we haven't had one disastrously poor reform of the judiciary that has, in the right sense, broken the judicial system. Of course, I expected the creators of this strategy to become aware of the seriousness and gravity of the situation in the judiciary today. I'm sorry that such an approach was avoided today, or somehow missing. As a result of the previously implemented reform of the judiciary that was characterized by the enormous, unbearable influence of the executive authority and intolerable political pressure, we have today received the judiciary in which the judges and prosecutors were intimidated, we have received a judiciary where judges and prosecutors work in the atmosphere of fear and uncertainty for their positions, we have received a judiciary that produced a network of courts that is such that, for example, one person, when it is due to turn to the court, has to go up to 100 km in one direction to submit the most ordinary submission. Of course, as a result of such a reform of the judiciary, we also got that the courts today are unwarranted and I would say completely overloaded by the inflow of new cases. When I say this, I keep in mind the Belgrade judiciary. As a result of such a strategy and judicial reform, we have been given the right to a fair trial today, that the access of citizens to justice is completely difficult. Of course, the ineffectiveness of court proceedings has increased dramatically. Of course, we are not talking about the inaccessible costs that such judicial reform has produced precisely because we have been voting in parliament here. When I say to me, I mean the majority that existed in that moment, and the DSS was always a party that voted against every law that the ministry had proposed before, because we realized the seriousness of the gravity of the situation that would arise after the election of those laws. We financed this passing of the law an incredible amount of ignorance from those who referred such laws to the Assembly and I would say that we financed one will, based on the complete absence of any strategy, in which direction what they did should bring us. If we add to all this that re-election of judges has been carried out in a non-transparent way, that it has been carried out in a completely non-negular way, that we have lost one-third of the judicial staff overnight in the courts, and that a few years after that we have received the decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, which is one third of the judges and prosecutors, is done somewhere around a thousand of them, the justice-holders, returns to the judicial system, then it shows in the simplest and simplest way how much the execution of such judicial reform was. Of course, the question is, why am I saying all this? Because I think the time has come to draw a line and say who is to blame for such a situation in the judiciary, whether anyone will suffer the consequences of a series of bad moves that such judicial reform has produced. I think that's necessary. I think the strategy had to, with a clear analysis, point to the cause of what led to us today having this situation in the judiciary. Of course, there's not a word about it in the strategy. It is no doubt that today's most responsible for the state of justice are the former members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors and the current members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, who have hardly compromised Serbia's judicial system. When we say it and realize it, and not only do I, but it speaks about it to the entire professional public, it was then expected that these members would not be engaged in strategic decisions, and certainly the national justice reform strategy is one of those issues. First of all, they lost the trust of their colleagues, because you know how they were chosen, that one third of the people in the judiciary had no right to talk about their choice, or to plead. They lost the citizens of Serbia's trust. It has been expected for me that those who form this strategy, that those who propose to adopt this act today, will be aware that it is impossible for the rule of law to build with those who are constantly deaf about the principles on which the rule of law rests. I'm sorry there's no such approach. Of course, I especially apologize for insisting so much on this issue, and I do so solely because I feel it is necessary to convince the representatives of the Justice Department that this is the first question you have to solve when we talk about subsequent reform of the judiciary, i.e. repairing the situation in the judiciary itself. This is a previous question without any subsequent question, or solution cannot be permanent and cannot survive for long. I am pleased that on the other side of the strategy it has been established that the capacities of key justice players are causing concern. Of course, this is about members of the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, but I have to admit, I'm not glad that I'm just being concerned. Not one, let's say, exit element, exit mechanism, how to make the judiciary better, and how to get that concern out of the way and make things better in the judiciary. It is simply not enough to express concern, not to foresee measures for its resolution, because it creates an impression in the public that those who were most important for the creation of justice earlier, in fact instead of determining their responsibility, are rewarded for what they were doing, and that is, of course, bad. In addition to the fact that this strategy does not provide for a solution to the fundamental problem in the judiciary, it does have some very strange findings in its text. For example, a new strategy is said to ensure the continuity of judicial reform, etc., etc. So, do the creators really think that what has been done so far is successful? You yourself here in parliament said you found the ruins. How, then, can we write in a strategic principle document that the objective of the strategy is to ensure the continuity of judicial reform? Who wrote this strategy? Minister, I know, knowing you, that you didn't write this strategy. This strategy has been written by some who do not have much to do with justice and the state of justice today. Then, on page 2, it is said – for the sake of more successful implementation of the reform measures, it is necessary to carry out a comprehensive functional analysis of Serbia's judiciary within one year of the day of adoption of the strategy. I guess, come on, we shouldn't be lawyers here, I guess we're doing a preliminary analysis to get a strategic document. It's not like the strategy's been written and we haven't done the state of affairs before, and we're looking at the state of justice today, are we? Don't, please, say these words that we have in the strategy, these are really big mistakes. Who wrote the strategy, I'm really asking you to answer this question? I'm humiliated by words like this. I'm shocked when I read this. Furthermore, it is said, there are many other things that are illogical to me, but on page eight it is said that certain definitions of this strategy require a change of the Constitution. Then one of the most logical questions is asked. No matter what my relationship with whether or not the Constitution should be changed, we leave it on the side, it does not matter at this time, but one logical question is asked – how then this strategy that offers a series of solutions that involve changing the Constitution can be in line with the Constitution. As and on the basis of which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs took the view that this strategy is in line with the Constitution. I say again, here you don't have to be a lawyer, to understand the seriousness of what you wrote, in negativity, what you wrote in the strategy. This strategy cannot be in line with the Constitution if it provides for a series of solutions that involve changing the Constitution. I guess these solutions should be attached to the solutions given by the constitutional framework. It seems to me that there's been some illogical order in the moves. Is the strategy being adopted to change the Constitution or does the Constitution change to bring a strategy? Such mistakes are indeed inadmissible for those of us who expect to have an active participation in the construction of the rule of law. When we talk further about the way the strategy was made, I need to express my opinion, my understanding and my point of view. I'm really sorry and I think it's harmful that the Association of Prosecutors and Associations of Judges did not participate in the development of a strategy. It was necessary to take the arguments they made very seriously, of which the basics should be set when writing such a strategy. It is not enough that the strategy only offers key principles which are the natural continuation of those principles on which the previous strategy was based and is not enough to offer only strategic objectives. She had to offer an answer to the question – how can we achieve these strategic goals? I'm talking about a series of principles, I don't have time to analyze everything, but I'm going to say whether the principle of independence of the justice system that is the first principle here is possible with the current composition of the VSS and the State Council of Prosecutors, with a body that is so to say, every decision from the re-election process of judges, was made in an illegal manner. It is not my personal position, and you know for a fact that there is a decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. What I'm talking about, this is the entire professional public speaking in the report, the Commissioner for Public Information, whose report we adopted here the other day. It also says the Citizens' Protector whose report brilliantly described the situation in the judiciary and everything that was happening in the meantime, with a clear apostrophe of all those who are guilty of such a difficult situation in the judiciary. That is what the European Commission, the European Parliament in its March 2012 resolution, speaks of the European Council, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in its resolution of January 2012. Therefore, all relevant and relevant, both domestic and international factors that are very interested in the situation in the judiciary today, are talking about this. When we look at what they wrote in their reports, there is one common constant. Those members of the VSS, which are formerly, which are presently characterized by persons who are incompetent, unworthy and unprofessional. I think that this must have been some starting point from writing this strategy and, above all, from the goal that it wants to achieve and the way it can be done. If I am not mistaken, you are from European experts, somewhere in December last year you received a proposal for reform measures and if I am not mistaken, one of these first measures is the choice of members of the VSS and the State Council of Prosecutors. When it comes to the principle of responsibility, do you think that the working version of the rulebook on criteria for the evaluation of judges, which is still a working version, I don't think that the rule has been adopted, do you think it should and can be guaranteed the quality of the judge's performance results? I don't think so. For a simple reason, because if we look at this draft rules for the evaluation of the work of judges, then we see that he will turn judges into judgment-sustaining machines, which will be much less guided by making sure that each case is properly devoted to each case, rather than by getting as many points or points as possible, primate to solve those cases that are false. The harder cases will be left on the sidelines. Why am I saying that? Why that rule does not depart from the difference in structure and in the complexity of the subject. He's completely equating the easy objects with those difficult disputes. Every judge, even if I were a judge, I'd give primate to easier objects, because it's up to me in the judiciary, whether I stay or not. This ultimately comes down to one of the basic criteria for success in work. I think it's very bad, I don't think we should give primate to the quantity, but it should be given the quality that certain things are being solved. This rule also doesn't come from a way to find a solution for solving old cases? It also comes from ideal conditions. Just look at the Belgrade judiciary, see how many cases in the work each judge faces today in the Belgrade judiciary. In such a situation when you predict ideal conditions for solving old objects I don't think it will have an excessive effect. Furthermore, when it comes to the principle of efficiency and the establishment of an effective network of courts, we see the Ministry of Justice wandering a little bit in this regard. Recently in the assembly procedure, we had the Law on the Network of Courts, more specifically the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Prosecutors, which, among other things, provides for the existence of courts in KIM territory. When the process, I say, of the Brussels negotiations and negotiations approached its unfortunate end, a quick move from the assembly procedure was drawn from the bill that had previously been sent to the assembly procedure. Of course, he was withdrawn for only one reason, because the Brussels-based agreement came to the conclusion that it is necessary to abolish Serbian institutions, more specifically the institutions of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo, and the first one to be abolished is the basic court in Kosovo Mitrovica, and the process should continue. I'm really worried about what I read in the strategy, which is that we should match the network of our courts with the Brussels Agreement. You know what, the one who dares to put such a single thing in the draft or, let me say, a proposal for a national strategy for judicial reform just shows that we as a state don't deserve a better status in the international community, international relations, we don't deserve a better status with that Germany, which is asking a lot of questions about our status today, precisely because we ourselves don't respect ourselves. If I'm not mistaken, that Brussels Agreement was adopted in the form of a report right here in the Parliament itself. What are we doing? How do we build a national strategy for judicial reform? Today we see that regardless of all this and regardless of the de facto recognition of Kosovo's independence, we are not getting a date today. We are not getting a date, and whatever we have done, we will not get it, because the EU is clearly sending a message that it does not want Serbia in its membership. That should be said publicly, and it would be very good for our presidents to understand the message they received today. Since my time is running out, I don't have time to deal with this other strategy, which is significantly much better text than this previous one, which is a strategy to fight corruption. I must say that we will not accept this text because we believe it to be an empty act, which does not solve and offers no clear answer to overcome the difficult situation in the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19736	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19737	Dear President, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, the national strategy for judicial reform is undoubtedly a document of great importance, primarily because the document contains guidelines or should contain guidelines for the pathway to the formation of one of the pillars of government in Serbia, in particular, it is the judicial authority. On the other hand, the judicial reform strategy we are discussing is not a new document. It is a continuous reform process that began in 2006 and was due to last until 2011, but with a number of burdens, mistakes, failures that are already burdening this strategy. On the other hand, by adopting a judicial reform strategy, Serbia fulfils its obligations to the EU and at the same time fulfils the conditions for EU entry. However, it should be recalled that the EU's representatives are in charge of the area of justice during the 2006-2011 reform process of a number of objections to Serbia's judicial reform process and these objections were also established. Therefore, when we are discussing judicial reform in Serbia, we must first start from the mistakes and failures that occurred during that period, to remove these mistakes, to resolve the consequences that these mistakes have made, and to make good solutions even better and more high-quality, all in order for citizens of Serbia to achieve judicial protection through quality justice, to achieve judicial protection in a way that implies that courts work effectively, to work professionally and to be the holders of judicial functions that, from the point of view of expertise and dignity, deserve to be the holders of these judicial functions. Of course, that's what happens. The universal principle, which is the satisfaction of justice, because justice is shared in courts. In an analysis of the reform of the judiciary, one uncontested fact is that the judicial reform process has started and stopped. It stopped in 2011 when it ceased that there is a legal framework for further judicial reform, when reform processes stop and when problems accumulate and build up. Of course these problems are present today and of course we are facing these problems right now through this strategy. What is very important to point out, when it comes to judicial reform, is that each of these principles contained in the judicial reform strategy in Serbia is rather burdened or even doubted. Why? Because, as I said earlier, rough mistakes were made in the reform process between 2006 and 2011. When we talk about the principle of independence, it has already been questioned by the system's own solution. We have brought the principle of independence into serious doubt that the judicial independence, and all of us are full of the mouths of independence of the judiciary, has just been involved by the legislative authority. It is inadmissible, indeed, that any authority, any body, or even the body of the legislative authority should be involved in the judicial authority. How is he involved? Simply because a transitional system solution has been regulated that judges first elected to the judicial office and for a three-year period have been decided, or regulated to decide on the choice of these judges for the holders of judicial functions by the Assembly. However, it is not the only type of interference of the legislative authority in the judicial authority. There is another, where we are all bearing sin here, MPs of this Assembly, when almost or recently, we passed a law that again because of a frantic misdemeanor in the 2006 reform process, we had to appoint all judges who had not been evaluated, and they were not evaluated in that period from 2006 to 2011, neither the guilty nor the debtors as holders of judicial functions. These people were not evaluated at all, nor satisfactory, nor unsatisfactory, but they had to get benefit in order to avoid harm or harmful consequences by the judiciary, and especially by those who were able to suffer both personal and professional damage due to this error. But this experiment, and this experiment on living people, isn't the only one that happened in this time period. Just after that came other mistakes that threatened other principles, the overwhelming principle of expertise in courts. It is too high to talk about the way in which the expertise and professional references of the holders of judicial functions are achieved. Above all, this is thanks to their quality work, and immediately thereafter, expertise is achieved through training and training both in the country and abroad, but also what is most important, by monitoring the work of judges in courts. Now let's ask a question - who has been following the work and quality of the work of judges so far? Absolutely no one. Why? Because no rules on the assessment of the quality of the work of judges were adopted from 2006 to 2011. This is indeed scandalous and was defended by a frantic bad explanation that there was and that there was a Regulation on the assessment of the work or quality of the work of judges from 1993. Mr. Minister, that was 20 years ago. In what conditions and environment did judges work in courts 20 years ago, in what legal framework? How much has that changed after 20 years without a new rule on grading the judges' work? Is there anything more to be said than the rough gaps in the reform process from 2006 to 2011? Unfortunately, in 2009 without the adoption of this Regulation, the High Council of the judiciary passed only one rule, which is the regulation on the evaluation of judges during their re-election, or not re-election in 2009. It is therefore particularly justified to ask the question – how many high-quality judges were chosen then, and even more justified is the question of how many unquality judges were re-elected? The worst of all is that by the Constitutional Court's decision not all re-elected judges were returned to the places where they worked. Therefore, they are still holders of judicial functions, regardless of whether they meet the conditions of professionality, expertise, dignity, because this has not been verified, and if verified, it has not been adequately and quality-checked. We also have today in courts and that many judges who are highly doubtful of the quality of work in appeals courts in higher courts, earlier district courts, etc. What does that indicate? It points to something that needs to be done, which should have been done by an earlier High Court meeting. This has now been shifted to the burden of this Supreme Court and the State Council of Prosecutors, which is to urgently adopt a regulation defining criteria that will be adequate, measurable, clear and precise for assessing the quality of the work of judges. In this way, the credibility of the judiciary in the EU will undoubtedly be greater, but what is far more important is that citizens will feel the courts in the right way, i.e. as a place where they will enjoy full judicial protection and where they will exercise their right to justice. The following principle, the principle of impartiality and the quality of justice, has been particularly doubtful precisely because of what my respected colleagues who spoke before me have already pointed out, and this is an unequal case law. Mr. Minister, I think it is a mistake that in the justice reform strategy, it is contained that unifying judicial practice should only be on the burden of the Supreme Court of Cassation as the highest court in the hierarchy of courts in the judicial system of the RS. Why am I saying this? For the reasons that it is those who are generators of unequal court practice, and these are the appeals courts that remain out of reach of the obligation to balance court practice. It is normal to keep the Supreme Cassation Court in mind through court positions in civil and other departments by taking certain positions that will be binding on lower levels of court. We must be honest and say that the appeals courts have largely contributed to the inequality of court practice, and this must never happen again because in the same factual and legal situation we had one ruling of the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, the second in Novi Sad, the third in Belgrade, the fourth in Nis. This creates one sense of absolute legal uncertainty among citizens. Citizens don't deserve that. Citizens deserve to get justice through court practice that will be the same for everyone because they are all equal before the law, and courts apply the law. What seems to me perhaps the most problematic in all these definitions of principle is the principle of efficiency. The efficiency of the courts implies handling in cases within reasonable time limits and in a lawful procedure. How are we treated in our courts? Let's be honest here. The biggest critics of the 2006-2011 reform process, which are members of individual professional associations of judges and prosecutors, are judges who have passed judgments six months and a year since the hearing was concluded. Not to mention the length of the proceedings that these judges were in. They gave themselves the right to criticise the judiciary from that aspect. I think the biggest problem was the lack of control, Mr. Minister, in relation to such judges. Who controlled those who did not pass judgments within the prescribed time limit, which is, for the sake of informing citizens, a period of eight days and a maximum of 30 days only in more delicate cases, i.e. in difficult cases? Let the citizens now see how many times that deadline has been exceeded. I have to point out that in any case, I can't say I don't like it because it's stupid to say it, but as a lawyer, as a man who deals with this business, I find it inadmissible that this control has passed beyond what was an obligation for the presidents of the courts who, mainly because of inappropriate solidarity, have failed to sanction the very ones who have acted in this way, which is ineffective. Fortunately, the city I come from has a court that belongs to the elite part of the justice of the Republic of Serbia. It's the Business Court in Uzic, which is the most intense and I can say it with right and pride here. It's not the court's commercials, it's because I want to give one very good stimulant for further work and for the further quality of that court. However, what is in no way good is that due to such behaviour, the judges have suffered adverse consequences, Mr Minister, so because of the violation of the trial, that is, the violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time and the violation of the right to a fair trial of citizens rather than to bring that right and justice to domestic courts before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. What's the consequence? The result is the damage suffered in all these cases where the state now suffers under the burden of its budget and how large amounts are paid on behalf of damages. Has any judge so far who has caused such a consequence fit? No, I don't. Is it going to fit? They will when we adopt laws that have entered the court procedure and there is a great recognition to the Ministry of Justice which recognized the problem and proposed a law that also places judges in individual responsibility, or personal responsibility for the damage caused in such situations by not acting in accordance with the principle of efficiency. What should appear as something that is good is that the future rule, which is being passed, on the assessment of the work of judges, will certainly contain this segment. I have to show some kind of satisfaction that the State's Major Prosecutors are already at the end of the adoption of a regulation on the evaluation and evaluation of the quality of work of prosecutors. That's good. What I did not include in this exposure is the bodies and bodies that will bear the realization of this justice reform strategy, and here I put DVT and VSS first. The High Council of the judiciary and the DVT only recently have full capacity to work and make legal decisions, full capacity both in terms of quorum and in terms of quality of work only recently. What's the matter so far? Never again must the Serbian judiciary allow itself to work in a defiled system, to work non-transparetically. This also applies to DVT, although there are significant differences. This is never the time when these two bodies and two bodies are built in a way that, under one, is legitimate and, under two, needs citizens. In order for the justice reform strategy to be life-form, it is logical that someone must follow it in implementation and that there must be a plan for implementation, primarily an action plan, or an authority and body that will implement the plan, which is the commission. Thank you, Mr. Minister, for adopting an amendment that will improve the work and membership of that committee by quality. In this way, at the same time, the so-called democratic principle of selecting members in that commission will be respected, because my amendment that you have accepted is exactly what you have indicated, that no individual can have a concentration of powers that involve proposing members, but if it is a body, and in particular it is a Committee on Justice and State Administration, then it can be a committee only. I think it's a good thing this strategy suggests a change in the Constitution, especially in the part where the Constitution already regulates something that I have pointed to as a problem, which is mixing the legislative authority into the judiciary. The constitution doesn't need to regulate it that way. I will remind you, it is precisely that provision that points to the choice of judges who are first elected to the judicial post for a three-year period. Since I have a little more time, I will later talk about something that seems very important to me, which is a network of courts, because I would ask once again and for who knows which time to check whether the network of courts, which in the judicial reform process from 2006 to 2011, is now successfully corrected? Why am I saying this? Not for local patriotic reasons, not to court the citizens of the territory I'm going from, but solely for the reason I don't think any of us have the deed to the judiciary. No one can hold the courts, but that's why we need to ensure that all citizens are available to the courts. We must ensure to all citizens that in the most efficient way, they exercise their rights in judicial proceedings. We can only do that if the network of courts is rational, efficient, that we have as many courts as possible, and that judicial units exist only where there are no legal conditions for the existence of a court. Later, Mr. President, when I speak in the domain of time given to me by the Rules of Procedure for my parliamentary group, I will speak of this a little bit closer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19738	The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19739	President-in-Office of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing two important documents, although I cannot say that these documents are such that, based on them, anything will change, neither in the fight against corruption, nor anything will change in the reform of the judiciary. I have to say that because they represent an empty story, a lot of big words, but without any concrete steps what should be done to improve the fight against corruption or judicial reform. What is good in the national strategy for judicial reform is that it represents, as it writes, the continuity of judicial reform, which was set practically in this country in 2008. What is good is that the concept set up in 2008, which includes the introduction of a judicial academy, which was introduced by law adopted by this Parliament in 2008, by the introduction of public records, by the introduction of private perpetrators, by the introduction of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, by the State Council of the Prosecutors, so all that has been done in the previous period and which is set up in one good way continues now. Of course, what new answers should be given, these are some new questions and some new developments in the previous year. I don't think this strategy answers the key burning and most important issue in the Serbian judiciary, and that's what and how to treat thousands of people who are returned to the judicial system by the Constitutional Court's decision? So, thousands of judges and prosecutors, who by the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors have been designated unworthy and unprofessional and have therefore not passed the choice, have been returned by the Constitutional Court decision, which seems to me to be a political decision, and without any checks and without any application of the criteria and criteria relating to their work. So today in the judicial system, we have thousands of people who six months or a year ago were unworthy and unprofessional, without this strategy answering the question -- how are we going to deal with this problem? I think there must have been criteria and criteria for the assessment of work, both past and present judges. That didn't happen. The high council of the judiciary has never done that. The Constitutional Court's decision has given both the judicial authorities and the Ministry the opportunity to find a way to reconsider the work of these judges, but this has not happened today. So I'm talking about a year after the Constitutional Court's decision and a year after these judges' return to the judicial system. What's been done for the past year? I feel like nothing's been done. We have a strategy where we have big words. The big words are that the judiciary should be independent and should be impartial and be effective. All ministers, even before the current minister, said the same thing from the same place he is today. What will be done specifically to make that happen? There's absolutely no plan. Personally, I think that the action plan had to be part of this strategy and we're discussing the action plan here today. We, unfortunately, will never discuss the action plan because it will be brought by the government. What the government will put into action, none of us know. I think this is particularly important when we talk about a strategy to fight corruption, where action plan and strategy were done by the task force, and then the Ministry slightly changed those final versions and sent them to the government. Is something changed in the action plan? No one knows today. My proposal in this regard is to discuss the action plan before the Committee on Justice and the anti-corruption strategy and the judicial reform strategy. What brings us back thousands of judges? You're saying that there's a large number of cases, there's a great burden on the courts, there's a large number of old cases, and as a solution, you're proposing to change the network of courts. I ask the question – how is it possible to add 1,000 to the justice system of 1,800 judges or more, and we still have a huge number of cases still have a large number of outdated cases? Something in that math isn't right, or those 1,000 judges who are returned don't do their job. In your strategy, you said that the reintegration of judges is a priority, but you don't say anywhere that these judges will be reintegrated. So you have to get the strength and courage to solve the problem of the judges who have been returned and not come into the situation that we've come to, that some of the remanded judges are either sentenced to prison sentences or are being prosecuted for corrupt crimes. Therefore, those who are unworthy must be separated from those who are professionally doing their job. This way they're all the same and nobody's good. It takes courage, and it takes an adequate plan, and there's no plan here. The main thing you're proposing is to change the network. I don't think it matters to citizens at all whether it's called a court or it's called a judicial unit and that changing from a judicial unit to a court and vice versa is actually going to be a change of board on buildings. Everywhere there are judicial units now will change the board, so it will write – court. There'll be a little more administration. You've been talking about costs, there's no cost analysis, give us an analysis, since we're already discussing the strategy, so let's see what's more expensive and what's cheaper and how is something better. It is not the judicial reform of whether there will be 35 basic courts or there will be 75 basic courts. On what criteria will this be determined? None of this is in this strategy. We'll probably discuss it when you prepare the law that was here and it's back. There's nothing new a year when we're talking about changing the law and improving the normative framework. But there is new in your authority's behaviour compared to the previous government. There is new to how they understand and see both citizens and judicial authorities. It's a new policy. It is a policy in which in the first days of power the Law on Amnesty is passed. Politically and conceptually, you thought it was necessary to pass the Law on Amnesty, let some people on the street, and these people did crimes again. We're all witnesses to it, citizens can read about it every day in the papers. As a result, the number of crimes has increased, the crime rate has increased. So, in the struggle and in principle debates and strategies, we have far more crimes than we've ever had. We're perfectly understood by the judiciary, so Stanko Subotic's verdict is lifted. The Constitutional Court understands us perfectly, so the Face is not prohibited, even though the D.A.'s office asked for it. It's a great new policy in which you've tried, if you remember, so by accepting our amendments, you've given up reducing the pedophiles penalty. You tried to reduce the sentence for those wearing guns, to make it a probation. Finally, our amendment was accepted, so it didn't happen. So politics is different and the value system is different. What it says on paper is absolutely nothing new. How does the judiciary work today and how does it fight corruption? I think we can see the same thing every day, there's not a single verdict, there's not a single sanction. That's where I move on to fighting corruption. Do you think it's possible to fight corruption, if there are no sanctions and no sanctions have been imposed in the last year for corrupting crimes? It's not a campaign fight against corruption. The fight against corruption must be done systematically, and these system solutions should have offered a strategy that system solutions do not offer. We don't know what the action plan is, so we'll see when you get it to the Assembly. In the strategy, both of you, I think you have a much greater impact and you're trying to make a much greater influence of the executive authority and of the legislative authority and of the independent regulatory bodies. You have introduced a new body, i.e. The Council, which will follow the Anti-Corruption Strategy, which will oversee the Justice Strategy. The council has a secretariat that will be absolutely under the authority of the ministry. The Ministry, or executive authority, is the one who controls judicial reform. Also, the Anti-Corruption Council, which is one of the government's bodies, should exercise control and control over the fight against corruption. So now you're giving duality to the Anti-Corruption Agency. We'll have a report from the Anti-Corruption Agency and a Council report. What, Minister, if those two reports don't match? What if they have different conclusions? What conclusions will be more important? The Council for the fight against corruption, which is the government's body, cannot oversee the fight against corruption that needs to be conducted and supervised by an independent body, which is the Agency established by law, therefore, founded by this parliament. Therefore, the executive authority should have much less interference, not much more interference, both in the judiciary and in the Anti-Corruption Agency. You're writing it in principle, but you're actually doing something else. We can't fight corruption if everyone in the state officials change. I'll remind you, not only are the officials changing, the government has changed, and somehow the President of the Supreme Cassation Court has changed. The government changed, so the president of the Supreme Council of the judiciary changed. The government changed, so the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency changed. The government changed, so the president of the Committee at the Anti-Corruption Agency changed. The government changed, and a law was passed at the first session that allowed customs directors and directors of tax administrations and various other public enterprises to change. Says Deputy Prime Minister on the show - if we take down Gilas, then what do we do? It takes 500 people to replace, and we don't have 500 people. There is no fight against corruption, if the state administration depends on political parties. So there's no fight against corruption if we don't have a good administration, and good administration involves responsible people in the administration. In order for someone to be responsible, they must be free, not set up five hundred, thousand or five hundred thousand people by a new political party in power. What does that mean? Tomorrow the government will change again, and the new government will change everything in the state. So that's not the way to systematically fight corruption. Do you know what integrity plans are? Do you know what sector plans are? Why is it not insisting in the Anti-Corruption Strategy on sectoral plans? Why is it not insisting that institutions must recognize and say what the risks to corruption are within the institutions themselves, what is it that problems are? Why not insist that procedures must be simplified, that a huge number of regulations be abolished, that simpler procedures be allowed, there are no discretionary powers, that the processes be more transparent. Without it, nothing can be done in the fight against corruption. Minister, do you know that the integrity plans that solve these matters have not been passed by the Constitutional Court in this country? Therefore, the Constitutional Court does not consider that it is necessary to adopt an integrity plan and that I am an overview of the possible risks to corruption. Why didn't the High Court Council do that? You're a member of the High Court Council. Why didn't the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic come up with a plan of integrity? Because, apparently, they're not interested in fighting corruption. What's the president of the Republic interested in? He's interested in pardoning a doctor who's been convicted of taking bribes. So, health corruption -- epilogue is parole. A group was pardoned, a famous group raped by a young man was all pardoned. Drug dealers have been pardoned. So these are the works that have been done in the last year and that's what's absolutely contrary to what you've written in the strategies. We are only left to hope that there will be something concrete in the action plan, so that we can participate in something and help, because I believe that fighting corruption and judicial reform is something that requires consensus for everyone in this country. But for these strategies that you have offered us today, we as a parliamentary group cannot vote because they do not solve any burning problems in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19740	Minister Selakovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19741	Thank you. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I know you're all waiting for us to take a break, but there will be breaks, so let me say something before that that represents a professional challenge to everyone and to do it now. In the past 15 minutes, you've had the opportunity to hear different unfounded grades, sometimes superficial, sometimes partial, and sometimes completely untrue. I would remind those who have such views to give me an example from a more recent Serbian parliamentary and political practice when there is a serious strategic, state-run act of serious, open, transparent public debate. A public debate that lasted almost five months, a public debate in which everyone could take part, a public debate that was held in several aspects and several ways from classical to modern methods, a public debate that resulted in a change in the initial draft and a new draft which was then set out as a proposal. It has been said by the adoption of these documents that nothing will change. You know, the mere adoption of any law doesn't have to change anything, but the application of some document, the application of some law, and it's professional, unbiased, but applying to everyone can do a lot. You know, put in one basket of two or three healthy and put the rest of the rotten apples and then brag about the ones standing on top. Yeah, it's true. Is it a good thing the Justice Academy was founded? Yes, it is. Is this the only institution of our judiciary that has been assessed by the relevant international institutions by the highest assessment and positive? Yes, but don't put me in the same basket with a good judicial academy, which we hope will become even better, with the concept of public notation which I am confident will live in Serbia and contribute to a more effective judiciary and more satisfied citizens, to give me a story about the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. I will take the opportunity to replicate later on everything that was said in the previous debate but you know someone to tell you – there is no action plan. You take a fine turn on your computer, and you go to the Justice and State Administration site, so look at when the first version of the Action Plan draft is put on that site, so read it whole, and if you don't get here, here's a whole draft of the action plan so you can look at it and read it. For me, it is a real pleasure to hear from people who have ideally sworn in the story of European integration that categorically, even without any delay, they are criticising something that has been brought into line in a long process with experts that the European Commission has just sent to the Republic of Serbia, to help develop these strategies and these action plans. She rated it as the highest grade. Those who say this is a list of good wishes. Is that possible? It can be done unless it's done, but the one who says so I'm convinced that there are no malicious ones, so I'm going to say as if everyone was speaking well on purpose, the one who says so is obviously not aware of what a strategy is, obviously does not know what a strategy should look like and what a strategy can write, and what it can't. One who does not know that the strategy is implemented on the basis of an action plan, that concrete measures are written in the action plan but that you must have some goals set before that. You know, it's like when you go to college and your goal is to become, like, a graduate lawyer. But until you reach that goal, you have to pass a minimum of four years of passing exams and a series of exams, and in order to pass some exams before that, you should also go to lectures, and take exercises, and do some background checks. Only when you get a grade on one exam to move on. You say there's no cost analysis. You're right. She's gone, and you know why. Because during that period you mentioned you have a whole series of judicial units, and even courts that haven't kept track of their finances. So someone who should bring justice to citizens through the protection and respect of their rights has not acted on his own. You say it doesn't matter if he writes a judicial unit or a court. No, it doesn't matter if you have one court, I won't mention either the basic, or the higher, I'll mention a misdemeanor court in a city in central Serbia. Of the thirteen judges of that court, twelve judges travel every day of the week. Every day he charges travel expenses or uses an official car. Every day he goes out on the field with him and a bookwriter. Is that normal? You have courts in Serbia in which all judges have been taking precautionary fees since 2010, so all judges, not one, not two. It's not the judge who's doing the investigation. It's everybody. Then the court president adds some imaginary function to it, he says – the co-ordinator of preparedness. Little does he get a fee as acting president of the court instead of taking the money and here. There's no analysis. Of course there's no analysis when the courts themselves took control of the same High Council of Justice that you cited. What kind of analysis should we give? Nigger? There's no analysis. Your Honor, Mr. MP, read the strategy's proposal well, and you will see that 30 pages of this proposal is an analysis of the current situation. And then be nice and say it. It doesn't matter if he writes a judicial unit or a court. Well, it doesn't matter. Because there's no trial in judicial units in criminal matter. It doesn't matter, because you have one city in Serbia where in 2007, the state invested serious money, opened a court, and two years later someone came to court and closed it. And in that judicial unit, he's tried once a week. But since it is a mountain space, as people there heat up eight months a year, and not as in Belgrade, then the ministry must pay the cost of maintaining the new building in order not to crack the installations. Let's just add that cost nothing else. You're saying the Council is being given the right to exercise control against corruption. I know you didn't read the draft strategy right away. Where does that say? The right to monitor the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy was given to the Anti-Corruption Agency. You sit down nice and read the law, and you read the strategy proposal, and then you answer the word, and then you criticize something. Not like this, so let's now let the citizens hear what it is in about 5%, and then 95% of what it isn't. The most dangerous thing is half-truth and can be manipulated very easily. You say the change of government has been marked by a major change in the number of officials. I'm sorry there aren't any lifers in Serbia, and it looks like you're sorry, too. That looks like a lot of pain, and it hurts especially when it's in accordance with the law. You know, when a person's mandate expires under the applicable laws or someone is elected against both the Constitution and the law, it hurts a lot, but something I don't see anyone relevant of those who oversee the work of our country, and we entered into one process like that, more than 10 years ago, that they rebelled against it a lot. No integrity plans, you're right, I'm sorry that the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic didn't have a plan of integrity three years ago or that he didn't have it a year ago, so we wouldn't be able to get into a situation where in three months of one calendar year, some general secretariat of a president of the Republic spent 82% of the budget for that financial year, and that's a big shame that there was no integrity plan, huge damage. You've forgotten what it's like to be in power. I know it's much nicer and easier to sit in opposition, especially when you don't have a shred of desire for constructiveity sometimes to, and sometimes not, help the progress of your society. You listed some of the good and positive moves that you and your party have made in the opposition. There are many in opposition to your actions that I would welcome. There are also those where you contributed to the quality of some law. Be correct, say, what you suggested, someone has thought about it and someone has accepted it. There's something I don't remember that happened when you were in power. You've been deaf and silent and not listening to what you're told, even when something was in the interest of the citizens. Once again, I haven't heard, do they have to be life-long officials? Where are they supposed to be? There's something I don't remember, 13 years ago, that anyone has remained in some public office, even when it comes to those state authorities and those bodies that have nothing to do with the change of legislative or executive authority. Weapons and guns were thrown out into the street. And now, you know, the people allegedly forgot it. He hasn't forgotten. Behave, in power every day, as if you'll be in opposition tomorrow, it's long ago said, it's almost 90 years old in Serbia. That's what people seem to forget. So, these proposals for strategies ahead of you, the plans of action plans that you can gain insight into our website, you take down a nice whole document, sit down and read it, are consistent with the most innovative European institutions, not just the EU institutions, but I say nicely to the European institutions at the level of the entire continent. When it comes to protecting human rights, when it comes to judicial independence, when it comes to many things here. You know, I'm not happy that we have the system we have. Every one of us who deals with politics bears our share of responsibility for it. I'm glad when you haven't seen anything in a year, and when some of you who are more than you are, they see more and say open to see more. I'm glad that in the screening process, we'll be able to see for ourselves what's done and what's not done. We are here as a society, as a state, and God is waiting for me and those who have contact with the judiciary to do a big, hard, hard job. I call you once again, when you answer the word, do not mention what is unknown to you, and is available to everyone. Ignorance doesn't commit, you go, I say again, on the site and read it. Thank God this is Parliament and I'm grateful, I like to come to parliament. I like to come to committees, but I hear something on committees, the first to be complained about by certain MPs, there were no representatives of the opposition. So, they weren't interested at the time, then they don't come to any committee, not on any other board, then they come here, very gladly, but once again I ask you honestly, tell you when this particular ministry came out in such a transparent way with the making of such an important strategic act at the state level? Not all strategies in the National Assembly are being adopted, unfortunately. It would be good to bring them more into the National Assembly. The commission is mentioned, so of course, so what do you think, is a strategy being adopted and nobody should worry about the implementation of that strategy. I am glad that in some parts, where possible, these strategies strengthen the role of the National Assembly. The National Assembly should play a much stronger role, where some ruling majority used the role of the National Assembly or of another state body in a previous period, in a diabolical way, we have parts of these strategies, namely one strategy, where the role of the National Assembly is reduced in the future, to reduce the political impact on something that is a state. Once again, if someone doesn't understand what the strategy is, let them get a little bit more informed about it. In the strategy, you specify the goals that you will pursue in the future, and through the action plan, through concrete measures and moves, indicate how you will reach these goals. Is the concept of the Justice Academy a good concept? Is he good enough? It's not. He needs to be perfected, he needs to be improved, and we'll work on it. Is the idea of introducing public records in Serbia good? Yes, but that idea does not relate to any establishment, to any government, to any ministry. The idea has been developed in Serbia, actively developed since 2001. Is the idea of private contractors good? Yeah, if she's not abused and we have to work hard on that. Is the idea of introducing VSS and DVT good? It may be, but it doesn't have to mean, we've seen it on our case, but don't tell me about it that it can't be a strategy to predict the change of the Constitution, if some previous strategy in key parts has been introduced into the Constitution. Completely flat and then back to the question, who wrote that previous strategy, and how and why did he introduce into our system something that never existed? The strategy does not foresee a change in the constitution, she says the issue will be analyticalally considered, not predicting a change in the Constitution, but saying, a subset will be established to identify whether a change in the constitution is necessary in order to achieve something on the strategic plan. I am seriously preparing for every debate here out of respect for this high house, for the citizens of Serbia who are watching and watching this. I'd like to see whoever's facing me crucially, and should stand up to the arguments, at least a tenth of my time to prepare, invest in your own preparation. When he says something here, he can totally stop behind it. Here's a draft of an action plan, and if you're interested, if you can't track it through the computer, here you go, you'll get it from me on a gift. Connecting the action plan to the Assembly's decision means tying your hands to the implementation of the strategy. The strategy provides a very good system for updating the action plan. In order not to get into the situation that we've been in so far, that some of the obligations can't be done, and I'm just asking you, it's said, there should be criteria for assessing the work of judges and prosecutors, so two and a half years of the government that you sat in, where your representatives sat in both the VSS and the DVT, those bodies didn't bring those documents, then you come forward and you say, that you should bring it, so you've been sitting there for two and a half years through your representatives, and that's not done. Is the process of bringing it in? Yes, it is. Are they now finishing up and having public debates? They're having a good time. Come on, have a little consideration when you're dating something and say it with argument and reason why something's wrong, why something's wrong. I am pleased to hear today that some who swear to the EU, Eurointegration, have the opposite opinion of the EU on these texts of the strategies and on the Action Plan. That's more about who thinks it than who graded it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19742	According to the Rules of Procedure, Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19743	Mr. President, I believe he's a injured member of 107. Rules of Procedure. Just esteeming the dignity of the National Assembly, because, apparently, a total untrue about the opposition's indiscretion on committees where the strategy has been discussed. We can read the stenogram, I pointed out here a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is at the same time as the minister spoke to the Justice Committee, so I couldn't multiply and be in two places at the same time. The fact is, because of such an appointment, we were unable to participate in the debate on amendments before the parent board. It is also a fact that I have taken part in the debate, on both the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, in an attempt to make certain concerns and certain things that are absolutely problematicly written by means of a correction, so as not to remain such a text, which is that certain definitions of this strategy require a change in the Constitution. So what now? The text itself says something requires a change of constitution, and then we shout that everything is in accordance with the Constitution. If it's in accordance with the Constitution, then there's no need to change the Constitution. In terms of other sentences in this section on the eighth page, I felt that the text of the National Strategy for Justice Reform should be corrected, just so that the promises made to the European partners regarding the discussion of this strategy would be completed or completed by the end of June.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19744	Time. I don't think there's been any breach of the Rules of Procedure, but, of course, all information concerning the work of the board is also available on the National Assembly website. If you were, I don't doubt your word. Minister Selakovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19745	I apologize personally to Mr. Mikovic if he found himself called in on this, but, may I say, I do not see you as an opposition. You're one of the few constructive people on that side who often knows how to give a good solution, who can point to a mistake. I know you were, but, of course, it didn't apply to you because, as I said, I respect your opinion and your attitude, so I'm sorry if you've found yourself called. Also colleague Batic, since I know she attended the Committee's session. When I came to the Committee meetings, I know that you were always there and always constructively and well involved. Therefore, accept my apology if you have found yourself called in that sentence of mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19746	Replica. Nenad Constantinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19747	It obviously took more than 20 minutes to respond to the remarks made on the strategy, and I think it is proof that there is nothing new in the strategy. So there is nothing in the strategy that we can believe that some change will be made for the better, not in the fight against corruption, not in the reform of the judiciary. The longer you explain, the more you admit it, and you said it yourself -- no analysis, no cost analysis. The strategy reads, "In view of the large number of returned judges and public prosecutors, who are integrated into the judicial system as well as the expected increase in the number of courts in relation to the current situation, it is necessary to analyse the current number of judicial employees." You don't know how many employees there are in the judiciary. When you don't know how many employees there are and you don't know how many judges there are, of course you can't do anything concrete. I urge you once again to discuss action plans that may be specifically written, which I doubt, we are discussing on the Justice Committee. And don't hide it from the Justice Committee. We can discuss on that committee together and see what concrete moves would be, to help you with that. Because it's obvious that for a year you haven't proposed a solution to the situation that thousands of judges and prosecutors have returned to the system and that you don't know what to do and how to integrate them. You have one sentence in this strategy – the priority is reintegration into the judicial system. How? No one knows how. So these are important questions that need to be answered, not telling stories, giving political speeches and talking about some principle issues. Your understanding and your perception of power obviously well evaluated and you answered that when a new government comes, it should change everything in the state. So you have to understand, when the government changes, the ministers, the state secretaries change, and the state administration has to be professional, responsible and free from political pressures, doing business in the interests of citizens. And you have to work in the interest of the citizens, don't think you're anything more than a civil servant.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19748	Thank you, Mr. Konstantinovic. Two minutes and 40 seconds. Replica, Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19749	I want to say something about that attitude of yours that you don't see me as an opposition, in the sense that I'm making constructive suggestions, which I would interpret as a compliment. But here I want to say clearly and loudly – me and my friends from my MP group DS, we represent a constructive opposition, opposition to everything that is wrong and we propose solutions to how to fix the general situation in the country, in the state, in legislative policy and everywhere. This is precisely why, referring to what you said, I am sorry that we were not in a position to discuss the text of national strategies together, both one and the other, and the proposed amendments and what is well written and what is not accurately written. The fact is, for example, that on page 18 of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy proposal – the existing legislative procedure does not have the obligation to look at the effects of corruption during the preparation of laws and other regulations. That's not true. The assembly adopted a Resolution on Legislative Policy, which envisions one of the objectives of reducing the risk of corruption, given the obligation to analyse the effects of regulations to be given under uniform methodological rules. There's a certain kind of commitment, and that's exactly what I wanted to discuss, but I haven't had a chance to discuss it on the board, so I'm going to have to discuss it here at the plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19750	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19751	More than 20 minutes of reply – yes, but not to remarks related to the strategy, but to mere and flat-rate political assessments. If you give political evaluations, I'm in charge of political evaluations. If you make a dissuasive remark, you will get an expert and reasoned answer. Once again, I invite you to sit down and read the proposal for a strategy from page one to page one, not to read just the first dozen pages, so you're still not interested in anything. If you don't understand how something is going to happen, then you're reading it all the way. If you don't even know what it's going to look like, then sit down and read the Action Plan, because you obviously deny what I told you, which is that two months of the Action Plan draft stands on the Ministry's website. You'll get it after me on a gift. Have a nice summer and read it. What the previous judiciary government has done in four years, not in a year, but in 44 years, it will not be able to remove any future power. We can lay good foundations on how something should be done, and once you say no analysis again, there are 30 pages of analysis within the strategy, and we are even resented that it is so big. She was much bigger, so we cut her down, but it was hard from news to a smaller extent the negative consequences of what was done. There's no cost analysis, but I promise you I'll do my best to regress them out of my pocket when there's an analysis of the costs of those who created them. It is those who, by their work and through the Justice Committee, who, both in their work and in the High Council of the judiciary and in the State Council of Prosecutors and in the Ministry of Justice, led this country to lose millions of euros in different ways. I will politically advocate and do my best to make sure that the same people who have contributed to such an action contribute to this, to this country that money and return it. Here, I solemnly promise you. You think about who's supposed to be doing this, because judges and prosecutors who are unexplained at work are suing the state. These same people get convictions. They'll come to the Ministry someday. The ministry will have to act according to court rulings and pay the money to people, but the ministry will also have to seek criminal proceedings against those who are the Ministry during the period when these disastrous moves have been withdrawn, so those who led the ministry at the time will have to respond and compensate for all the damage they have done to their unconscious political and selfish actions. Until this is done, there will be no guarantee that any future minister will take care of what he does and how he works.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19752	Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I'm setting a break. We continue work at 1550 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19753	The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19754	Today, when negotiations with the EU are launched, we are discussing two very important documents. Serbian citizens should feel changes when it comes to their rights. Their rights must be respected and guaranteed. Justice reform is the fundamental value and principle of every democratic society. Any state in which the rule of law is respected must have an independent and functional judiciary in which the main argument is a law rather than a bribe. To achieve this, these two documents were crucial and in my presentation, I will apostrophe Mr. File's statement coming this year to give direct support to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the first Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, saying that these two laws must go, as expressed hand in hand, and it is good that the ministry has accepted this thesis, because judicial reform without the fight against corruption and crime is a recipe for failure. As far as the justice reform strategy itself is concerned, it is very important for me that it removes the perceived shortcomings compared to the previous strategy, while at the same time its good sides have become an integral part of the new strategy. However, when it comes to the justice strategy, I think its primary goal is to improve the judicial system in general. In my opinion, it is also very important that a broader framework is created in this way to link the judicial reform process to the European integration process. However, I must say that, in my opinion, the first thing to do is to respond with this strategy to citizens' demands for respect for the rule of law and an independent, impartial and effective judicial system. I believe that the final effect of this strategy will be to strengthen citizens' confidence in the legal institutions of the state and their respect. However, I must also say that the new justice strategy also has two key challenges. In my opinion, the reintegration of judges and public prosecutors by the Constitutional Court's decision, and the second is the new network of courts that was proposed and has been withdrawn since a large number of amendments from local self-government came. I think the new network of courts needs very clear criteria, and I expect the action plan to make them very clear. In my opinion, this strategy sets out in a clear way and solves the remaining cases. I believe that its implementation will reduce the performances of our citizens before the European Court of Human Rights, and what I think must be put on a special accent is the unification of judicial practice. Why does it matter? Certain derogations in interpretation and application of the law may be tolerated as an integral part of each judicial system. However, it is inadmissible that in cases where there is an identical factual situation, entirely different judicial decisions are taken and the result of such an act, which must be eradicated is the state of legal uncertainty and the resulting lack of public confidence in the judiciary. I believe that this justice strategy is an undivided opinion of the public that changes to the Constitution must be carried out, but I would also like to praise this opportunity to express my absolute willingness to make the process of implementing the strategy as transparent as possible. According to this strategy, the competent commission has an obligation to submit a report to the government every three months, and a report is submitted to parliament every year. The National Assembly will consider the Commission's report and the report by the relevant Assembly committee, with a proposal for conclusions or recommendations, and decide on the proposal for conclusions, and one of the shortcomings in implementing the previous strategy was in the suspension of the ten-member strategy implementation committee. I think the previous commission had only one report that made up a major lack of transparency. As for the anti-corruption strategy, I think it is a continuation of the government's determination to deal with this major social problem. Serbia has created an environment in which citizens are no longer afraid, but that is why all those who have stolen for years are afraid. Serbian citizens finally know that no one is above the law. It is very important that, at the very beginning, this government has put the fight against corruption as a central element and, according to these issues, has shown zero tolerance. I think the determined fight against corruption and crime was necessary, in order to breathe air and move on to the opening of new perspectives in Serbia, but it was neither easy nor easy, but what is most important results are very visible. To fight corruption, it is important to create a system in which all institutions will function autonomously, but in which there will be synergies between those in charge of its prevention, but in which it will be sanctioned and not realised certain measures. I expect this strategy to provide very clear answers to the action plan. It means that we must have all the mechanisms for determining both political and legal responsibility and therefore I would like to say that the New Serbia parliamentary group will also support a strategy to fight corruption and crime and the judiciary strategy in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19755	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19756	Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what to say - a beautiful day today and the sun has warmed us up again and it's a great holiday Vidovdan, we've both got a date for the EU and for accession. What will certainly contribute to our celebration is that we have two really good texts in the congregation. We are discussing a strategy for judicial reform for 2013-2018, i.e. a strategy for combating corruption for the same period. These are two extremely important documents. First, I would refer to the strategy of judicial reform for this five-year period. I would remind all of you, as well as the citizens who are now watching us that in 2011, the European Commission has given one official opinion on Serbia's request for EU membership, where when it comes to the state of justice and the legal system in Serbia, the European Commission, therefore not the SNS, is not any political factor in Serbia, but in 2011 the European Commission explicitly said that the only thing that is right in the Serbian legal system is the legal framework. We must indeed acknowledge that at that time some good laws have been passed that regulate both the VSS and the State's major prosecutors, and certain changes of the CAP have been made. At that time, a law on the confiscation of property was passed from a criminal offence, which I believe was deeply supported by the citizens. Laws have also been passed that regulate the Judicial Academy. That was good, and in 2011, the European Commission estimated it to be a good part of Serbia's legal system and Serbian justice. But that same year, the European Commission officially stated in its reports that a poor re-election of judges and prosecutors was carried out in Serbia, that a bad network of courts had been created, that the capacities of the Serbian judiciary were very poorly measured versus the needs and quantities of cases that existed. It is against Serbia then in 2011 that only a partial reform of the procedural laws was carried out, I mean the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Code on Prosecution. By the European Commission, directly from Europe, it has been observed that it has been severely delayed in the adoption of sublegal acts. It has been noted that the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Chief Prosecutors are working non-transparently. In 2011, the European Commission resented Serbia for making laws very often without public debate, without transparency, without publishing who the members of the working group who wrote the laws were. One word, there was a lot of regrets. Therefore, we should congratulate the Ministry of Justice that in one such inherited situation, with debts and with all other problems accompanied by the Serbian Justice Department, Mr Selakovic and his team have today come up with an extremely high-quality strategy of judicial reform, a strategy that truly guarantees that we will be able to implement the necessary reforms and that in five years we have a judiciary that will indeed be based on principles that write in the strategy. The basic principles, the basic principle of the strategy, are the independence of the judicial system in the first place. It is very important for the citizens, because they will finally have the guarantee that judges judge neither by grandmother nor by uncles, but by law, without fear of any political influence, without fear that someone from the cabinet will call them a minister and say - judge them like this or judge them like this. From the principle, the principle of impartiality, together with the principle of quality of justice, is foreseen, which means that it goes together. The principle of expertise, which is very important, because now we will have very precise continuous training, continued learning of our judges and prosecutors in the first place through the Judicial Academy. Citizens should be understanding. Judges and prosecutors haven't studied mathematics. It would be good to, say, learn how to conduct financial investigations, and that's exactly what they're going to do through the Judicial Academy. The principle of accountability and the principle of efficiency, also as two particularly important principles, because we know that we have over three million old cases and we know that we have a major problem with the lack of responsibility of judges and prosecutors, which citizens in their letters to the National Assembly and the Committee of Justice very often point out. What do these principles mean? They mean that in the future after the adoption of this strategy, the judicial reform strategies will know exactly what the criteria are, it will be regulated through sublegal acts, that some judges and prosecutors are making progress or that they are going back or that they are being disciplined or even resolved, but all of this in a transparent procedure in front of the State's Grand Prosecutors, or the High Judicial Council, depending on what kind of judicial function we are talking about. Priorities of the justice reform strategy itself are the first priority of reintegration to the recently unelected judges and prosecutors. Just reintegration combined with the principle of responsibility will give us an answer to the question which judges and who prosecutors are doing well and which ones are not. Today, we heard in the debate of some of the Members of the People's Parliament a flat-rate assessment. He says -- there's not 1,000 and some judges, prosecutors and judges elected, and I'm going to say exactly, if I'm not mistaken, 1173 and they're all back in business, and there's these and those. There cannot be a collective responsibility that exists in Serbia, in the Serbian judiciary. If a judge, prosecutor or judge for crimes in the future does not do bad or it is proved that he has not done well in his time, only such, namely certain people should respond, not listen that everyone who is returned is not doing well, which is not true. Of the other priorities of the strategy, it is very important for our citizens and it is a priority that they will be dealt with at a higher rate of lagging objects. We have a truly devastating record, inherited from earlier times, that we have over three million unsolved cases, old cases, as we say to lawyers. There's a way to speed it up. We see through strategy, we also see through the activities of the Ministry of Justice that certain methods and through the responsibility of judges, but also through some changes in procedural laws, can affect that trials last shorter. I will give only one example, but announced by the Ministry of Justice, which is that the new Code of Criminal Procedure will abolish mandatory mediation in disputes against the state. It's been announced multiple times. We're hoping that's what's gonna happen, because it's gonna speed up every court case of this guy in at least four, five, six months, depending on the type of procedure. I'd also like to set aside the electronic justice system, which is a great thing. The Ministry of Justice recognises the need to improve the system of electronic trial, i.e. electronic access to the courts themselves and data on the cases being conducted. I believe it's very useful for citizens to be able to see through the web portals of every court when there's a trial, which is evidence, if any new document has been inserted into the procedure and anything like that. It's very good, and what we can say is precisely thanks to the current government's activities, some of the things in the strategy have already been implemented in action, although it is only now mentioned in the strategy. For example, one of these things is the publication of laws on the Internet. Soon, citizens will have full free, free access to all laws via the Internet portal "Official Messenger" or an adequate portal. It's the most normal thing. For years in Croatia, there has been an entire decade in Slovenia. We have excellent sites of "The People's Newspaper" or "The Official List of Slovenians", so why not have free access and a great website for our official messenger? It will contribute greatly to the quality of justice. This will help citizens spend less money on legal advice, that they can even write their own complaints and manage their own legal system. It is good that the justice reform strategies foresee the existence of a committee to implement the strategy. The commission will have 15 members from different bodies. All those bodies, more or less, will choose members themselves, for example, the Bar Association will elect its member by its own internal rules, public prosecutors by their own rules, various associations or scientific institutions according to their own rules. It will indeed be an independent commission made up of all people who are asking questions in the Serbian judiciary and the Serbian judicial system. In one word, there is no objection that this commission will be under any political influence. It's just gonna be impossible. For this, as well as for the so far mentioned reasons, but also hundreds of other reasons, of course, in the day for the SNS vote will support the judicial reform strategy. We will also support it because the Ministry of Justice organized, I no longer know how many round tables, public discussions on which we had the opportunity to hear comments before this strategy came today to debate. We have also heard comments from the Turkish associations, domestic and international associations, and from the Venice Commission. We have received practically pre-green light for this strategy from all relevant legal, professional, professional and other associations, whether they are domestic or foreign. That is just another reason why this strategy should be supported and why it will vote for the judicial reform strategy in the SNS vote day. As regards the anti-corruption strategy, the same period of 2013-2018, the same excellent document brought back in the same way, the same method. It is good that the Ministry of Justice has returned that old practice, forgotten over the past few years, which is that for every law, for every strategy, every document is organised by public debates, organised round tables, drawn documents put on the Internet, so that anyone who is interested can get to know each other, give their comments, suggestions and criticise. Why not? It is good, it is transparent and it is fully in line with European standards. The very strategy against corruption is written in the same way. All relevant domestic experts, factors, institutions and the Anti-Corruption Agency were practically involved in writing the strategy. We should not explain to our citizens how important this strategy is for the further fight against corruption. We also see ourselves that Europe congratulates us on the fight against corruption, congratulates us on our courage, first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, but of course Mr. Vukic needs them all by following the mechanisms and judicial and investigative and any other mechanisms and the MUP, all those institutions in order to implement the fight against corruption legally, according to European standards, and to congratulate us even to the end of Europe on this. This same Europe is a few years ago, it is again European data, it has been estimated that we lose at least 600m euros annually because of corruption only in the area of public procurement. These 600m euros I'm talking about right now are not some piece of information that the SNS invented or anyone else has invented. This is data from the EU, estimated and made, 600m euros due to corruption only in the area of public procurement, which is what Europe estimated to have stolen so much every year in some period, such as 2010, and part of 2012. The anti-corruption strategy is fighting just like this. It will save a lot in our budget, our citizens, whether we are talking about the area of corruption in public procurement or health or we are talking about another segment of social life that is perceived by the perception that corruption is great. The principles on which this strategy is based are primarily the principle of rule of law. And so far, we have seen that in the fight against corruption, led by the SNS, that the legal order is respected, that procedures are respected, that all defendants have the right to an attorney, that they all have the right to defend themselves. I guess it's so normal, it's so everywhere in the world, so it's in Europe. We have seen and learned from Europe, because we definitely couldn't learn from the predecessors. In addition to the principle of rule of law, there is a principle of zero tolerance for corruption. Citizens fully support it, citizens see it, citizens and all experts, both domestic and foreign. They fully agree to apply this one principle of zero tolerance, as well as the current government policy. The principle of responsibility, that's what the English would say, "name and shame." So whoever is lagging behind in the fight against corruption will be appointed publicly to know who has not adopted the integrity plan. They have certain deadlines. Of course, it should not now be a political issue. The integrity plans -- there are certain deadlines when they're being passed. We are sure that after the adoption of the appropriate law and the adoption of this strategy, those deadlines will respect you. The principle of comprehensiveness, the principle of efficiency and the principle of transparency are the three principles of the Anti-Corruption Strategy where we have received great support from our EU friends, the great support of experts provided by the European Union to help us work on this strategy. Of course, it is something that will also contribute to the fight against corruption continues with unlimited intensity. I have already said several times, I will repeat now and finally, of course, that the SNS will support these two strategies, especially after the amendments adopted by Mr. Minister, which will help make these strategies better. The strategies, like all strategies, are general documents, but it doesn't mind that through these general documents, through the plan, because the strategy is one kind of plan, so the citizens understand - that's the plan we're going to be doing in the next five years. It is good that we know exactly what these strategies also say in action plans, which will later be adopted, what they say, that we know what we will do in the next five years and in the area of justice, whether we are talking about a network of courts, notaries, whether we are talking about speeding up court proceedings, judges and prosecutors' responsibilities. It's good to know what we're going to do for the next five years when it comes to fighting corruption. In voting day, the SNS supports these two strategies. Congratulations to the Ministry on the excellent work that has been done. We hope that the strategies, both of them, will receive maximum support from other parliamentary groups. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19757	Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. We move on to the speaker list then. The first on the list is People's MP Olga Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19758	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm just going to get attached to this, since I was an authorized promoter. With regard to the open process of election of responsibilities and the termination of the judicial post, which is also regulated by the Strategy, you say in the fourth paragraph – criteria for selecting the President of the Courts should respect the professionality and moral character of the candidates, but also its organisational and management capabilities, the relationship with colleagues and judicial staff who have appeared in the work so far, either as a judge, or as president. That's good, because it's from that version that was in May, and I know what I've been doing all spring, because I've been following very well all those changes and additions to this strategy, but also to the Action Plan. It's a good thing you put the point here, because the next sentence was: the choice of the president of the courts should make it less politically subjective. Of course, if that was the rest, it would be inadmissible. Further, you say - monitoring, analysis, evaluation of the work of the judge and public prosecutors can be used to determine the optimal number of judges and courts, as well as their even burden, etc. This is where you oversee the extraordinary talent of charming the executive authority and the judiciary. As for proper access to information and court records and procedures, you ask yourself whether it is justified to publish the address of the participants in the procedure, etc.? You have the Personal Data Protection Act. So, without that data that would individualize a person, right? So, no JMBG, address and everything. After all, you have other relevant regulations and I don't know why you didn't put them into the Strategy, since in some institutes you are completely inappropriately dealing with an action plan, such as the opportunity or such as a plea agreement. We still have effective management of objects. That's where I said-- scanning the key file from the case. You didn't determine who was doing this key? Is that a judge, or is he an administrative worker, head of the office, one of the employees, etc? You say – effective use of resources in the judiciary and the prosecution. When it comes to the effective use of these same resources, the reform strategy in the criminal proceedings system has been envisaged, etc. You are told – The National Assembly adopted the technical changes and additions of the 2011 Laws. In anticipation of its full application in courts and public prosecutors, the general jurisdiction has been since October 2013. I think this is an impossible mission, that fifth part of it, because there's been a lot of talk since 2006 and unfortunately none of it's been done. It is almost certain that since autumn, the application of this Code will be delayed, because of the necessary assumptions, which is the doubling of the people at least when it comes to large centres, the provision of adequate equipment, while the security of the room almost did nothing, except that the public prosecutors began to train, so the knowledge they acquired is applied to others by training them. The figures from the other items are piling up, and add all those new items, so that's a new one, I'm talking about the technical system now, just impossible in these existing conditions, and it's going to lead to a complete collapse. Of course, one of the most important issues of the judicial system is precisely how it will ensure that the central figure, namely the judge or prosecutor, continues to act. In our judicial system that is completely changed and that is characterized by modern trends, because the only thing that matters now is that they are modern, there have always been a variety of novelties, but nothing has yet been seen or applied like the Justice Academy. I have already said that three constitutional initiatives have been put in place to examine the assessment of the constitutionality of Article 40(8). One of these constitutional initiatives has also been submitted by a natural person, otherwise he is a member of the SNS, which I must stress. The question arises – how does one such institution that has to deal first and foremost with education, which came from a judicial centre, which is designed to improve and which is intended to continuously educate all judicial employees, actually become a creation for whose existence is actually the issue of changing the Constitution as the highest legal act, etc.? Of course, the Judicial Academy was misspoken by the previous opposition, and I have to remind you, and she also filed a constitutional initiative. Therefore, the fact is that the number of its members has been uncontrollably increasing from year to year, I am still talking about the Judicial Academy, especially in that year when around 1,000 judges and public prosecutors were returned, which sends a signal to the public that the management of the Judicial Academy is taking care of itself and its jobs. The training hasn't started yet. A negative message is sent to the assistants who work here and put themselves in a humiliating position, you know? A little, 60% of the court or prosecutorial work falls on the burden of the judge's assistants. Imagine, isn't it humiliating that someone who has been a judge or prosecutor for ten years, he simply won't agree to come to him after so much experience and so much work, and he actually becomes an associate of some handsome judge or deputy prosecutor from the Academy. I am interested in areas covered by the Strategy, and now the quality of justice is listed again. You know how, justice or no justice. I don't know what quality you're talking about. I don't know that justice is measurable, that it's divisible, etc. If you think that quality justice is actually something that comes faster than some unquality justice, then you simply need to lead it under expertise, not under the quality of justice. Finally, selecting through the Judicial Academy will lead to this fact that in one three years' time, and with everything spent one six months, watching only the work of the judges and only the work of their assistants in the body in which they will be elected, they will actually share justice. I wonder – did you mean that principle of quality of justice? (Chairman: Please finish your thought.) I'll finish. I can talk a lot since I have read carefully about both strategic goals and guidelines. The action plan has been read and I think there's a lot of things that need to be marked instead of dots, deadlines are too ambitious, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19759	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19760	Dear Vice President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin on this occasion, or from this position Mr Cvian spoke of. I agree this is an important day. I wouldn't pay too much attention to whether it's a good time or not. Those negotiations might start in January, but there's little chance that it'll be a good time, so... (President: Please do not address the MP. That's not allowed. No, I'm begging you. You know as well as I do that the Rules of Procedure are not allowed to address the MP directly. ) I thought, Mr Arsenović, that this positive atmosphere that was created today would be used for a new beginning, but if you insist I will return strictly to the frameworks of the Rules of Procedure. Don't just complain about me being so hard on the ruling coalition. What are dilemmas, or what are the objections of the LDP parliamentary groups on these documents? My colleague, Judita Popovic, spoke a lot about it in the morning part of the session. I will try as in yesterday's debate to show where the weaknesses of these texts, these strategies, are, above all, the Anti-Corruption Strategy at the study are several cases. I think it is very important and I think it is most effective right now when we are showing ambition to be a country that will open, negotiate and close chapters in EU membership negotiations. I agree that it won't be enough anymore, and I don't think today is enough in principle for a nice, positively intrinsic document that doesn't come true in practice. He's also right, Mr. Cvian. He has, however, this specific situation to defend documents adopted in 2009. He was in a different political position at the time, then objecting to the fact that they remained a dead letter on paper. I'm afraid these documents will also remain a dead letter on paper for a significant part and I'll try to prove it. I think that many of these things that were brought here into the proposal of a national anti-corruption strategy in the Republic of Serbia and which the government adopted and directed to parliament on 20 June, so eight days ago, that already in the meantime and after the government or the ruling coalition has shown by its behaviour that it does not consider them serious, that it does not want to apply them and that it experiences them less, more as a kind of formal obligation both in front of this Parliament and in the process of European integration. I welcome the way this strategy has been structured and I must say that this has helped me greatly in this analysis that I would now be talking about. First of all, the part that speaks about the area of strategy where it is divided into those areas of public life, the use of public resources, the management of property, political powers, possible abuse of political power, where I agree, the greatest risk of corruption as commonly spoken in this strategy. Mr Selakovic, my arguments will be, I saw that at one point this morning you separated whether you were responding politically to political arguments, professionally, mostly politically, I expect you to answer me that way. I'll make a special note when I have some sort of professional objection. So, the first part that talks about political activities where you talk about the description of the situation you say -- in this document, it is one of the key sources of corruption or the risk that there is, that mass corruption is due to the way the director is set up and resolved, as well as how public enterprises are managed at all levels of government. In time, a suitable ground was created to influence the interests of political entities on their work. I couldn't agree more, it was an argument or a blade of an LDP attack, and in relation to the behaviour of the authorities, or past governments, all the time while the LDP has been in parliament, it means the last six years. Then you say -- the new Law on Public Enterprises has reduced certain risks of corruption. I also agree. I have to note that a significant part of these improvements has been introduced into the law on the initiative, i.e. by the amendments of the LDP parliamentary group. One of the elements that we have introduced as a guarantee in the law, Mr Selakovic, is the obligation to open competitions by 30 June 2013 for the selection of directors of all enterprises to which the Law on Public Enterprises applies. It's about 700 companies in Serbia. Will the Serbian Government, or the authorities in charge of such a thing by June 30th, call for competitions for all these companies in two days, or, as this Parliament informed the Energy Minister yesterday, will act on the illegal interpretation that came from the Government's Legislative Secretariat and which says that the obligation to call competitions is limited exclusively to those enterprises, public enterprises, in which the directors perform their duties? It's a huge test for this government. Will you be prepared to choose 700 directors in a public competition or will you keep those chosen by political criteria in those positions? I'm not saying they were chosen by the criteria. That's what you say to Mr. Selakovic in this strategy, and you say that because of this way of installing and disposing the director, a suitable ground has been created for affecting the interests of political entities on their work. You know that there are public and state-owned enterprises, Mr Selakovic, in which your government's decisions are appointed directors who are high-ranking officials of political parties, deputy presidents of political parties, such as the case in PTT "Serb Transport", the Serbian Railway Company, in dozens of local companies, etc. You continue to say that even under the new law no clear criteria have been established on the basis of which the competent ministry proposes to the candidate commission and on the basis of which the commission is finalising the selection of candidates. I couldn't agree more, Mr. Selakovic. The LDP parliamentary group spoke of it for three days. We had a series of amendments to the Law on Public Enterprises that predicted much closer and stricter criteria. Your ruling coalition, your government where you sit as a minister has rejected these amendments and they have not entered the law. The law was passed in December of last year. How is it possible that in December you were not aware of what you were putting into the strategy five or six months later? So what's the guarantee that these excellent formulations, recommendations, the goals you set here will be respected this time? So it is very clear that your answer will be whether competitions will be called, whether they will be elected directors by political function. In fact, it will answer the question of how serious this strategy is. It is no accident that the subject of the selection of directors of public enterprises and how public enterprises are managed is central, in fact, to this strategy, at the very beginning. It's one of the key problems. That's no wonder, these are companies that go through billions of euros in public funds. These are companies that have accumulated losses of several billion euros. These are finally enterprises through which political influence is purchased in the most direct way. There are some significantly weaker parts of this strategy that talk about intertwining, in fact some kind of trade in political influence that is carried out through the relations of public and state-owned enterprises, the political power that stands in them or is behind them and the media, that is, at the very end of this strategy. There's also a test that will show how ready you are to respect this. So far you haven't. The Law on Public Enterprises also prohibits advertising on the commercial basis of public undertakings or state-owned enterprises having a monopoly position on the domestic market. Such companies continue to be advertised. I do not know that the Government or the managing authorities in these companies can in any way control these processes have undertaken certain actions or legal procedures or at least actions that would prevent such practice from being done in the future. I don't think I have to point out much of such examples to sports clubs that in their names bear the names of such companies, the fact that they are mass advertising through such sponsorships by a company called Belgrade Airport, which is a real monopoly on the domestic market since Constantin Airport in Nis is no competition. The company "The Ways of Serbia" is being announced. That's what I was talking about here yesterday. That this company is not advertised, although there is no commercial reason to advertise then perhaps from July 1st it would not have collected a toll by 20%, or for the amount of VAT now added to the accounts or to that amount which has been charged for years as a toll amount. We may not have problems with very undefined situations when it is unclear what money comes directly from the budget, and what is money that comes indirectly through public and state-owned enterprises. In economic terms or for the citizens of Serbia, it is absolutely whatever. It's all public money, whatever account he's going through. We live in this part of Europe, which I am sure we will agree on at some point, sooner or later, formal conditions for EU membership, but change of consciousness and mentality, Mr Selakovic, is a much longer process. There are those who talk about six and 60 years, let's say, like the framework that it takes. Here's an example from Croatia. A few days ago, a debate was opened in Croatian media on how much it costs to mark Croatia's entry into full membership. Then at one point, an explanation came from the government that a significant part of these funds was not actually the cost of the budget, but came through the assistance or sponsorship of public and state-owned enterprises. So, these habits are very slow and we and some other countries, although, for example, they are now or within a few days becoming formal EU members. The second large area you are talking about, Mr Selakovic, was partly talked about by Mr Cvian, is the area of public finance, income planning, expenditure planning, etc., and parallel to this period that exists for public debate, for getting to know the public with drafts and bill proposals, etc. There is no doubt that the budget is the most important law to be adopted in one year and that the budget is absolutely the most important law on the issue of the use of public income, i.e. the use of public funds. You, Mr Selakovic, wrote on June 20th this year that the public is not fully and in an understandable way familiar with the planning and spending processes of budget funds. Budget laws for each financial year are mostly passed within a short period of time, while the debate in the National Assembly on how public funds were spent in a given year has been lagging behind for ten years. On June 20th, you voted for something like this, and then four days later at the cabinet session and you and all your fellow ministers voted for the adoption of budget rebalancing, sent him to the Assembly and requested an appointment of the National Assembly session for the next Monday. Wait, when you were serious, when you saw this as inadmissible and you promised in the later part of the document that it would no longer be a practice, or four days later when you decided to do the same thing that most of the governments in this country have done in the past 10 years? You have to decide. Budget is not a small thing and budget rebalance is not a small thing. The budget rebalancing is about, as your government says, saving on the discretionary costs of 36 billion euros. Then my question is -- how total discretionary costs are, if possible, 36 billion euros in savings? What is the discretionary cost of the space for the abuse of funds, for corruption, for the violation of all those objectives, that is, the principles you set out in this text, Mr Selakovic? The predictability of tax revenues, or the level of taxes, and the type of tax is also important, this principle also violates your government. You change tax rates quickly, you adapt them. Today, it seems to me, some criminal group has been arrested who smuggled a cut-up tobacco. The growth of trade, i.e. smuggling with a cut-off tobacco, is a direct consequence of the fact that you have changed excise policy in a bad way and have pushed a whole part of the market into illicit trade, i.e. smuggling, i.e. grey and black economy. That's why there's such a big difference between the paper you're proposing and the goals you're proposing and what you're really doing in real life. There are some missing parts, Mr. Selakovic, in this strategy. There's a section dealing with health care, health care, the Republic Health Insurance Fund, but there's one fund missing that's two and a half times bigger, Mr. Selakovic, than that. It's the PIO Fund. That's, say, the part where you could set much clearer goals or offer us how we're going to fight the potential risks of corruption in that system that's untransparent, where management is unclear, where governance is politically, where there's no talking about introducing, let's say, into the funds of professional management. In doing so, I don't know how much savings there will be, as Mr. Cvian says, from the Public Procurement Act, since the law began to apply this year in early April, Mr. Cvian. You were talking about 600m euros in savings, and you say today there will be a lot of savings in the budget. I don't see the rebalancing of that money being included. I see we're missing nearly 100 billion dinars in our budget. So 800 million euros, let's say. You're going to rebalancing, you don't hope that money will be compensated by this brilliant Public Procurement Act that he will save in this year, because he won't save up so much and that's not even possible in these circumstances when the country, when the decision-making process in public procurement procedures is burdened by all these problems. When we proposed that a member of the Commission to elect a director or to rank candidates for the director of public enterprises be someone who comes on a proposal from the Assembly Committee, we didn't even assume, even we who know what country we live in, that it would be someone who works in the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister. (Chairman: Mr. Gjuric, your time is up.) ) You know what, it's not really a point or it wasn't an idea when we asked for parliamentary control of the whole process. Very little text on education and very little text on other things, but for starters I expect answers to some of these questions I have asked you, Mr Selakovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19761	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19762	Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, shortly before when I was presenting certain information, for example. that the estimate that 600m euros per year is lost due to corruption in public procurement, I presented EU data. So it's not data, it's not data, it's not data, it's not data, it's not data from anyone, it's not from the EU. I listened to the speaker before me and really had a few good comments and should always listen when someone makes good suggestions. But I don't understand why these suggestions are being made now. I have already mentioned that the Ministry of Justice has organised at least five round tables that concern only anti-corruption strategies. I personally attended four round tables, an international table, where both guests from the EU and local professional public and university professors were. So we have organized at least four, and if not five round tables concerning the justice reform strategy. I've never seen MPs from opposition parties anywhere on those round tables. They could then make their comments, not today, to spend the time it costs and the citizens of this country. In the end, one more thing. Maybe someone didn't understand what I was saying. We need to keep an eye on the citizens, and we need to know that these two strategies do not require any additional funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget. These strategies will not only improve the situation in our judiciary, not only improve the fight against corruption, but will not cost us any special money from the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19763	Thank you. Mr. Guric, I don't see the basis of your replica. (Bojan Djuric, from the post: Commented on my allegations wrong. ) He did not comment on you at all, he merely cited where the sources were taken when talking about spending funds on public procurement. That's all he said. He even made a positive comment about you and your exposure. You have no basis for replication. (Bojan Đuric, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Take care, when I give you my word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure, that you do not abuse it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19764	I won't mention the PIO fund once, don't worry. Mr. Cvian, I think you've hurt Article 27. So I didn't say that the proposals are coming now, or that these are proposals on this strategy. I made it clear to you when we proposed the amendments exactly, which is the only way in the Assembly to change the text of the law when the Law on Public Enterprises was discussed. That's when we could have changed it. All this other stuff is about this text that doesn't have much to do with the remarks that I've been talking about, here's 32 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19765	No injured Rules of Procedure. You've even misquoted a member, but it doesn't matter. I don't think he's hurt his Rules of Procedure, and if you think he is, we can plead to the voter's Day. Are you asking us to come forward in the Rules of Procedure's injury vote? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19766	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Serbia must be a fair society, a society of equal odds. Serbia cannot be such a society if it does not stand in the way of corruption and if our judiciary is inefficient, slow and inaccessible. So these two strategies that are now ahead of us are very important. I'll talk more about the anti-corruption strategy. What does corruption mean? This means that individuals are getting richer, and citizens are getting poorer. If we have corruption, then we have no investment, no economic, social and democratic development of Serbia. Corruption is in some way economically exhausting and morally humiliating citizens. There is no new employment, because when an investor decides whether to invest in Serbia, open a factory and hire people, corruption is a major obstacle. In the fight against corruption, certain shifts were made in the previous period, but insufficient. This is what the European Commission's reports, the Council of Europe, the State Department, the UNDP tell us. This government has taken great steps in the fight against corruption. She showed that there were no untouchables, she showed determination in the fight against corruption. A number of laws have been adopted that prevent corruption, such as the Law on Public Enterprises and the Law on Public Procurement. Of course, the problem of corruption must be dealt with systematically, and this strategy that is ahead of us today is just the first step towards that path. When we talk about corruption in Serbia, it is clear to everyone that there is corruption in Serbia, before that we must not close our eyes and it is clear that there is enough space for corruption. We have it in the area of public finances, where there is not enough transparency in spending public funds. Until the adoption of the Public Procurement Act, we had intransparency in the area of public procurement of a lot of discretionary powers. I would particularly stress here that a little talk is made about the purpose, i.e. the justification of the calling of public procurement or the spending of budgets. It happened to us in the previous period that some streets were paved three times, that they were e.g. in some infirmarys equipped with modern furniture, while the village infirmarys were sneezing. Also, it happened, for example. that municipalities in Vojvodina were politically forced to cover the cost of the Capital Investment Fund from their budgets. Of course, all of this was legally covered by congregation decisions on local budgets. There is also a space for corruption in health care, through public procurement, supplemental work of doctors, waiting lists. In particular, I would also refer to the independent incomes that health institutions have and how they are used. I'm going to set an example of the Covin House of Health who doesn't have so little of his own income and who used them, again, of the justification to say something, for hiring nonmedical personnel, while some villages in our municipality don't have doctors at all. When it comes to education, we can say that the area for corruption is the authority of the discretionary director that he can hire certain staff, organise excursions, and also public procurement. In the media, the big problem is non-transparent property, unclear criteria for granting state aid. When it comes to spatial planning and construction, we are all witnessing that a large number of permits and various consents are needed to begin some construction at all. Of course, it all leads to no investment. When serious investors face this problem and, of course, they have to pay someone to get to it all, they simply flee Serbia, and our citizens remain unemployed at the labour bureaus. In all areas there is this area of corruption and in the strategy they are good and numbered. There's also customs, and police, and the judiciary, the need for tax administration reform and strong financial discipline. All that I've been saying imposes the need for a systematic and comprehensive solution to the problem of corruption. In order to solve this burning problem of our society, it must operate in three directions, it is prevention, education and repression. Good recommendations and objectives are given in the strategy, especially when it comes to prevention and education. As for prevention, we must pass laws that will prevent corruption. Of course, when laws are passed, an analysis must be made of whether there is a risk of corruption in that law and whether such risks are immediately removed. Transparency is needed in the work of all authorities, then extending and determining the authority of the Anti-Corruption Agency, the DRI, the Citizens' Protector and the Information Commissioner. Such institutions must be respected in our society and respected. Effective protection of alarmers, or persons reporting corruption, must be established. We, in some ways, must motivate our citizens not to remain silent in front of corruption, but to report it. As far as education is concerned, we must have trained professionals who are employed in independent institutions, trained individuals in local self-government, NGOs, health care and education, but also trained citizens who, once again, will not close their eyes to corruption, but will report it. Of course, anyone who has achieved his personal benefit, using his position and has become rich, must be processed and adequately punished. All assets acquired in an illegal manner must be seized. There can't be any protected here. No one has the right to get richer in the money of all citizens, while they are pooring more and more. Of course, there is always a question of implementation of the strategy. We know that many strategies have been adopted in Serbia, but have not been implemented. This strategy must not remain a dead letter on paper. It must be realized, and not only at the state level, but at all levels of government. All levels of government, both the AP Vojvodina and local self-government, must have their own action plans that they will respect with dignity. Most importantly, the results must be visible, both at the state level and at the local level. This National Assembly must have the obligation to discuss the implementation of the strategy at a special session, to make it clear who did and who did not carry out what was needed, and to review the work of responsible persons. That obligation, of course, must be the assembly of the AP Vojvodina, as well as all local congregations. The united regions of Serbia will always provide strong support for a consistent application of the anti-corruption strategy. Our imperative is a fair society, a society of equal opportunities, a society where all regions in Serbia will develop equally. A society with zero tolerance for corruption, financial discipline, haughtiness, irrational spending and business. And according to reports, Serbia spends about 600m euros per year only through irregular public procurement. We are witnessing over the past period how much money is damaged Serbia's budget, how much money has damaged the budgets of local self-government. We all know how much state money, or money, all the citizens needed to get rid of the theft in Agrobank and Vojvodina Development Bank. Believe me, as an ordinary citizen, people say, my soul is in pain because of such spent money. We all have to wonder what this money could have done, how many roads, how many infrastructures could have been done, industrial zones, how many schools, how many kindergartens? How many investors left Serbia because they realized they had to pay individuals for permits and consent? And they could open factories here and hire our people. We can't let that happen anymore. In voter day, the URS MPs will support both of these strategies. I would add that today is an important day, because today we have a date for starting negotiations with the EU. For the URS, there is no dilemma that Serbia deserves to start negotiations, but this credit belongs primarily to citizens of Serbia who patiently and despite great trials supported Serbia's European path. During the negotiations, the fight against corruption and judicial reform will be an important topic. But we with corruption must fight not only for Europe but for ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19767	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19768	Dear Chairman, I am sorry that Mr. Minister has come out and that there are so few of us in the O.R. and we are talking about important issues relating to the construction of a serious and strong state and that we need to be guaranteed in some perspective, through the implementation of these two strategies, and the legal security and security of our citizens and more justice and justice and less corruption. I will try to make one retrospective of the fight against corruption in Serbia and what seemed to change in Serbia so far in the fight against corruption. When the first coalition government with President Kostunica was elected in 2004, we found one captive state, a state bound by corruption and links to organised crime by various civil servants. Serbia was then ranked 106th in transparency, "Transparency International", an organisation dealing with the evaluation and assessment of the state of affairs in the countries in terms of corruption, and that was one of the worst places in the region at the time, at the level of Lesota and other African states. We, as the then government, have been extremely serious and responsible for joining the fight against corruption, not only campaign, but systematically, planically and co-ordinatedly. It was the only way a country could cope with corruption. In 2005, the Anti-Corruption Strategy was adopted, the first ever adopted, and in 2006 the Action Plan. This strategy rests and continues, as the very explanation stands, and the strategy and the action plan, and we expect at least so much, if not to a greater extent, this existing strategy to be realised. In the area of public procurement, it was then the first time that a serious approach was made, through the adoption of the Public Procurement Act, by the establishment of the Public Procurement Administration and by the Commission for the Protection of the Rights of the Providers. It's just that we're going to build institutions that guarantee a reduction in corruption, fairness in public procurement and all that will come later and what I'm going to talk about is an indication that you can go back and forth when it comes to fighting corruption. The criminal police have been reorganized. A legal and organisational framework was created to fight corruption. A new Criminal Code has been adopted and Serbia was in the 79th place of the "Transparency International" list of countries at the rate of corruption and was one of the best-ranked countries in the region, except Slovenia. This is an indication that in a short time, much can be done in the fight against corruption if it is approached organised, systematically and plannedly. Justice Minister Stojkovic, who proposed these strategies and Minister Jocic, as minister of police, worked hard and did much to curb corruption and crime in Serbia. A strong fight against corruption and organised crime was seen, above all, in various areas of the state organisation. So, are these public enterprises, the judiciary, the judiciary or the administration, wherever there was corruption, we tried to cut it down and deal with it. I'm just gonna mention some cases of organized groups breaking the law. It was in "Serbian Ways", where they "stealed" on payment ramps, where a good number of people were arrested and where a new system occurred, in order to reduce the theft on payment ramps. I'm talking about the arrest of the president, and now a few months ago and convicted, the President of the Major Trade Court with his associates, the other judges, where there has been a series of abuses in bankruptcy proceedings and in general when working in the Trade Court. 55 employees were arrested in Customs because they engaged in crime and irregular services when customsing goods and illegally crossing goods across the border. We also have in the area of oil, tobacco smuggling, already mentioned that the end of an investigation involving tobacco smuggling and participants from a state apparatus in tobacco smuggling has been brought to an end. I would just like to mention the education, more specifically the Kragujevac University case and the abuse of exams, where a good number and professor from the Kragujevac University have been indicted and arrested for setting up and selling exams, which has been defused and extended to Kragujevac, especially at the Faculty of Law. In this way, we made our contribution, and that government of Vojislav Kostunica has made order and seductive order in the institutions with which citizens have the most contact, and these are state administrations, education and ministries through which the state operates with citizens. Unfortunately, we have to realise that the proceedings against the indictees in Kragujevac are not yet completed, that some have been returned and that the deans are in college, that because of the closeness with the representatives of the last government, certain procedures are allowed to become obsolete and thus fully depreciated and devalue the fight against corruption. We believe that this is not good, and we expect this government to show in part zero tolerance for corruption and that through this justice strategy, we will come to justice that, without political influence, in law justice, in the letter of law, will judge and judge and finally give justice and justice to citizens in Serbia. That a significant contribution from the government was made to the interior ministry's field, it is also seen that the personnel that were then placed at the head of the Ministry of the Interior and who were then promoted today represent those who are carrying out the fight against corruption, who are running working groups that are currently operating within the Justice Ministry and who are currently dealing with the 24 privatisations that are being checked. It's just saying that at the time it was done extremely responsibly, well and that the people who were appointed were able to implement and reform in the Ministry of Police themselves and to continue to work. We also believe that prevention in the fight against corruption is very important and that lately very little importance has been given to it, that we have gone only to repressive measures, and that it should primarily take care of prevention and work on all segments of the local community and, of course, to the ministries and the state summit itself, to prevent any form of corruption and to come to that level that is present in other countries, what I say, in countries of modern or well-organised states with one clear rule of law. What is also mentioned, and I will quote the Transparency of Serbia report, that Serbia has been in the post for six years in the 2012 report. Serbia has not improved its score in the corruption perception index for the sixth year in a row, Transparency International said. Thus, in the last year, we have been overtaken, or reached by Bosnia and Herzegovina, Liberia, Sri Lanka, Bulgaria Trinidad and Tobago. And after a long time ahead of us are all the former republics of the SFRY and all the Balkan countries except Albania and Moldova. So this is the state of Serbia that you found as a government, which happened after the DS came to power after the government of Vojislav Kostunica. That's what's happened to us, and it's a pat in the place all these years. What does that mean exactly? This specifically means that nothing was done at the time in the fight against corruption, that it was not a legal state, that there was no public service in the work of the state authorities, that there were a lot of State interventions in the work of the judiciary, police and businesses and that the state in no way, or its institutions and bodies, could function. What is a priority for Transparency of Serbia, and what you have included in your strategy, which is to ensure greater public service in the work of the state authorities, reducing the regulatory and financial interventions of the state, which is very good, public procurement reform is done in a way that actually results in cuts and savings. We've passed a new law, and we really expect there to be savings, but we need to prevent any possibility, abuse of existing systems and exceptions that appear everywhere. The roles of independent bodies should be strengthened. We are talking about the Ombudsman, the state auditor, the Citizens' Protector, the Information Commissioner and the Anti-Corruption Agency. These are regulators, controllers of preserving the functions of the state in a way that they are in the role of citizens, not individuals, businessmen or certain criminal groups, and that is why it is important that we as a state strengthen independent regulatory bodies so that we can ensure the functioning of the state. It is also important to have the public media ownership and to provide or disable, which is the government's task, the ban on advertising sponsorship, the public sector monopolies. That's not the case, we see, "Serbiagas" is a sponsor of a series of clubs, events, "Nikola Tesla" Airport, which is mentioned by a colleague before me, we have PTT, these are situations where we as a state are not able to do for party reasons to conduct depolitisation and departisation and fight corruption until the end. We have to build and you've talked about it through this strategy, an independent, efficient and responsible judiciary. It's really hard to build a house on the ruins and build an independent judiciary, responsibly and efficiently, and we expect to help you build that judiciary, too. I am pleased that during today's debate on the justice strategy, you have spoken everything we have spoken this year, from having been illegally elected by Nata Mesarovic, to the very process of electing judges, to the follow-up, 600 judges who have not been re-elected, to all those amendments to the laws necessary to ensure an independent judiciary. It is something that encourages us to finally start thinking in Serbia, to build a country that will last and will be the basis and pillar of building a modern and legal state. Control of property of public officials and officials is also important, the accuracy of the report, and that is all that is very important in the fight against corruption and strengthening itself of the Anti-Corruption Agency, primarily professional staff in the area of finance, financial control, so that the Anti-Corruption Agency could be an adequate institution to help the state officials themselves in the right and proper way, to report their assets and to prevent them from carrying out in two or three jobs or to obtain property in addition to their regular work in some illegal ways. What is also very important to say is that this strategy, I expect to take effect on this strategy, and that means by adopting and publishing it itself, you implement it and dissolve the directors who are politically elected. That's what's in this strategy and what's in the Law on Public Enterprises. Mr. Krkobic, he is gone, and if he is both an MP and a director, I expect that by the end of next week, when this strategy is adopted, too, to resign, so that the ruling coalition will show by personal example that it wants to fight corruption and that it wants to implement a strategy against corruption in the work. Where do you get a better example than that? I don't see him, and I hope you agree with that, and that all those directors who have been elected on the political line, as politicians, come here. I have nothing against the director of Telecom who is a man of expertise, and who is expert as director and staff, and from Telecom himself, elected director of Telecom. If we also have a director of the "Serbiagas" who is the vice president of the party, the MP and director of one company, and you simply need to see which of these functions will be performed. We expect that, at the most recent time, we see this strategy, that it is implemented, that it is implemented, and that in the same way, as you call for the responsibility of those who have done what they have done in the judiciary in the previous four years, you must simply be aware that you are also responsible for implementing this strategy and that tomorrow you should say, Mr. Krkobic, decide whether you are a director, an MP or something third, or a pensioner. Mr. Bajatovic, whether from that MP or director, and that is something we expect from you, and that is the first test for the ruling coalition, and do not hide behind the interpretation of the Secretariat of the legislation, because the only one empowered to interpret the law is the Assembly Committee on Constitutional Affairs. If someone needs to give an interpretation of the law whether directors who are not in V.D. the status, which has been appointed two minutes before the entry into force of the Law on Public Enterprises, can remain directors until the end of the term of office, is not the responsibility of the Committee for Law, the Secretariat of the Government, but is responsible for the Committee for Constitutional Affairs. If the government has some concerns, it should ask the Assembly, how should we treat the directors who are politically appointed and then the ruling majority say they should be directors by the end of the term of office and then a public competition is called afterwards. We'll say, thank you very much, it's your decision, but then that part of the anti-corruption strategy we have to put in an ad act and it's not respected and that's your responsibility. Also, by establishing, according to the strategy, a system to prevent conflicts of interest of public sector employees, and in the press, we could see that the director of the "Road of Serbia" is a Drobnjak and shareholder of a road company that receives jobs from the "Road of Serbia". Where will you greater conflict of interest than that? I also expect to step into force and this strategy, you can simply see how this problem will be solved, because it is present in the public and we will talk more about it at the next session, when it comes to turning debts, Serbia's roads into public debt, but it is also a matter of this strategy. We believe that this strategy is a good continuation of the fight against corruption that you started and that is one of the things that we absolutely agree on. You have our full support, it's a fight against corruption and zero tolerance in corruption is something, in the fight against corruption at this stage is something that should be a priority, that all of us support those who and in this strategy are competent under the law to fight corruption. We expect you to make a full contribution and to show, in the zero tolerance of the fight against corruption on the examples mentioned here in the Assembly, by the very power of this strategy, that there really is zero tolerance. You have our support. We believe this strategy is a good basis for fighting corruption. We expect that all the activities adopted by the action plan, whose proposal we have already been able to see, to adopt an action plan that will speed up the implementation of all the activities mentioned in this strategy and to speed up the anti-corruption and corruption prevention process and to reduce it to the extent that exists in modern European countries. As DSS, we welcome the continuation of the fight against corruption where it stalled in 2007, and expect it to be extremely responsible, seriously, as you have tried so far to approach and continue the fight against corruption and the example in this Assembly, most transparently show that the fight against corruption has zero tolerance and then you will be more supportive of us in this segment and expect that when we see ourselves next time, Mr Minister, we will be able to talk about some of the next steps and not mention what we expect you to do or insist on doing, the next week when this strategy comes into effect and when individuals sitting in this assembly are in conflict and their function is in conflict with the solutions provided for in this strategy. We expect that the next time you come here, we can talk about some new things, other things, and not go back to what will only discredit this strategy and the work you're working so hard on and which is extremely important for building a legal, responsible state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19769	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19770	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Ministers, I will not repeat myself in relation to what I said as an authorised representative of the SPS in the afternoon of today's debate on the national strategy and reform of Serbia's judiciary. However, something has to be noticed, which is that this debate is right at the moment, and it is one coincidence that I think is very positive, just as Serbia is getting the starting date for negotiations with the EU, to join the EU. Why coincidence? Because this strategy is in the role of implementing the world of what the state of Serbia has assumed as a commitment, while at the same time meeting the conditions for EU accession. Therefore, everything that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done with Prime Minister Dacic, Vice-President Vukic, to you, Mr. Minister, to all others who have been participating in this really gruesome business, deserve one big confession from this home in any case. To return to the strategy, at least in the sense in which everyone who has been discussing the 2006 position, and even since 2008, has been seizing themselves for some of the mistakes and failures made during the period. I don't know why, because these mistakes and miss are more than obvious, more than obvious. The question arises, how can we help this strategy to be directed towards realisation in the practical sense of words, i.e. to liven up? This parliament has opportunities for that. The first option is to pass quality laws and it seems to me that this strategy is a bit in line with the resolution on the legislative policy that we recently adopted. Why? Because this parliament must avoid what has been burdening it for a long time, which is the passing of laws by emergency procedure. The more urgent the procedure in law making, the less transparency and vice versa, the more laws that are passed in the ordinary procedure are far more involved both professional and general public opinion, which is what is contained in the justice system reform strategy in the Republic of Serbia. Secondly, what is our obligation, us as MPs, is no doubt that we make every effort to make the laws, at least those procedural laws as clear, precise as possible, and that they refer exactly to what is applied in courts in the procedural sense of words, so that judges are not bound by hands. In the greatest extent, we, as law makers, influence that in the procedural and legal sense of the wording, the judicial procedure takes place effectively, within reasonable deadlines and that procedural solutions are quality solutions, but it is not only the issue of the adoption of laws on litigation, the Code of Criminal Procedure, but it is also a matter of material law. Mr Minister, you have also witnessed the adoption of a number of laws in the material and legal sense of words, which were under 1) anachrons, under 2) impractical, inanimate and inapplicable. Just now, the SPS MP group from this place pointed to the destruction of the Privatisation Act and Article 20z, the Privatisation Act, which speaks of the restructuring of privatisation entities, which lasts 20 years at which it kills and goes to commercial death, who knows how many other economic operators, who knows how many people are out of work? Tens of thousands of people. What time does the budget of the Republic of Serbia not fill in, what is no doubt a damage to the state? Unfortunately, we always have a post-festum mind, so we are just now coming to the conclusion after all these mistakes that now all the entities in privatisation, or in restructuring, should be sold as soon as possible to address the adverse consequences. We should've done it sooner, we wouldn't be in this situation. But what the government suggests, a particularly resolute ministry, i.e. the Ministry of Justice, is a huge shift forward in the adoption of quality laws, particularly related to the area of justice. What is now coming to us in the congregation procedure has no doubt a quality. Today I mentioned some of these laws relating to the Law on Judges, the Law on Courts, the Law on the Network of Courts, or the territorial organisation of the judiciary in Serbia, and these are indeed qualitative shifts forward. It is one of the ways the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia helps to realise the justice reform strategy, but not the only one. We need to be aware that when we pass future laws, the entire financial structure from which the funds for the judiciary are provided can no longer be in the hands of anyone but the judiciary. So, budget funds provided by the Budget Law, the budget rebalance, can be given exclusively to judicial authorities in the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the State Council of Prosecutors who will manage those funds, as they are best aware of the financial situation in courts and prosecutors. It is normal for control mechanisms in this direction to exist, it is normal for someone in this direction to submit reports, it is normal for someone to be responsible for their work in case the availability of funds or financial transfers does not go in the direction prescribed by the law. What is certain is that, thanks to the mistakes since 2006, and then in 2008, until 2011, the harsh failures of the judiciary are financially debacled. Why? Because vehicles of 10 or 15 years of age are being driven in the rolling stock because computer technology is not still at the level at which it should be, because a long time ago it was necessary to introduce an electronic system of judicial work and there is only the commercial judiciary that has come to life, as regards the AVP programme and the introduction of AVP programs as automatic case-leading in the judiciary. All those who conducted justice during this period from 2006 to 2011 had to take care of this, not to do so now and to put it on the burden of the Ministry and the current High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. Therefore, there is no possibility of ablation for the mistakes committed in the earlier period, but what the MP group of the SPS categorically insists and what we expect from the Ministry of Justice, that it will make its contribution, is a radical but truly radical transformation in the professional sense of courts in the prosecutions, in order to finally, pejoranically, clear the judiciary from those who do not deserve to be carriers of both judicial and judicial functions. So today I have pointed out the necessity and the need to assess the judges, to remove a huge mistake as soon as possible, as I have stated today, that a large number of unquality judges have been re-elected and today stand in the judiciary and do their job. The way they do it has not yet been evaluated or evaluated, either positively, or negatively, and the most citizens, or those who need justice, suffer from it. In the end, since I think I've covered everything I didn't get today, when I was talking about the judiciary, I'm just going to go back to a few more sentences on the network of courts. I said that in no way should any local patriotic reasons define a proposal for a network of courts, because local patriotism here can't have weight, but what must have weight is that citizens deserve to have their courts available. The availability of courts means something to citizens that is imperative of future work of courts. There are a large number of conversators to return to where courts once existed, courts, or at least to be judicial units. We must be aware of three facts that no one can doubt. First of all, if we had come to the situation of having a huge financial burden, that we had walking judges, literally, to put it that way, judges in transit, who were wasting a lot of time and energy to get from the place of residence to the judicial unit, then to the court again. Where is the possibility of quality trial, and where is the possibility of quality conduct? What is certain is that the network of courts must be rationalised, but at the same time that the imperative, which I have pointed out, is represented, that all citizens can provide their judicial protection, that they can be given judicial protection in courts where they are closest and where it can be in the most efficient way. As for the end or district where I come from, I think that there is an adequate network of courts in the proposed legal texts and there should be no objections. We simply have to make sure that really those territories of the Republic of Serbia which are not covered by a network of courts or judicial units are reconsidered and that we give an assessment of that network before it finally enters the assembly procedure. Finally, given that I did not point out today, it is doubtless that this strategy deserves support as it is proposed, and it is also doubtless that there is a great fight ahead to bring this strategy into reality, to pass quality laws after this strategy. It is also doubtless that we must all make a major contribution to the future, as well as to the strategy of what we have assumed as a commitment to join the EU. Therefore, Mr. Minister, the SPS parliamentary group will vote unreservedly in the voting day for this strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19771	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Igor Becic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19772	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable citizens, we are here to discuss two very important strategies. First, I'm going to talk about the National Strategy for Justice Reform. This strategy shows the state's willingness to respond to citizens' requirements for respect for human rights, independent, impartial and effective justice, and in order to strengthen citizens' confidence in the legal institutions of the state and respect for them. At the same time, the strategy should prepare the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia for the European integration process, and in particular its corrective role in removing the consequences of the judicial reform implemented in 2009, which we can say for sure already, was disastrous. It is very important to support international regional organisations for the adoption and implementation of the proposed strategy, particularly the support of the European Commissioner for Justice, which has indicated that this is essential for Serbia and its European pathway. The new strategy, compared to the previous one, is more comprehensive and refers to the entire judicial system. Its main role is to determine the right direction and priorities, as well as to target reform activities. The strategy sets out as a priority the resolution of the remaining cases on the basis of a detailed programme, as well as by rerouting and taking over part of judicial cases by judicial professions, notaries and perpetrators, since the number of cases left in the courts of general and special jurisdiction in the Republic of Serbia has been over three million years already, and that some 100,000 cases become obsolete annually. It is also very important to resolve them within a reasonable period of time in order to reduce the number of convictions against the Republic of Serbia, the European Court of Human Rights for violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, as well as the large amounts paid by them. The reduction in the number of cases should also contribute to the adoption of amendments to the Law on the Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, since the network of the same, established in 2010, has proved inefficient, judicial units inequitable, and to the citizens of justice, instead of being available, has become ever further. Since it is happening and has to go more than 50 kilometers to the first court or judicial unit, in some places where courts traditionally existed, the reform was abolished, as in my Vrbas, Stara Paz or Ruma, and the complex situation also contributes to the return of judges and prosecutors who were not re-elected in 2009 on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision in terms of their adequate and effective inclusion. I am also pleased that the working group has observed the arguments that the Vrbas Courts Law proposes to re-establish the basic court in Vrbas. The strategy discusses the need to reduce political influence, to change the composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors in that direction to their members no longer be representatives of the legislative and executive authorities, as well as the adoption of new amendments and additions to existing laws in order to increase the efficiency of courts. This will also contribute to identifying court practice in order to avoid making different decisions in the same or identical situations. The dispensation of judges and public prosecutors from administrative affairs, the establishment of a career system that will motivate the best students to become trainees in courts and public prosecutors, and to keep the best of them in the judicial system, to separate the judiciary budget from the executive budget, to strengthen the professional capacity and to set clear, objective, transparent criteria for choice, evaluation, promotion and accountability of judicial officials. The strategy also recognises the need to address the problem of overcrowding of criminal and correctional institutions and to promote the system of enforcement of alternative sanctions, and a significant shift has been made towards improving the treatment of convicted persons. As Serbia moves towards opening negotiations, it is a pleasure today to say that we have been given a date for starting negotiations. It is a very important reform of the judiciary to build citizens' confidence in the judicial system, which will help the Republic of Serbia to be a safe and tempting field for foreign investment. We highly appreciate the efforts made by the Ministry of Justice to implement the reform process, and therefore the SNS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the proposed strategy in the voting day. I'll say a few more words about the National Anti-Corruption Strategy. One of the definitions of corruption is that it is an abuse of public authority to achieve private interests, in addition to unemployment, a low standard of living, one of the biggest problems facing Serbian citizens, but it is not immune to a much more developed country of the world, which is also the current problem. That is why all our efforts must be directed towards combating it and this strategy with the proposed objectives is a systematic approach in the area of establishing a legal and institutional framework for its prevention and prevention. No matter what levels it appears and what forms of corruption it is, it poses an obstacle to the country's social and economic development, affecting citizens' confidence in state bodies, which is very important and is a crucial factor that foreign investors are counting on before they decide to invest in the Republic of Serbia. Statistics related to corruption in our country are not encouraging at all. The average corruption rate at national level is about 9.3%, but this government has shown, not only that it is aware of this problem, but also very bravely opposes corruption, which the citizens recognise and support, as well as the entire international community. The strategy sets out the general principles that public authorities are obliged to manage, as well as areas where priority will be acted, which are recognised, as the promoter has pointed out, as key to building and strengthening systemic anti-corruption mechanisms. Although maltenes, there are areas where corruption does not appear, the objectives set by it do not only apply to the area of priority action, but also to all other areas where this one, we can freely pay tribute to society, appears. In the area of justice, the strategy recognises the need for the judiciary's budget to be separated from the executive's budget, in order to fully implement the constitutional principle of judicial independence, which will also be contributed by the Judicial Academy, which will be the only one in charge of electing judicial officials. The introduction of a new criminal act of illegal wealth is also foreseen, and it is noteworthy that the need for co-operation with national European international institutions is particularly highlighted. The fight against corruption will help a single criminal record with a corrupt element. The privatisation of businesses in Serbia was one of the areas in which corruption behaviour was expressed, which also contributed to inaccurate legal solutions. The effects of privatisation are very bad. About 630 contracts were cancelled. About two-thirds of the jobs have been permanently lost. The strategy provides for changes to several laws. Among them are those in the area of privatisation, reorganisation and bankruptcy, where the amended legal framework will affect future removal from corruption risks. Although the work of the tax administration has become more transparent by introducing a system of e-taxes, it is a major disadvantage that the records of persons are not related to the property and income records, making it very difficult to control the property cards of employees and public service officials, as well as to finance political parties. All in order to prevent conflicts of interest. The measures envisioned by the strategy are also the establishment of a special unit in the MUP to combat corruption, strengthen the internal system of police officers' control, in the area of spatial planning and construction, and to curb corrupt behaviour in the legalisation process, issue of construction permits that are unsuitably long awaited and remove any other irregularities that do not make the Republic of Serbia an attractive investment ground. It is very important to announce the adoption of a system code on alarmers that will allow those who have pointed to suspicious corruption to be fully protected legally, which has not been the case so far. Let's just remember how the past persons who reported the index affair at the Faculty of Law in Kragujevac, or exposed the so-called. Road mob. Finally, in preventing and combating corruption, there must be no privileged nor selective law enforcement in order to consistently implement the principle of zero tolerance. In this fight, co-ordinated actions by all state authorities, the private sector and citizens are needed. The SNS parliamentary group will therefore vote in favour of the proposed strategy in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19773	The word has a folk MP, Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19774	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, it seems to me that the good news has arrived in Serbia today. I have no intention of discussing it, but it seems to me that today's topics have contributed greatly to bringing this good news to Serbia today. Publicity in Serbia and our citizens, if you ask them how they measure the previous year of this government, first place with law and one rational evaluation, one rational evaluation as the greatest or most visible result which has been relatively efficient or has been initiated, is the result of once-proclaimed and now you start fighting corruption and crime. The strategy defines only the fight against corruption and anti-corruption mechanisms, but we have unfairly and somewhat unjustly excluded the concept of crime from this strategy, because corruption and crime are not spirit concepts. They generate one another and those who are prone to crime will surely and unmistakably identify those who are prone to corruption. They're always well-recognized because they're similar to that. It is important to note because my impression is personally that in the strategy itself is not properly explained by this string and this recognition of corruption and crime, but these are only personal impressions. There are a lot better lawyers than me and they explained it in a much better way. What I am interested in as a citizen and as a MP is not only a legal framework that I will talk about later, but also a way that we as a society understand the fight against corruption. It's also a political issue, but it's also a very important social issue. When I read the strategy, it seems to me that we have a problem with some systemic disorder that creates a corrupt way of life. The system was neither given a term nor a given term, some deductive term, self-born and nothing caused, because the system was created by people and the system that was created we all created for years. When I say all of us, I mean politicians and all of Serbia's citizens. We created it by actively participating, unfortunately a good part of it is active, some others and passively, agreeing to be part of such a system in which we can only turn our heads and crack and wonder how those who become immeasurable and unprovoked by one’s ability become rich, and we strangely find ourselves in a state of circumstances increasingly poor. I'm talking about the largest number of Serbian citizens. It is a big problem that we sometimes don't talk about enough, pointing to the legal procedures and rules that are most important in sanctioning and prevention and education, but I think we've slightly neglected the topic, in general, of a corrupt way of life that has become a collective way of thinking and living in Serbia. On the other hand, we almost civilised ourselves by bowing down to these capable people who had become the false financial and political elite of Serbia and placed their ability and resourcefulness on the pedestal of some social values and advances in life. So, if the basic impression of our citizens is that they are politically willing, and they have been identified in one man, in one person, and this is often the subject of criticism by the first Deputy Prime Minister, who is again in charge of fighting corruption and crime, we must be guided by a personal example of Serbia and its citizens. It seems to me that the personal example in the behaviour of Deputy Prime Minister Vukic is best at it. Here's why, so as not to just praise the leader of my party. It seems to me that at no point has he shown even excessive exaltration, nor am I satisfied that the state has been so terribly devoured by this rotten tissue of corruption and that a good part of the people who probably under other circumstances and other times have been truly successful by the standards of a fair and normal path on which you can actually succeed in some country, unfortunately, have become encumbered in corruption and crime. No one should be looking forward to that. I say again, that is why it is very important that we do not go into this fight against corruption into an uncivilised heist at all, but that very seriously and as the first vice president seems to me and do, very seriously, committed and without over-exploitation, we are consistent in the application of all those measures that can cleanse our country from corruption, even to the extent that it is indeed in practice, and in practice it is possible. Of course it's never possible to deal with corruption until the end, because you get into a situation where every time you resent that you haven't touched anyone who deserved it with a finger of justice. That seems to me to be the problem we're going to face in the future, but to get rid of something, and the habit is worse than the habit, you have to create a habit. The habit is created by a persistent, consistent application or a persistent and consistent change of law and therefore is a very important strategy for fighting corruption that we are talking about today and which we hope to adopt in Parliament. Accepting a job like this in the past year was a purely political avant-garde. What makes me happy and happy is that unlike art, where the avant-garde was once unrecognizable, it seems to me that this political avant-garde business is recognized in the right way by the citizens of Serbia and is slowly becoming part of a common political culture. If, as a MP, I have the right to my own opinion, then I am sure that this is one of the greatest results that anyone in politics can achieve, which is the process of starting a peaceful and orderly change, and that is not a change that does not mean changing the regime, but a change that means a profound change in the collective understanding of the way of life we want to live and the system that we want to live in. For this reason, I will return to the strategy, it is necessary that we succeed in all that I have spoken of, to ensure one fortress of regulations and a fortress of procedures that will defend us against corruption. Unfortunately, I'm not some anthropological optimist. I don't think all people work as hard as possible without good surveillance and monitoring. It's so in the arranged systems. We need to recognize this model, adapt it to our circumstances, and because of that, it seems to me, there is no effective fight against corruption without essential internal reforms and progress in reforms. I had a lot more to say, but it seems to me that what's most important, about in this segment of political and, let's say, in the system of values is already said, but what no one has mentioned, and I would like that, that all of us as citizens have to recognize our part of responsibility, that the biggest, the ones who have misunderstood that public function means the right to abuse, and not the right use in order to be of some general benefit and good, and hence, our own personal benefits, will be processed in all procedures, not selectively as colleagues have said today. But all citizens must understand that not only can the state be both the source of corruption and the greatest anti-corruption fighter. Few of the citizens understand themselves as a anti-corruption fighter. It's perfectly normal in a situation where we, and it's my only criticism, we still don't have a law on the protection of alarmers and without such a law that will allow people not to be marked as some people, I'm not going to say that I don't insult this high house, but in any case, they're being mislabeled and most often bear responsibility and sanctions for it. Instead, it should be a system in which they will be rewarded by this society and labelled as brave and honest people. Without that law, we will not be able to actively involve citizens in the process of fighting corruption itself. Just a few things about a specific strategy. It seems to me that it is very well seen what is, in fact, the basic mechanism of a responsible state, therefore, and responsibility and transparency and efficiency. But what makes me particularly happy is that for the first time, I think, mentions a metric principle. The Meritocratic principle means that we are finally introducing knowledge and ability as the only criterion for progress in society. The Meritocratic principle means that the right and best people should be placed in places that suit them by their knowledge and abilities. It is one of the methods of preventing corruption, and it is certainly something that is, indeed, in a very short, summed way, defined in the strategy, but it seems to me, of great importance and that it finally introduces the principle of not some merit and loyalty, but knowledge and ability. As for the application itself, which is mentioned here, which will also be a major challenge, as is always a challenge to apply any strategic document you have brought, the application itself will depend on the three components of the successful state that I have counted. These are: responsibility, transparency and efficiency. Transparency is very important in the work of all authorities, especially at the disposal of public money and all other resources. This means that increasing transparency directly affects the reduction of corruption. These are things that seem to be difficult to implement in practice, but they are not if we start, as I said, we create a habit of this persistent and consistent application of the criteria and mechanisms that are listed in the strategy. What I would like in the end to say as one message to the citizens and to all of us, the anti-corruption strategy and its implementation and its implementation in practice are not only important to us as a society and individuals in order to be better, to make us better, it seems to me that it is important for two other reasons. First, to break up with one practice of self-destruction, because when you break up and abuse what's yours, we mutilate not only ourselves, but also those who come after us, and on the other hand, to become finally competitive with the regulated systems, which may be able to bring both fresh and clean capital to Serbia, and not as a high-corruption state, to become, let me say, some kind of pro-pulsive terrain for illegal and gray money flows and that, indeed, as a society, we finally make a decision that there is no change in the peaceful, orderly system and ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19775	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Irena Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19776	Thank you. We have a strategy for fighting corruption in the Republic of Serbia between 2013 and 2018. Corruption is the biggest social problem of the day. The fight against corruption in Serbia is a fight for better lives and standards of citizens, a better economy and the essential establishment of a fair order, and none of these institutions should give up. One of the most frequently used definitions of corruption, under which corruption is a misuse of public authority for private benefit, and contains a fundamental assumption of corruption that public powers are entrusted to officials in order to be used for the common good rather than for their own needs. Even though it culminates in modern times, where it appears in all forms, corruption is an old phenomenon, so time and history are always to be taken into account. The presence and tradition are strong allies of corruption and one of the reasons the overall impotence in its repression. The overall goal of the strategy is to remove corruption as an obstacle to the economic, social and democratic development of the Republic of Serbia to the greatest extent possible. The consequences of corruption are not only in the poverty of society and state, but in the dramatic decline of citizens' confidence in democratic institutions, as well as the creation of uncertainty and instability of the economic system seen, among other things, in reducing investment. The success of the defence strategy depends primarily on the extent of the country's overall social and economic development. Corruption destroys the substance of every country, and also suppressing it to the limits of acceptability to the standards of the world that we seek is a condition without which the state cannot be legitimateized as a state of rule of law. The fight against corruption must be organised and a long-term process of applying defined measures to combat and prevent corruption. Therefore, the aim of this anti-corruption strategy is to enable strategic planning and the creation of an effective anti-corruption system. The strategy will also define indicators for the implementation of measures and activities on the basis of which they will be monitored, as well as indicators for the assessment of performance. Corruption is a social disadvantage, a lack of social norms and values needed for the normal functioning of free conduct. As a result of the corruption, it becomes an intolerable obstacle to the development of international economic relations. The strategic framework for the fight against corruption in the Republic of Serbia provides frameworks for the establishment, development and organisation of authorities and public authorities in order to create an effective system that can fully meet all the challenges in preventing and combating corruption. First of all, I think that the responsibility of public authorities in the Ministry of the Interior, in the prosecution and the holders of judicial functions is very large. The fight against corruption must also be systematic at all levels of government - legislative, judicial and executive. It is important to highlight the following six defined strategic principles - the principle of rule of law, the principle of zero tolerance on corruption, the principle of accountability, the principle of comprehensiveness of application of measures and cooperation of entities, the principle of efficiency and the principle of transparency. The political system plays a very important role in the fight against corruption. It is up to the resolve and ability of the political system's factors to deal with corruption that depends on its success. Accordingly, it is important to say that effective implementation of the strategy involves the existence of a strong political will that can only be achieved in joint efforts and co-operation at the highest political level. In the end, it should be said that corruption is a serious social problem. This is indicated by citizens' views and analysis of international organisations, but the efforts of the state bodies of the mentioned international organisations and civil society organisations to combat corruption cannot give good results in the long run without citizens' participation. Citizens are subject to an anti-corruption strategy, but also its object. In the Republic of Serbia, there is developed awareness and political will, above all by the SNS, to make significant progress in the fight against corruption, with respect for democratic values, the rule of law and the protection of fundamental human rights. These include a strategy to fight corruption. As you've heard, the SNS will vote on this strategy in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19777	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19778	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, most of the time I've spent speaking as a MP, all this time and all about time, was, in fact, the most often committed to fighting corruption in Serbia. I can say that I am pleased that a real anti-corruption strategy has finally arrived, which I hope, with the political will that exists right now in Serbia, thanks to the SNS and the party president Mr. Vukic, which has not been the case in the past years, so whatever we did, without that political will, whatever acts we've brought, has never been effective, as citizens have witnessed and seen the destruction of our entire society and economy, because the fight against corruption practically has never led to a few months ago in Serbia. What I want to say at the beginning, I'm going to quote some things from the proposal itself, I'm going to say some things myself from those earlier times when I was saying something that I've prepared for today's address to the National Assembly and to the citizens of Serbia. The first thing we have to say is, it's already said by a few colleagues but it's not burning again, that in parallel practice in the world corruption is mostly seen as an abuse of authority for personal benefit. We often spread it or find some other definitions, but essentially this is the most accurate definition. The minister himself said that about the spread of this problem in us points to the corruption perception index according to which Serbia is 80th among 176 countries participating in the "Transparent International". We can say that for years this perception or that position of ours has not improved for the better. The first National Anti-Corruption Strategy in the Republic of Serbia was adopted in 2005, and the 2006 Action Plan. But the only thing that was done in that period was that several anti-corruption institutions were created based on the strategy and the action plan. We talked about some yesterday about their reports, such as the Anti-Corruption Agency or the DRI. These institutions were almost prevented from doing what their function was, and we could hear the same thing, whether they were left without money, without enough personnel, without the rooms where they would work, so that they were practically just formed to meet some obligations in Euro-integration or that some image would be taken in front of Serbian citizens to fight corruption, and essentially had no ability to work, did not work and did not contribute to Serbia's progress as a society. To talk about this, I have prepared something that is the most serious research done in Serbia regarding corruption in Serbia done by the UN Office for Drugs and Crime in Vienna. They did this research for years and published it in 2012. Only research is called – Corruption in Serbia, experience of citizens. The latest polls were conducted at the end of 2011, and I repeat, they published everything in 2012. A year. The results of this poll are truly devastating, although we all know it and the citizens of Serbia felt it on their skin. Here we can see some things that I have the impression so far that it has not often been talked about and that some things that are true and the everyday life of our citizens are avoided. For example, the main results of this poll say that based on the opinion of Serbian citizens, corruption takes third place among the most significant problems Serbia faces today after unemployment and poverty, a low standard of living. During the 12 months preceding this survey, which coincided precisely with the work of the previous government, 14% of Serbian residents had direct or indirect experience in bribing civil servants. There are no significant differences in the prevalence of corruption in urban and rural areas or between Serbia's regions, except in Shumadija and Western Serbia where the prevalence rate is somewhat lower than the national average, otherwise, the highest in Belgrade. Corruption experienced 8.5% of women versus 10% of men in Serbia. People who had at least once had experience in the previous year, which is about 2010 and 2011, on average gave five bribes, i.e. once every 10 weeks. More than half - 52% of bribes are paid in money, one third in food and drink. The average bribe paid in money in Serbia is 15,530 dinars, which is about 165 euros. In 56% of cases, Serbia's citizens themselves have initiated bribery, which is also a defeating data. In 14% of cases, bribes are openly sought. The main objectives of bribery in Serbia are, let's listen to this, speeding up procedures – 34%, or getting better treatment – 18% and ending procedures – 18%. Among those who gave bribes over the previous year, more than half of them gave bribes to doctors – 55%, more than a third of the police – 40% and a quarter of them to nurses. Among Serbian citizens who have had experience giving bribes, less than 1% reported the case. Notices of the general spread of corruption in the state sector support the experience of 6% of newly employed civil servants who have provided themselves with a job with bribes. The supply of goods, services and money to win voters was noted in the latest elections at local and state level. The percentage of citizens offered bribes in local elections was 7% and as much in the last parliamentary elections. When we look at some of the tables that are interesting we can see that various surveys and studies conducted in Serbia to analyse the data obtained, the scope and nature of corruption, such as Polls he conducted for the UN "Medim Gallup" in October 2009, in March 2010. It turns out that the number of citizens who directly paid bribes remained quite stable and did not change and that something that could be called corruption and bribes in Serbia is indeed stable in these polls. Here we can see in one table showing how the citizens themselves are talking about who they were most bribed by doctors, police, civil servants, teaching staff, tax officials, customs officials, public enterprises, judges and prosecutors, and more. In addition to experience in granting bribes by examining the perception of citizens in corruption, additional information may be obtained, e.g. Based on the 2010 Transparency International report. A large share of citizens, 49% believe the level of corruption has increased between 2009 and 2011. What's also devastating is the reporting of bribes. In general, the frequency of reporting crimes in authorities is directly proportional to the combined impact of three factors, the observed severity of the crime, the belief in the authorities' determination to identify the offenders and the direct benefit that the victim can get by reporting a crime. The results of this survey show that less than 1% of those paying bribes reported their case to authorities. Why? There's also an interesting table in which it can be seen that citizens don't do it because they think it's useless, no one would care to report it. Many believe that even a gift is a token of gratitude. I benefited from giving bribes – there were also such answers or that it was a common practice. We can say about the strategy that these are some of the reasons that are and how important it is for us to bring a strategy, and then the action plan and everything that follows to effectively fight corruption. Namely, what can be our conclusions? We have them in the strategy itself, that the strategic framework for the fight against corruption in the Republic of Serbia has provided a framework for the establishment of the development and organisation of authorities, public authorities, in order to create an effective system that can fully meet all the challenges in the fight against corruption. These six strategic principles have been defined. It's already been talked about, but we have to do it again because without it, there is no effective fight against corruption. There must be a principle of rule of law, the principle of zero tolerance on corruption, the principle of accountability, the principle of comprehensiveness of the application of measures and the co-operation of entities, the principle of efficiency and the principle of transparency. It is important to bring the strategy forward, and this should be said today especially because it is also important in terms of the process of joining the Republic of Serbia. Today we heard various comments about the EU's decision to Serbia. To clarify some things to the citizens, it is necessary to say this time that what awaits us in the coming period is the October month framework for negotiations with Serbia, November of the month quinning process. In all this time, Serbia needs to determine the negotiating team and the main negotiator, and in January it is the start of negotiations and that is the fact after today and that is what the citizens of Serbia should know. We need to determine a serious negotiating team. The European Union will set up a serious negotiating team and try to defeat Slovenians in that path. It took them six years to negotiate. Let's try to do it both briefly and make Serbia part of the European family in this decade. Such a thing requires effective implementation of a strategy that implies a firm political will, and we can have a firm political will and have shown so far in the work of this government, SNS ministers and party president, Mr Vukic. Without that will and without political will, nothing that needs to be done will be possible. Based on this strategy, and she's talking about how she can't stand everything at will or organize everything one man is proving to be incorrect. Yesterday we saw that it was not true because now that there is political will in the country of the institution they are working. Of course we need to further strengthen our regulatory bodies and, of course, we need to modernise the work of security services and police. Of course we need to strengthen those institutions too. But all that takes political will. Serbian citizens know that they have it in SNS and that, unlike some of the previous periods when these strategies were dead letter on paper, in the next period they will become effective, will be implemented for the benefit of our citizens and our countries, which will have a better goal for Serbia, stronger Serbia and citizens who will live better and have a better standard and all together be part of a family that cannot be without Serbia, because Serbia is strategically important to the EU. Today, there were those who said the EU does not want Serbia. In fact, they show either that they are malicious or that they do not know what they are talking about because without Serbia, the EU cannot be very present in the space between Vienna and Bosphorus. Everyone knows that Serbia is the most important state in that chain and that it is the EU needed as well. And as we must do, I am sure the EU will do everything possible to make Serbia part of this great family as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19779	National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19780	Dear President, honourable ministers, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, it is a pleasure and an honor to have two very important strategic national documents in front of us today. First, it is a Strategy for judicial reform and then a Strategy for fighting corruption. Both strategies are interlinked. Both strategies are being discussed today. They complement each other and are mutually connected. I would focus on the Anti-Corruption Strategy primarily because corruption is an evil that not only affects one country but certainly affects the reduction of citizens' confidence in the institutions of the system and affects the creation of an uncertain and economically weak environment, and we know that without economic stability and without a healthy economic environment there is no investment. This strategy is based on basic principles. Among other things, it is the principle of rule of law, which means respect for the Constitution, laws, sublaws, international documents, but also the principle of zerotolerance that implies non-selective application in terms of corruption. In the first part of this strategy relating to corruption, priorities have been mapped and identified, a description of the situation in the mapped priorities, which is certainly not good and which is certainly difficult and burdened safely and with some corrupt activities, but other than the description of the situation in this strategy are also given goals that can lead to corruption in those priorities, i.e. areas being overcome. I'm not talking about priorities, I'm talking about prevention. Why about prevention? Because prevention is the removal of causes leading to disease, and corruption certainly is the disease of a society. Dear citizens of Serbia, have you heard that someone has become enormously rich, and yet says that they have become rich under the law? In order to stop this from happening, this strategy, namely in its preventive measures, identified as one of the objectives of establishing a risk analysis of corruption in the preparation process for the adoption of regulations. What does that mean? This means that those who adopt regulations already in its preparation must carry out a risk analysis of corruption, and based on a methodology to be done by the Anti-Corruption Agency. Also, before the rules are completed, authorities are required to obtain the opinion of the Anti-Corruption Agency. In this way and through the achievement of this preventive objective, the laws will certainly eradicate corruption. What else is foreseen by prevention, and what can lead to the prevention of corruption? It is a continuous education of experts in the field of justice and prosecution to the problem of corruption, to recognise corruption. For their education, the Judicial Academy has already foreseen this kind of education through the annual plan and programme of its work. Of course, what we have to do is certainly raise citizens' awareness that corruption is socially unacceptable behavior that needs to be eradicated. Raising citizens' awareness can be done through campaigns, through various educations, through seminars, through training and in other ways. There are regulatory bodies and strengthening the capacity of these regulatory bodies, both human and human potential, both material and technical, which can also lead to the prevention of corruption. What is very important and what can also bring about the prevention of corruption, is the adoption of a law on the protection of alarmers, i.e. creating trust with citizens that those who report corruption will be adequately protected, i.e. They'll have full protection. In this respect, the adoption of a special law relating to the protection of alarmers is also envisaged. Prevention measures also include regulation of the employment system and the system of progress in authorities through the setting of criteria and merits. Dear citizens, have you heard by now that someone has progressed or has taken credit? You're not. This is envisaged in the anti-corruption strategy as a preventive action, i.e. as an action to combat corruption. Of course, in public authorities, many citizens know that work contracts are made without internal or public competition, and that directors have been given great discretionary powers. In this context, adequate legal regulations will be created to regulate the working-legislative status of all employees in the state administration. Of course, the adoption of legal provisions relating to pay evening is also foreseen. That the anti-corruption strategy will not remain a dead letter on paper, it is also foreseen in this strategic document, says that the headquarters of these activities will be the Ministry of Justice and State Administration, but through the action plan and all other state authorities will have a concrete person and a concrete person who will be in charge of monitoring and implementing the strategy. Of course, that the strategy is not a dead letter on paper also shows the fact that three months of meetings will be held where information exchanges and exchanges of experiences will take place according to the given plans and the specific activities provided for in the strategy. As for the education of judicial and prosecutorial staff, it is very important, except for this education conducted by the Judicial Academy, the exchange of experience and knowledge and transfer of knowledge with international organisations that have great experience in the fight against corruption. Exchange of experience certainly is one of the ways of training. As far as SNS is concerned, the fight against corruption and crime is its strategic definition. The first Deputy Prime Minister and party president, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, has shown this by now, and the SNS has no dilemma whatsoever to support this strategy. As for the other strategy on judicial reform, I must express my personal gratitude to you, Mr. Minister, for recognising that the geographical characteristics of certain municipalities, especially those of the mountainous mountains in the southwest part of Serbia, or in Priboj, from which I come, and how significant from the aspect of the return of jurisdiction to basic courts. The bridge is a municipality from which citizens from the rural area had to cross the state border three times to reach the city centre, and from there another 60km to the basic court, where it was located before the new network was formed. We also hope that the judicial reform strategy will make a major contribution and a major contribution from the aspect of the trial within a reasonable period, because certainly the previous experience that we had in the judiciary led to the fact that in cases which were particularly urgent, the protection of the most vulnerable, or children, instead of eight days, the first hearing was scheduled only after one year. The Serbian Progressive Party will also support this strategic document, which is systematic, quality, professional, by the time it arrives in the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19781	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jasmina Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19782	Dear Ministers, the President-in-Office, fellow MPs, respected citizens, after months of public debate, the participation of local professional public, as well as the recommendation of the European Commission, is ahead of us with the National Anti-Corruption Strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2013 to 2018. From the content of the proposal for this strategy, it can be seen immediately that its goal is to stop, or remove, corruption as the biggest obstacle to the economic and democratic development of the Republic of Serbia. It is clear to Serbian citizens long ago that corruption and crime are precisely the biggest reasons why we are in such a difficult situation today. For years, the real system has been untouchable. For years it has been done non-transparently in the most profitable areas, and as a product of that we have too rich, in a way that is not in accordance with the law. Today we have a situation, as our people would say – wherever they scratch, corruption pops up. Now that we've found ourselves able to be protected, and there are ready to fight exactly these and such phenomena, and we need to bring this strategy to fight, I'm not going to say corruption, I'm going to say to fight the state thief and the thieves and the state crime and the criminals, because they're nothing else and they're not. We know that citizens' trust in state institutions has been seriously violated. The adoption and consistent implementation of this strategy and action plan will lead to the strengthening of institutional capacity and the creation of system mechanisms to combat corruption. Because without a system mechanism, even this fight won't be effective. The anti-corruption strategy defined six strategic principles in the fight. These are: the principle of rule of law – all the same before the law; the principle of zero tolerance – there is no untouchable; the principle of accountability, the principle of comprehensiveness of application of measures and cooperation of entities, the principle of efficiency, the principle of transparency. All of this is designed to implement this strategy over the next five years. The Action Plan will provide for concrete measures and actions to implement these strategic objectives. The strategy also provides for effective co-operation and exchange of information between police, prosecutors, courts, regulatory and supervisory bodies, and without this co-operation, it would not be possible to apply this strategy. As important as this co-operation is, it is also envisaged to form a common database for corrupting crimes, which would certainly make it easier for bodies fighting corruption, and this strategy has been specifically addressed by political corruption, corruption in the field of public finances, justice, police, privatisation, health, education, sports, spatial planning and construction, as well as corruption in the media. As a measure to establish a better prevention system than corrupt phenomena, the strategy foresees that the public authorities' employment and promotion system will be exclusively on the basis of criteria, as well as to ensure transparency in public authorities' bodies. The responsibility for the implementation of the objectives set out in the anti-corruption strategy, against national thieving and thieves, state crime and criminals, we must assume all because of the success of this fight. We are witnessing that clearly set goals, provided that these goals are clearly, honestly and fully dedicated, can be achieved. The struggle led by this government, and above all by its first vice president, Alexander Vukic, is now confirmed by success. Success is the return of the Republic of Serbia to the order of the countries with which it is discussed, negotiated and reached an agreement. The consistent application of this strategy will have a significant impact on the rapid pathway of our country's progress in every respect. Citizens have already brought their court on the fight and efforts to fight corruption, and their assessment will follow in some future period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19783	Thank you. National MP Irena Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19784	Thank you. The President-in-Office, respected ministers, respected colleagues, is ahead of us with a strategy that is essential for the future of our society, which is a proposal for a national strategy to fight corruption. The importance of fighting corruption should not be particularly stressed. It is clear that if we want an orderly and above all legal state, the fight against corruption must be persistent and uncompromising. It is precisely the goal of this strategy that corruption in our society should be removed as far as possible. To root out corruption in our society means to attract investors. It's one of the most important things. Because no one wants to invest their money and risk it. If we get better and clean our society from corruption, it automatically means that we attract investors, new jobs, and hence poverty reduction in our country and the economic development of our society. The rooted corruption also means that the citizens of this country regain lost trust in institutions, in their own state, which is the most important of all. Corruption has been present for so long in all areas of our society, that we've been aware of it for so long and we've practically gotten used to it, and that phenomenon has started to be seen as socially acceptable, unless it's exaggerated. Zero tolerance to corruption is exactly one of the basic principles to be managed by this strategy. The strategy is particularly focused on certain areas which are particularly vulnerable to corruption – finance, justice, health, education, sport and media. Priorities in terms of these areas had to be created, simply for reasons of time constraints, as well as restrictions on resources. As the objectives set out in this strategy in these planned five years are achieved, it is envisaged, when one healthy base is obtained, a sound basis, to continue a comprehensive fight against corruption. What is very important, and as provided for in this strategy, is one strategic and coordinated fight against corruption, in which different institutions that co-operate with each other participate, most importantly, and which bear responsibility for achieving the intended objectives. That's exactly what our society needs most, that someone finally begins to be held accountable. That's what our citizens need to see, that in our country there's a responsibility, whether it's an individual, whether it's an institution, but it's taking responsibility because that's what's really going to make our society well. All these envisaged targets will be specified by an action plan that will be adopted no later than three months after the adoption of the strategy. So the most important thing of all is that the strategy will not become and remain just a letter on paper, but that it will, with the intended measures and also with the supervision of these measures, which is very important, and how it will live in practice. What made me the deepest impression of this strategy is the part that deals with prevention. As prevention exists in all areas, such as health care, it is in this area that prevention is most important. When we get a healthy and responsible society one day, all of these measures are very important that there are organised and systematic measures to protect our society. It is the maturity, organisation, and responsibility of a society that one society sees as being pre-warned, recognized, and not simply dealing with the resolution of their negative consequences. One day, Serbia will be that kind of society -- the goal of our government. It's an ambitious task, but first of all, it's one big challenge. In addition to hard work, it is also very feasible, and this strategy is a very important step towards achieving that goal. That's why the SNS in voting day will definitely support this strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19785	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19786	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing two fundamentally important, strategic documents for each country and so on for Serbia. But what is devastating is that today, in the National Assembly of Serbia's Plenum Hall for this debate and on such topics as the fight against corruption and judicial reform, we have the opposition's lack of interest, we have an opposition MP present. I am grateful to him, and I hope that by the end of my speech, this room will be far more full. I am also grateful to the MPs of the SNS group, because they are in their presence, although the largest parliamentary group shows the importance of the topics discussed today. There is no state in this world that has no corruption. Also, there is no state in the world that says it is satisfied with its level of corruption it has. Also, in the programme of all political parties located in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia to those outside parliament, I don't think there should be any need to spend any time or words, there is a fight against corruption. And about that, I think we're all complicated. Different political parties had a different political relationship to corruption. One political party in the assembly procedure has sent a declaration on the fight against corruption, and the same declaration in the first article says: the fight against corruption must not be declarative. The declaration prohibiting the declaration, something I don't understand. On the other hand, other political options that had the chance to fight corruption in 2005, adopted the Anti-Corruption Strategy, which lasted until 2010. Two thousand five years after the perception of corruption, Serbia was ranked with 39 points in 80 places, five places behind Montenegro, eight places behind BiH, 11 places behind Macedonia and 18 places behind Croatia, of course of all countries in the ex-Yugoslavia area, Slovenia was the best in 37 places with almost 61 points. The biggest lack of this former strategy was that it had no monitoring and because it had no passing time or control, the strategy remained a dead letter on paper and a simple political pamphlet that was raised only when it was said – here we have a strategy to fight corruption, which contributed to Serbia again with 37 points in 80 places at the end of the period, i.e. in 2010. We didn't move. What are the effects of this strategy? What happened? In the fight against corruption, of course, those who directly put their fingers in honey, who participated in these corrupt acts, are also responsible, but those who were also responsible for their inaction, even though they were own and responsible for doing nothing, did nothing, so Serbia continued to camp in 80 places, as a very corrupt state. The data I've given you and the data I'm about to give you are not just SNS data, these are data from highly respectable sources such as Transparency International, such as the UNDP. We can talk about corruption in a way, say how much money is eaten and goes into black streams and ends up where it doesn't need to be, instead of with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. But it's very devastating if it's known that in Serbia a year has disappeared through corrupt acts of five hundred kilometers of roads, that 350 schools have disappeared. Last week, we discussed the Law on Primary and Medium Education, when we said how devastatingly small the percentage is for schools under the age of 10. Here's where our schools went? We had seven and a half thousand medical devices going through the corrupt work a year. These are devastating facts and it is reality, unfortunately in Serbia. We are being sent here by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we must have their opinion and we want to appreciate it. A survey was conducted in several waves since October 2009, until June 2012. The survey was very clear, and it targeted certain structures in Serbia that are most responsible for the growth of corruption. When asked that the judiciary has an important role, but it is too corrupt and this reformed judiciary to deal with corruption issues, 79% of respondents thought in October 2009, in June 2012, it is 87% higher. Since the existing government then was unable to prevent corruption should be removed, 72% thought in October, 87%, 15% of the difference in June. The set of laws adopted on corruption won't work in October 2009 meant 52%, in June 2012, and that's how 69% or 17% of citizens thought more. I've talked about the past so far, I won't talk about the past anymore, I've talked about the past as a reminder, as a way of thinking and the government and you, Mr. Selakovic, to learn from other people's mistakes, it's too expensive to learn from your mistakes. I want to leave the past to those who own it and write about it and participate in it, which are judges, prosecutors and cops, at least when it comes to corruption. In order to get to the future and to get to the strategy and expectations of the strategy, we must and must not skip the present. The government of the Republic of Serbia was formed in the summer of 2012, almost a year ago. At this point, Serbian citizens have far greater confidence in the government's ability to calculate itself with the problem of corruption, and it means slightly more than two-fifths or 41% of respondents, and such an optimistic finding has not been recorded in any of the previous five cycles of research. None of the previous governments believed in the fight against corruption, as Serbian citizens believe in this government of the Republic of Serbia and therefore do not spend that fact, continue that way. In addition to a shift in the trend of growing mistrust in the structure of government, citizens' awareness of corruption began to grow. No longer corruption in Serbia is part of folklore, no longer considered in Serbia when it comes to doctors, school, municipality, anywhere a bottle of whiskey or envelope must be carried, it is seen as a monster, it is seen as a disease, it is seen as an evil that it is in principle. It is good that the awareness of the citizens is such that this folklore simply, that the habit of past decades should be pushed aside and pointed to the greatest evil. At the same time, awareness raising has also been followed in practice by a reduction in the number of cases of direct and indirect contact with corruption. It also encourages the fact that cases of corruption have become an exception, not a rule. Also, what all of us need in this room to rejoice, which is that corruption perceptions are being seen falling, the truth is not so steep a fall but a fall from all institutions except local self-government. The biggest positive shift in the perception of resolving the problem of corruption compared to previous research has been shown by the government, the president of the Republic and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. After many, many years, the National Assembly has laid down at the bottom of the list by trust with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have set out to grow and that is good, not because of us who are currently in this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it is good for Serbia, it is good for the institutions, it is good for some future people who will sit in these benches, and I am sure it will be better than we are. The fight against corruption, in my humble opinion, has three dimensions. Penalty, preventive and educational. Because of the condition we inherited, because of the system that was the criminal dominant. However, when it comes to this crime, the corruption has already been done, the damage has already been done, and what I am sure this anti-corruption strategy will contribute to making it more and more rare in the future. That's why I'd concentrate on preventive and prevention, which is more important if only a corrupt act didn't come to it. As for prevention, I would particularly highlight the role of the Anti-Corruption Agency, but also other independent regulatory bodies, there I would also point out the role of another pillar of SNS policy, which is the Office for Rapid Responses or "One Stop Shop", many have put on a pillar of shame, not wanting to understand what the Office of Quick Answers means, and it means a barrier and a dam between citizens, investors and potential people working in the state administration and local self-government who could potentially ask them to do some corrupt work. Citizens of Serbia, by adopting and forming an office for quick answers, will come to one place both citizens and investors and anyone who wants something from the state administration. He's going to be teaching papers while he's doing his job, and he's going to follow up on the Internet to who for as long as he can stay on the document, where there's a backlog, why there's a backlog, but he won't have to go from office to office, he won't have to think about wasting time, if there's a break, if there's anyone else out there, if there's gonna be a sick person looking for something. The fast response office is the best prevention because it is creating a dam, a quality dam between citizens and investors on the one hand and the state administration and representatives of local self-government. About the educational dimension, I think she's highly elaborated my colleague, Mrs. Vukojčić. The basic principles of this strategy are the rule of law, that laws are passed and that they are respected and that I see a great role to play in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The bill we're passing shouldn't be just a dead letter on paper. The laws are like children, it's not enough just to bear them, it's supposed to follow them, it needs to be raised to their feet, until they strengthen them, until they start living on their own, they need to be followed, raised, changed eventually if they do something wrong. It is the control function that the National Assembly needs to consume at full capacity. What are the effects of the laws we make? What was better? Do you know what's better in Serbia, what better is going on in Serbia than the laws we've passed? No, we must not and should not remain that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is merely a place where stamps are placed on government proposals, any government and anyone who has formed it. Zero tolerance in the fight for crime and corruption should become and indeed become "Our Father" in each of our houses and there is the educational side of this SNS strategy and policy. There are some in this room laughing, laughing at the fight against corruption, laughing at that zero tolerance, or laughing at the pain of having the right and the opportunity to lead this country for 12 years, but unfortunately they nurtured corruption as the greatest value. The principle of accountability and the principle of efficiency are these fundamental changes in relation to the previous national strategy in the fight against corruption that did not have that note of responsibility and efficiency, and therefore we remained in the 80th place by corruption, unfortunately. Because in addition to the content papers, the significant shift that the new strategy brings is to establish the basis for a kind of system of responsibility for non-compliance with obligations and strategic documents, unlike the still valid 2005 strategy. Thus, it provides that the National Assembly will discuss, at a special session, the Agency's report, the implementation of the strategy, that it will hold a public debate on the review of the work of responsible shareholders of the action plan, and that the Government has an obligation to submit within six months a report to the National Assembly on the implementation of the conclusions of the National Assembly on the examination of the Agency's report. This is another principle of transitional domains that also apply to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which also applies to everything this Government of the Republic of Serbia does and is doing is a good shift. What this strategy also treats, which is that political parties are somehow leaders, either at the level of corruption in Serbia. The financing of republican and political parties under this strategy will be controlled by the DRI in the future and I cannot accept the fact that because of several unfair politicians, everyone who deals with politics, we are unfair, that because of some parties who may have received loans without pledges, that we have all received so and that all policy options are unfair. I simply cannot accept it and that is why it is good that the future independent regulatory body, such as the DRI, will deal with the control of the financing of political parties. The strategies also envision the establishment of effective co-operation and exchange of information between police, prosecutors, courts, and the establishment of a common database for corrupting crimes, which would make it easier for authorities to work against it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this strategy is a continuation of political will in the fight against corruption. This political will was liked by someone or not in this room, and I really don't care about it, the most important thing is that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia recognized it, that political will in the fight against crime and corruption has its own personality, has its own name and last name and last name is Aleksandar Vucic. The one who made, who took down the barrier, who took down the dam in that fight, that when any name comes from the business, politics, estrada, anything, there is no protected. Zero tolerance is not protected and the authorities need to carry out these investigations and investigations and judicial actions are doing so without any pressure. As far as the justice reform strategy, colleagues who spoke before me, spoke much more professionally. As you know, I am an engineer by profession, not a lawyer, and I am sure that lawyers will speak much better, as my colleague Cvian said, it is a good thing that this strategy as well as a national strategy in the fight against corruption was made and given in the assembly procedure, after a large public debate because the leg of competent people is both from abroad and from the professional domestic public. Their opinions have been implemented in both of these strategies. As far as the justice reform strategy is concerned, I believe it does not have a personal but professional, independent and independent dimension. I think that the judiciary also needs this strategy to mean that justice is reformed continuously, that judicial reform is not, if their judges are fired and our judges are accepted, it's not judicial reform, it's privatisation, politicisation of the judiciary, and we've seen the effects of the past period, and we've seen what we've seen and what kind of pucks we've received in the past, precisely because of this relationship to judicial reform. I think that this reform, or the reform strategy of the judiciary, is very successful and that in the previous period we have had one unsuccessful attempt, a disastrous attempt at reforming the judiciary, that it has implemented that we are a society in transition, as well as the most important point that justice reform is a continuous process and not a momentary one. It's a good thing this strategy is a general trial and represents an inventory of the situation in the judiciary and that, according to my modest assessment, it represents about 80 to 85% of the map of the road. In addition to the good news that we have received today from Brussels, which is deserved, not earned, deserved, in addition to the expectations of a really big job that awaits us in the future, not only in January but also in January, the Government of the Republic of Serbia with such documents and for which the SNS will stand at full capacity, indeed welcome negotiations for full membership in the EU, but also the continuation of further essential reforms of our society.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19787	According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19788	Since it is obvious that one moment Mr Babic spoke to me, noting that I am one of the MPs of the opposition who is here the only MP of the opposition who is in the hall, I am happy that he is even... (President: Excuse me, please, I meant Mrs Batic, but in principle, not related to it, but it cannot be a replica to Mr Babic. ) I asked for Article 104, you allowed Article 104. (President: No, it's okay to injure the Rules of Procedure, but you can't look for a replica within the Rules of Procedure. You asked for a replica and a breach of the Rules of Procedure? ) Yes, by Article 104, the replica is required. (President: All right, finish up, Mr. Mikovic.) ) Article 104, practically, defines the right to replication. That's why I asked for Article 104 to get my word. I'm happy that a number of SNS deputies are in the O.R., true, about 55 is not in the O.R. when these two national strategies are being discussed, but I hope that these tens will also transfer the rest of the parliamentary group to everything we discuss here. That's it. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19789	Mr. Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19790	I'm satisfied, my provocation from the beginning of my speech has brought fruit. Here, now we have a far larger number of representatives, from one to five. Great, I'm satisfied.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19791	Mr. Predrag Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19792	Thank you, Mr. President, but I'm shocked and I'm thinking whether or not I should use these seven minutes right now. Mr Babiću, you were created to think of an attending MP who sat across from you, predicting Mrs Batic, who is the representative of the opposition and who is here all the time, please, minding that he may not support the fight against corruption, I do not know anyone but the MPs of the various opposition parties in which you are sitting in the position where you are sitting now, watching, who are so magnificent, praised, worshiping the president of your party. You're not even on your knees to explain the grandeur of it, because it's possible that you called them, what does it look like? Mrs. Babic is here all the time. The one who doesn't see it, but who sees something else, has more reason to worry, because if he has to clear up those fine fine finesse tomorrow about whether it's corruption or not, and doesn't see such big differences, I'm sorry, I didn't want to offend you, Mr. Mikovic, but this is really almost on the verge of shock. Thank you all for letting me say this, and now let me say that I said all this because of it, I'm saying within the time, that even a little bit of the atmosphere is breaking down. I am convinced, because Mr Babic's speech before that was a very convincing speech on strategies, and I really thought maybe we shouldn't discuss it further today, but alone, and I'll just use it in this time of the parliamentary group, because the URS parliamentary group will certainly vote for both strategies, but it will vote once, for one strategy, once again. Citizens can be confused by listening to today's debate, because they are confident that some parties will vote twenty times. No, but it's a public speech. I must speak to you, Mr. Minister. Mr. President, are you allowed to praise the minister? I don't know if it's polite, I'm asking if it's allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19793	You know we don't practice it in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19794	I don't practice because I only do it on merit.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19795	Then it's okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19796	Thank you, this is for the atmosphere. Following the discussion with the greatest part, because it does not occur to me to underestimate the National Assembly and the MPs, this is often happening here, calling cards or presence in the hall, etc., this is fortunately the National Assembly of the modern, modern Republic of Serbia. All can depend on the work of others who perform for the congregation, whether at the same time in the O.R. or elsewhere. There's an internal television transmission. I followed, and for moments I was confused. I followed your presentation very convincingly first, and that's what I'm going to talk about, and in the meantime I followed the presentations of fellow Members of Parliament almost spontaneously on a few occasions to take the remote control into my hands and to change the channel, because I thought it wasn't the transfer of the Assembly, but it was the competition for the leaders, because the whole great speakers held the texts with precise quotes from your presentation, reading them at moments with understanding. Why am I saying this? I don't mind, it's all legitimate. I'm saying this because you clearly pointed out three key things, representing both strategies, education, prevention and the fact that, for the prevention of corruption and the efficiency of the judiciary, there are already left in documents and in strategies that should have only been seen whether they were compatible, so you removed it in the next period and you characterized the strategy that you represent, as the one that took care of the already adopted strategies, which in the previous period was not, as well as in those shortcomings in the everyday functioning of what was defined as corruption. You also started in the proposal and wrote down what the definition of corruption is. Now that you know the Assembly these years, the next time I feel like you're going to write a definition of what the strategy is, because a large number of MPs don't know what the strategy is, and it promises what's going to come out of this, and it won't. I want to highlight this personal note. I suppose on July 27th, I sat in my car but what I was doing and while I had the official one, because it proves whether you spend or don't spend money after a session of the Parliament where the Government was elected, passed on to a young man who walked in a black suit at 40 degrees and looked at it, in an attempt to accurately confirm the way from the Parliament to the Government to find him. I didn't tell you that, it was you, it's good for you. The next time I met you here, it was a great pleasure to help you in the way of the first presentation of a law, and thank you for giving me an adequate answer. In the meantime, the way you approach your work gives you a lot of confidence that you learn and share with others what you have learned and try to pass on. As a man who looks at these sessions these previous days and reports of agencies that have been paid today to do what I did on my own in 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 and I'm already running out of time, I'm going to finish, I realize that in the meantime I've seen some other things, so it's correct for me to tell you today and not someone else. You've reached that great level, stay on it. Don't say the sentences that you said at the end of today's presentation of your excellent. Do not act as a minister, who represents only the Government, which represents only part of the Assembly, to invite the National Assembly on behalf of the citizens, to do something about your proposal, because you have found exactly what Mr Babic said earlier, education, prevention, it involves the means of personnel and political will, but the political will also consists of whether there are funds and personnel, otherwise it is just political marketing. We're going to have to discuss this within my time of authorized representative, and now once again, thank you in the manner in which you presented the strategy, except for these sentences. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19797	Mr. Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19798	To Mr. Markovic's shock, I've had an even bigger shock. The vast political and parliamentary experience Mr. Markovic has, I don't think he allows him to recognize the opposition from a constructive opposition. I was very precise when I said that there was a member of the opposition, but I did not say constructive opposition, and I did not mention one representative of the constructive opposition, where I believe indeed, in addition to the enormous personal sympathy of my colleague Batic, according to her parliamentary work, her representation of political views, the idea of the political party and political options and the parliamentary group to which she belongs, but in any case she represents someone who is refreshing in this meeting, with their proposals that are very constructive and very healthy. That's why I made a big difference between the opposition and the constructive opposition, which belongs to Miss Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19799	Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19800	Thank you. Of course it's a replica, because it's personally mentioned. Please, when you acknowledge someone's enormous parliamentary experience, it's short-lived, then let him tell you something else from that experience. No opposition, no constructive opposition. Don't fall for it. Believe me, I had, from where Mr Stefanovic is today, the opposition in the number of Members of 146. There is one more important thing, and it is only, when it comes to MPs and their way of voting, whether the opposition is government or state, because it is a great challenge, because of ideology, that people are often opposition to the state, representing themselves as an opposition to the government. But it is also a great challenge for the authorities to accuse those who are currently not constructive, which does not mean they are destructive or, please, that they are an opposition to the state. It doesn't matter. It's Vidovdan today. It's that holiday that every year, every serious representative of the state and the church, is a beautiful day. Today has an additional reason, it's nice, but for that additional reason it was necessary to get a result that implies in previous years, it's always someone would have, for someone against, measured only the time he was in, so yesterday I reminded one MP that his party had voted an hour for one, an hour for another, convinced that it depends on whether the opposition was or not. Let's forget it for a moment, go back to the subject on the agenda. It's a nice day. Happy holiday, everybody.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19801	Replica, People's MP Olga Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19802	Don't worry. Since I've been mentioned here many times, it's my turn to say something. I have one proposal that on Monday, when the new session starts, I will suggest that, as one of the points of urgency, Olgica Batic be included, so that anyone who wants to comment should comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19803	I'm not saying there wouldn't be a majority here if it were adopted, but unfortunately the Constitution doesn't allow us, since the extraordinary sessions are predetermined, by the request of a number of MPs. Mr. Mikovic, you are the next registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19804	At first, I can only suggest that you make a deal, whether I'm an opposition, whether I'm an opposition, whether I'm a constructive opposition. I am pleased to be only a folk MP and to defend the interests of the citizens and to try to make my engagement in the National Assembly better for the citizens of Serbia. The fact is that Mr. Minister, at one point, given everything I've done in the National Assembly so far, he felt that I wasn't insinuating the state's efforts to make it better. Many of my colleagues from the DS parliamentary group are in the same business with me, to help Serbian citizens get better, to give good amendments and to discuss laws and other regulations and other acts discussed here to contribute. That is why I believe that it will be better for all of us and Serbia when we do not see who the position is, who the opposition is, who this party or that party is, but just as Mr Markovic said, that we are trying to set ourselves up as MPs, as the Constitution tells us. The fact is that today we are discussing two proposals for a national strategy, means a proposal for a national anti-corruption strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2013 to 2018 and a proposal for a national justice reform strategy for the period from 2013 to 2018. I would be much happier if this had all gone into the procedure, as provided for in Article 154, that is, as provided for by Articles 190 and 191. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Namely, the proposal for a declaration and resolution, recommendations and strategies may be submitted by the Constitution by the authorised legislator, and the proposal for an act referred to in Article 1 of this Article shall be submitted by the President of the National Assembly to the Members of Parliament and shall be subject to a single search. Article 191 - the procedure for the adoption of a declaration, resolution, recommendation and strategy shall be followed accordingly by the provisions of this Rules of Procedure on the procedure for the adoption of the law, unless otherwise specified by these Rules of Procedure. Article 154. The Rules of Procedure explicitly state that the draft law, hence the proposal for a strategy prepared in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, can be included in the agenda of the National Assembly, not less than 15 days from the date of its submission. This is one of my grudges, given that, as we were informed, a working group was formed on 3 January 2013, e.g. only on the judicial reform strategy, and the first working version is reportedly on 4 March 2013. I don't see why then, on March 4, or in some period, but in any case before 19 June, the proposal for a national justice reform strategy for the period from 2013 to 2018 did not come into the procedure, at least in early June. We had a situation that one group of MPs, 25 of us, who in any case have less resources than the Government and all those who worked to prepare these strategies, made an effort to have the same working version during January, and to release the motion for a resolution in the process in early March. Since early March, from March 8th to June 20th, how long has it been to vote? So, if we go on time, nothing is far, but if we let something go late in the process, and the fact is that these two national strategies were submitted to the National Assembly's office on June 20th, and today it's June 28th, less than 15 days, as foreseen by the Rules of Procedure for everything that goes according to the regular procedure. It is okay when we cannot know anything that needs to be done, to do it by emergency procedure, but by an urgent procedure, a law can be passed that regulates issues and relations resulting from circumstances that could not be foreseen, and the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, I think, and for a strategy, could cause adverse consequences for people's lives and health, the country's safety and the work of organs and organisations, as well as to comply with international obligations and comply with EU regulations. It's the only thing I see that makes me feel obliged to put this on the agenda. Here, today is June 28th, when we scheduled this session with this agenda point. If this was important in order to reach an adequate EU decision, I can understand those reasons in this regard. In any other case, it would be necessary for each draft law and strategy and for the proposal for any act under consideration by the National Assembly to arrive a little earlier. Just because we'd be in a situation where we can work in both plenary sessions and committees in an adequate way. Today we had a situation at the beginning of the debate that at the same time we should have been in two different places, and we MPs who are members of the Committee on Justice and all other MPs who want to participate in the work of the Committee on Justice and Mr Minister who has the same opportunity either he or his associates when amendments to the draft strategy are being discussed. At the same time Mr. Minister was speaking here in the plenary room, we listened to him who we wanted to hear if there was any oral supplementation of what he had in the written material, because it was useful to hear those who were at the source of the information. But we were denied to discuss in accordance, first of all, with obligations and with the rights provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In fact, every member of the board is obliged not only to participate in the plenary session and to attend the presentation of the minister, but also to participate in the committee's work. I think it's wrong and I'm suggesting that it's not happening to us in the next period. If possible, and there will be certain obligations on our international path, to make an effort to get materials into the congregation early, just so that we can adequately engage in the debate. Next, I can't talk about these documents in black or white, just looking from one rakurs, whether I'm attacking it or defending it? Each document should be discussed in a way where it is necessary to welcome those positive things and possibly point to certain shortcomings or indeterminateness. Here, first of all, I would like to commend the applicant of this material, i.e. representatives of the applicant and the Government and Mr. Minister Selakovic. To praise them for their self-critics. Because, on the other side of the strategy, it is said that no matter what is the responsibility of this government, it has been going on for almost a year, they have been very critical of what has been done so far or what has not been done and so said that the procedural laws have only been partially reformed. The prosecution's investigation didn't go through with it. A delay in the adoption of sublegal rules necessary for the application of the law, in addition to the criteria for the evaluation of the work of judges and public prosecutors and the criteria for the progress of judges and public prosecutors, the ethical code for public prosecutors. Then, shortcomings in the legal framework guaranteeing the independence of the judge and the independence of the public prosecutors, insufficient transparency of the work of the State Council of Prosecutors and the High Council of the judiciary, insufficient availability of regulations and court practice. I think that this lack of availability of regulations has been made an effort by adopting the Law on Publishing and I would not agree with that criticism. Access has been increased, at least legal frameworks have been created for greater availability of rules, the truth not and judicial practices, because certain suggestions on the possibility of the availability of judicial practice are also made possible for many others who are concerned with the protection of the interests and rights of citizens, as well as the insufficient participation of civil society in public consultations in the legislative process. It is good, when the executive power is aware and certain shortcomings that have not been made in the past, I am exactly expecting that the joint effort and the executive power and the National Assembly in the work where the appointment of the Assembly is needed in terms of the vote of law, to make an effort to do all that is not done to do. Because the end result of the strategy and not only the strategy, it is one important paper, the ultimate result should be to strengthen citizens' confidence in the legal institutions of the state and respect for them. Our goal is and I think it is good, again to say what is good in this strategy, which highlights certain principles and priorities in terms of independence, impartiality of the quality of justice, expertise, accountability and efficiency. However, I am not sure that, even in practice, the strategy declares that we are monitoring enough in terms of independence. I call upon anyone who is from a position, especially from the position of executive authority, to point a finger at anyone without asking the state authorities responsible for this to carry out their actions. We cannot, nor Mr Atlagic or any MP, point out whether we feel that someone is guilty, but that we should create conditions as MPs and executive rule as legislator, that the state authorities do their job, that they are independent of the individual attitude, whether they are the executive authority, whether there are representatives of the people in the National Assembly or whether there is a criminal act or illegal behaviour anywhere. Just when we create institutions that will work independently, when we stop in the tabloids first accusing, and then the state authorities do their jobs, then we can assume that we have fought for certain independence of the judiciary. On the one hand, we need to fight, as a society, against all negative phenomena in society, but I think the determination of someone's responsibility has ended only with a judicial verdict. We are coming into a situation and so far I have avoided talking about it, especially at the plenary session of the National Assembly, that certain institutes that exist in our judiciary in terms of the measures to ensure the smooth conduct of the criminal proceedings, I fear they are applied in a way that they can question the independence of the judiciary. Many of the processes that were published first in the media, and after practically being prosecuted, regardless of the alleged existence of certain evidence, are far from judgment, and there are still measures of deprivement of freedom for the alleged reason that someone will be inaccessible to the judicial authorities, i.e. that there is a risk of escape. Now I ask the question – is it possible that there is no danger of escape somewhere, and it is about very powerful people, rich people? On the other hand, there isn't a mechanism to secure presence and fear the escape of people who are university professors or lecturers at the university? In this regard, I want every negative phenomenon in society to be determined, that the issue of criminal responsibility is determined by judicial verdicts and that everyone is held accountable by certain judicial decisions. So, don't let it happen to us, I don't mean executive power, but I think of the whole state at all, that because of the potential lack of sufficient, I mean in transfer terms, insufficient immunity to certain influences of formal or informal, we are afraid that certain holders of judicial functions are afraid to decide by law. Detentions can't be a substitute for sanctions. Detentions can only be a means of uninterrupted criminal proceedings. In that sense, I believe that, in a certain way today, it should be mentioned in this debate without presupposing that something like that, other than finding itself, enters the strategy itself right now. I think we need to be aware of that. Furthermore, I think we should be aware that many obligations will await us on the way to European integration. Among other things, on the eighth page of the draft national judicial reform strategy for the period 2013-2018, it was concluded that certain amendments to the Constitution should be considered. I don't think we should be ashamed to talk about this openly. But I find it inadmissible that, if it is already in the strategy that individual definitions of this strategy require a change in the Constitution, at the same time we conclude that the strategy is in line with the current Constitution. The pieces aren't. If the parts aren't, then neither is the strategy. If we are determined according to the strategy, we should determine that most of the strategy is in accordance with the Constitution, and certain solutions that consider the strategy that may require a change in the Constitution. What are we doing right now? If we adopt a strategy and adopt a strategy in unchanged form, did we take the obligation to change the Constitution? Someone's going to say an insignificant thing. It's no big deal. It's a very important thing because we can't say right now – it's in accordance with the Constitution. Or, if we were in a position to get this strategy into a procedure sooner, to make a certain amendment and that what remains to be seen, to be done. I'm not saying it's bad. So, the exclusion of the National Assembly from the process of electing the President of the Courts, the Judges, the Public Prosecutor, the Deputy Prosecutor, members of the VSS, the State Council of Prosecutors, changes in the composition of the VSS, the State Council of Prosecutors, in the direction of disfellowshipping the President of the Legislative and Executive Authority and membership in these bodies, and I'm not saying that these are bad intentions, but it should in a certain way be singled out and it can only go in a situation where we change the Constitution and if in a certain, adequate manner, in the Constitution prescribed manner, there is a change. They're certain thoughts. We can agree that they're good, but if we're setting ourselves up as the National Assembly according to something whether it's in accordance with the Constitution or not, that's what we should have done. Just that we've been able to consider it for longer, that is, to be able to endure certain amendments, I think it could be done in a fair way, not be in a situation where tomorrow we're in a position to be called out to see if we've done everything right. I've got a few more things to get under. A lot of things are said about judges, about the independence of courts, about material conditions, about objects, about a lot of things, but we haven't said an adequate way except, let me say, creating general conditions for the functioning of the judiciary on administrative staff in courts. Because, in order for the courts to work well, to ensure the independence of the courts, in order for all of this to be right, we have to keep in mind the integrity of the entire system, without escorting the writers and administrative staff, the secretary and all those who run the various registers, who work on mail reception, expedition and all of that, it is impossible in a certain way to ensure that all of this is strategic, I can say, and in principle with good wishes set up and we have to take care of it. This is exactly my discussion going towards the operationalisation and the action plan, and here I am primarily addressing Mr. Minister, in terms of the action plan that should follow the implementation of this strategy, to pay particular attention because there is an action plan in the form of a particular draft, and after the adoption of the strategy, the Government will adopt an action plan. That's exactly where I think it's safe for us to forget about these things. Finally, with regard to the second strategy and this proposal for a national anti-corruption strategy in the Republic of Serbia, I will not do much about it, but I must say that by the MPs in the National Assembly, the need to reduce the risk of corruption is recognised. It has not been a week since the National Assembly of 133 votes in favour and only five against accepting that the objective of legislative policy must be to reduce the risk of corruption. This is foreseen by the National Assembly Resolution on Legislative Policy, and this has been taken over as a goal. There's no operationalizing left to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19805	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19806	Dear Mr. Stefanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, lucky we don't have bigger helicopters, so you couldn't all go to Gazimestan and catch a ride. Some five, six MPs of the ruling ruling coalition had to stay here today. Luckily, unfortunately, we don't have any bigger helicopters, but it's unfortunate that these girls who catch the stenographic notes and follow the session don't have an unfettered working experience, because when I hear stories that some MPs are talking about here, you know, it's not pleasant to listen to these stories at this age. At least there's a way to think about an underprivileged job internship. What can I tell you after all these discussions? What if you hadn't shown up? Where would this country be if you hadn't come to save us? The first fighters from the hard, to the moments and the bloody war, against Europe, the EU, against the bearers of these ideas, would now little to fight corruption, because you lost the battle against us who were for Europe and for the European idea, because you lost the battle against Europe, because you took down that for the purpose of your dirty uniforms and badges and replaced them for winning uniforms, for taking our policy, for accepting it, because in this fight against Europe, you kept acting, resisting, fighting, without doubt accounting with all those who were for Europe, calling them traitors, sold to souls or foreign mercenaries. Not to remind you of that time, because you swore in the church that you would persist consistently on the path against the policy that we have represented and led, and that you would never step away from that fight, which is why I do not believe in your consistency, which is why I do not believe in the consistency of your fight against corruption. You change politics in no time, something doesn't suit you, and you change. You always go where it's popular and where you get power. The power for you implies privileges, not responsibility. You're willing to give up everything just for the sake of power, every idea, every policy you've shown in your political biography. I listened very carefully. You spoke well, some of you read. What my colleague Markovic would say, at moments of fame, school, some and academic, with a clear emphasis and emphasis on important points. That was all nice to hear. That was pleasant to hear, pleasant to see as you see it declared, you dozens, fighting corruption. When we look at the words of all of you from the ruling coalition, I have to ask again – what would I do if you hadn't shown up? This really looks like that story I've already told, the one about the shipwreckers floating on ice for days hungry, exhausted and barefoot, lost all hope. One of them starts to rejoice - we're saved, we're saved, here comes the Titanic. Now you're offering us a ticket to Titanic, which is a big bump in the ice dream, and you're offering us the first cabin, the second cabin, you're handing out cards with a hat and a hand. You know what, I don't believe that story, and I can't accept that you're calling me on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, because the ministers in your government don't believe you either. How will you convince us from the opposition when you cannot convince your coalition partners of the sincerity of your intentions? This paper called the Anti-Corruption Strategy and your political action doesn't have much in common. Let's take a look at what's being said. Insufficient transparency of media ownership and the possibility of unauthorised influence on editorial policy, insufficient public participation in the legislative process and budgetary planning poses one of the risks to corruption. What does practice say now? The practice says party bulletins, such as daily newspapers, party newspapers, as daily newspapers, and Oliver Dulic was infused in Serbia, so the clocks were taken, the houses, the spaceships, the yachts, the islands. I think everything you could have invented at your party meetings, you recycled it and put it on the front page of your newsletters. Today, the Belgrade Court of Appeals abolished the Special Court's solution, which confirmed the indictment against former environment and spatial planning minister Oliver Dulic. I won't allow myself the luxury of commenting on the decisions of neither the Court of Appeal nor the Special Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime. I don't issue party papers, but I ask – who is funding these party votes? To what end do these tabloids destroy our political life, our reality, some people's families, lives? On behalf of which ideals and values came out text on the front page of a tabloid where it says – arrested co-worker Bojan Pajtic with 500,000 euros on the highway through Croatia, is seeking the status of a protected witness? We, as DS, address the Croatian Ministry of Interior and they say – never in the past year has any Serbian citizen been arrested in an illegal transfer of money through Croatia. Do you think someone in the tabloid apologized to Bojan Pajtic, that at least he said - I took 300 euros for this title, 500 euros, 1000 euros? No, it's important to glue, put the label on, and then go where my folks like it. We heard a speech like this today. In a short time, we managed to become a reliable partner to everyone, to tell the truth everywhere, to meet, not to lie and deceive anyone, and I think that fair approach to Serbia will bring results in the future. He said no one else to Alexander Wolfie. It wasn't exactly a short time. It took 23 years to get on that road, you know? He thinks it's a short time. His time begins from the moment he sat in the minister's chair again. He didn't remember that time when we who were for the EU were traitors and you patriots, he didn't remember to say -- wait till we see who was all killed by those people who stood up for the EU. Do you want me to take the turn here now? Today we should remember those people who are not with us – Dr Zoran Djindjic, Professor Vladan Batic, a wonderful man who burned. Today I am sorry, there is Mrs. Olgica Batic, he would be proud today, no matter what date we have an announcement, but it is still the crown of someone's political career, of someone's ideals. I have to ask again, when we're fighting corruption, I know there's gonna be a lot of problems and I don't want to scare you now that you're gonna stop, that you're scared and that you're uncomfortable that there might not be a date. Look around, don't get scared and don't hesitate. Proceed where you left off. It'll be a little cold for Vidovdan on January 14th in Serbia. Maybe the cold will fill out the empty cash register and slip through the state register, but it's a lot more spilling through the wallets. But you're not good with the calendar. Check it out like that aflatoxin meter. You don't like it, you have to draw a calendar according to your abilities. In this anti-corruption strategy, there is one part that the police say. I have to ask you -- why did the police take a trip to New Sad, and the gendarmes show up at Ada, then arrest themselves there? Why didn't they do the show-tactic work exercise at the Dunav Insurance Building, in Galenica, maybe Germany, in some public enterprises? That would be more interesting. First of all, we wouldn't have those marked ones, but we'd have the right people and we'd have something to arrest. Citizens would come to watch that, believe me. That wouldn't be without an audience. That's what you'd see. Again, I ask -- how do you think you're fighting corruption, if Tomislav Nikolic on that police landing says that the top of the police was involved in drug cartel affairs, that the drug cartel lined him up, and next to him is the minister, that is, the interior minister is standing? Right away, the Prime Minister will replace the Minister of the Interior. Tomorrow. Right away, Prime Minister, Prime Minister Ivica Dacic will replace Police Minister Ivica Dacic, if that's true. If it's not true, then let Wolf do it. He's in charge of security and I trust him. I believe in his intentions and the fight against crime. Now let him see if the drug cartels lined up the edge of Dacic or not. If that's true, let him take over. If not, let's move on. What to say about the anti-corruption strategy in the field of education. You say that it is no longer a practice for children and patients and interested individuals to wear a bottle of whiskey under the mouse, so when they go there – here's a bottle of whiskey. They're not. Now they're carrying 90 euros and buying a math test. The guy who gets 90 euros buys his own whiskey if he's up to whiskey. Serbian was cheaper, he said -- 50 euros was. There's whiskey for 50 euros. Tell Zarko Obradovic that he has a little influence on the school programme, especially on this Serbian language, to ask the question of which are eight Serb language declines, to be what: who – nominative, of which – genitative, so we have a generous, acoustic, vocal, and ultimately have the eighth drop of corruption – who and how much, to know once and for all how much the tests cost, which is the policy of this government. When are you going to change the Minister of Education? The moment you change it, then I will believe in this paper called the Anti-Corruption Strategy. As long as the tests are sold for 90 euros, it'll be your mirror. You can hit the clock with all your voice, to be that – it's being made known, Pera, Djok, Žika, Mika is being arrested, we'll judge him there next year when the date arrives. The fundamental fight against corruption is not carried out in rhetoric, words, but works. The works are lagging here. I say, it is easy to determine how much the text in mathematics and Serbian is, but it is difficult to determine how much asphalt costs in the municipality of Gornji Milanovac. It is difficult to ask now Minister Mrkonjic – how much did Ana Bekuta take for the concert in Gornji Milanovac? The answer came today, to the basis of an independent institution that we all praised yesterday, the Commissioner for Public Information says – in a response signed by Deputy President of the Municipality of Miroslav Milanovic, it is said that the company "Brojanica", owned by Ana Bekuta, for the amount of 780,234 dinars plus VAT of 20%, which is a total of 936,218 dinars, organized concerts and therefore added 115,000 dinars to the amount for the stage and sounding. Then we figure out how long it takes for a municipality to pay for an asphalt from the Ministry of Infrastructure. After that, the ministry will charge us VAT through a toll increase, because they have huge losses in travel companies, all of them citizens will pay through the game and song. Everyone's going to sing "Vidovdan." What about justice? I won't talk much about corruption in the judiciary. I have certain sympathy for you, Mr Selakovic, and for your efforts to arrange an important segment of our society, despite the fact that these 650 judges did not return the SNS membership cards. I have no problem with your party's high-ranking officials going to Central Prison and meeting with persons for organised crime, either as lawyers or as MPs, either as presidents or representatives of the prison's board of inquiry. I know some inmates have trouble maintaining prison sentences. I've been in prison about 40 times myself at a time when I stood up for a European idea and when these guys tripped me and called me a traitor for being in prison. Some there and strike hunger, I guess they're getting used to life on the loose, others waiting for visits. We have a fight against corruption that began by President Nikolic pardoning a person convicted of taking bribes from the Ribarska Bana, Dr Inic. What kind of message do we send to cops, prosecutors and judges? You arrest them, you do your job, and they'll find out who's gonna pardon them. Only if his wife's in SNS, then she can expect a pardon. If he didn't, let him join, maybe he'll be pardoned. The work of these working groups and these officers is being thought out. The corruption that exists at the moment in all segments of society can be curbed by the organized efforts of the entire society, both the authorities and the opposition. The corruption that exists at the moment when building permits are shared can be curbed, ineffectiveness in the construction of roads. When I look at how this Corridor 10 is built, it's like Skadar on the Colour. (National Ambassador Veroljub Arsic throws out of place) We are not in power, sir. This isn't your farm. Here, a year of your government, you took responsibility for the country's management. If you don't know how Shkodra ended up on the Bojana – a girl on the ground, ride some minister, at least along the way, in some room four with four, with bars, with a window, on Corridor 10, I guess it'll work faster, maybe he'll come after us. In September you said it will be in October. In October, it will be in November. In November -- it will be in January. You actually need that Billy Pitton from the Marathons, you're always running around in honor. You need someone to tell me -- I don't want you to lie to me, what's my share, when's the date. Don't be afraid. Don't stop. Don't let him waver at you for giving you a lot without getting what you expected. It's not your first time to be fooled. You're good-looking for fraud, you're good-looking for them. But don't let Serbia be deceived because of you, because of your naiveness, intricacies, ignorance and inability to lead this country. Serbia has no time to wait. Serbia has waited long enough, 23 years for you to come to your senses and realize that you are not going to Europe via Karlobag, Ogulin, Karlovac and Virovitica, but are going to Europe via Nikola Tesla Airport, without visas, as you are now traveling. In the end, I have to tell you that we as DS cannot support what is declared by us. We can support what's essential. We can support all of your efforts to deal honestly with organized crime. We can't support you in this hack that some people are carrying out through uncontrollable control of some media. The biggest corruption is corruption that happens in the media. Heik to DS leader, to DS President Dragan Gilas, to DS, to Honorary DS President Boris Tadic, through the media with a national frequency that persistently, every day, performs a constant hack, deluding the public, saying whatever their will is, broadcasting any fiction, without any control, without any possibility of being restrained. You know, there's always, in all times, the boss's dogs that when the boss says, bite, they bite. They never used poodles for that job, though. You were used for decorations. Even when they grow up, they look like Bob Teyla, with those spikes, when you turn around in front of the screen and they start calling themselves "Dear Gicky." They'll defend DS against those and those. We'll build a decent society. Along with you. Unfortunately, or fortunately, we don't have others next to ourselves. There is no one else in this country to make this country a decent country, but we, elected by the citizens. And unfortunately, as we are, smart, stupid, lazy, we are the mirror of the time we live in. I have no one else to make this country better, more decent, I have to look into these MP benches and everything you want to do well, I have to help you and expect you help when you're in opposition tomorrow. I expect assistance in all those local self-governments where we are together in power, to work together, where you are the opposition, to be a constructive opposition. Because you're not all over the place, there's local self-government where you're in opposition. I expect you, along with all the progressive forces of this society, to continue to endure in this idea of the path to Europe, not because someone there will give us something, but because we want to accept the system of values that exists, to make Serbia a decent civil society that will be much better in the future, where there will be much better MPs than we are now, where the people who are not burdened with neither the past nor the ideology nor the ideologies, will already have only one interest called Serbia. By believing that we're going to build such a Serbia together, I'm telling you again, don't be afraid and give up now that we're maybe at home. If new obstacles arise, remove them boldly, quickly, energetically, and do not look back to see where we are. We are always behind your back to control whether you are doing this job well, fast, efficient, fair, responsible, in accordance with the oath you made to the RS Constitution. So don't insult the people of the DS, because the biggest robbery that's happened in the past 20 years is stealing and robbing the DS program. But we won't judge you for that. We support you to continue to carry him out so well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19807	Replica, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19808	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I've had to pinch myself more than once to see if I'm dreaming or if this is really happening. The previous speaker would be an excellent writer, but science fiction. I think such discussions inspired... I tried to write down all the nonsense and lies that were told. But believe me, he was faster than I was. I wasn't able to do that. I'll try to answer a few things. Since the subject of corruption is, I call on the minister to respond – is it corruption that you have two students in one school, the prize is a laptop, and one of the parents of that student is a committee member at SO Golubac, where the current strength ratio is 16 to 15. They pressured the school director and the school board to keep the DS in power in the municipality of Golubac and that, God forbid, Mom and Dad's kid would get a laptop. So much for corruption when it comes to DS. It's a small case. Who's what and who's been robbing enough is the fact itself -- in two banks, 600m euros. That's what the citizens of Serbia return. When it comes to Corridor 10, from 2011 to 2012, it was built 9.6 kilometers during your government, and only this year it was built 20 kilometers and so much will be done by the end of the year. You can't make a way. And that road you made towards the EU was a blind road. As I recall, you promised the citizens of Serbia the EU when you came to power by burning this assembly. You promised to join the EU in 2012, and now it's 2013. Don't teach us the European way. Whatever you could have done, you ruined it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19809	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19810	Just for the sake of our citizens, when we came and took responsibility to manage this country, when we entered this Assembly, which was set on fire by the State Security Service so that we wouldn't find sacks of counterfeit ballots, which are evidence of the electoral theft committed by the then government, in which you sat as Serbian radicals, therefore, only for the sake of truth, when we took responsibility for the management of this country, we found a country with sanctions, visas and excommunicated from international organisations. We returned Serbia to international organisations, to the OSCE, opened negotiations and abolished visas. What do you think they gave us visas? Is it because I'm Srdjan Milivojevic from Kruševec, so I have shoes number 42, or because there were some people here who were propagating politics rusty spoons and dealings with members of those people who were just fighting for that European idea? Why do you think we had those sanctions? Did we have those sanctions for Zoran Djindjic, for Boris Tadic or for Dragan Gilas? When you come home, you stand in front of the mirror and you say - I know who we had sanctions for, I remember him, I'm sorry if he wasn't who he was, if he was nicer, better and smarter, if he wanted to listen, now Serbia would have come this way, which Slovenia has come to, as someone said, six years from now, in six months. She'd already be where she wants to go. I'm sorry, Serbian citizens, for spending the best years of your life. Here, today on Vidovdan I stand in front of this mirror, and I wonder if it ever comes to me in the dream of Prince Lazarus? Did this prince Lazar ask: "Is there a White Church self-sufficient to honor the army before the Kosovo battle? ". Whose sheep do you have on Gazimestan? Who turns the Decana port into a parking lot for NATO tanks? When you answer all these questions, you'll realize how right we are.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19811	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19812	I think my colleague just moved on. He obviously forgot that I was in the SRS in 2000, but we admitted victory, though not in the first round, Vojislav Kostunica. I wasn't standing outside this building. I was in the firehouse. It was you. Don't accuse people and say that the State Security Service allegedly burned down. What would you turn on? Hide the result? Apparently, part of the furniture's gone, too. I'll also try to answer some of the questions that you asked in the previous discussion in these two minutes, before it was five when I became an MP, and you cut it short every time it suits you. What about Serbia if it wasn't for us and we didn't beat you? You'd ruin it. She'd be gone. Don't kid yourself. You're talking about the empty cash register he's going through. Well, I didn't empty it, and no one from the SNS, it was emptyed by your party colleagues, and it was warmly, successfully, unitedly. We're talking about corruption. How come one of your high-ranking officials shows up? I know, I remember him in 2004 when he was an MP, and he didn't have a decent suit, and now he's one of the richest people in India. You know who I mean? On your regional agriculture secretary. Not only in India, he is one of the richest people, but also in Serbia. You stole the stock reserves, and that's a little bit. I don't know what's left. Excuse me, we won the last battles against you and you have no right and a monopoly on the EU. Get that out of your head.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19813	Mr Milivojevic called for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19814	Don't talk like that about your current coalition partners, it's not nice. If you're having any disagreements with the SPS, it's you at the government's sessions. I have to tell you again, to repeat to remember better. European integration means that your self-centerism that you express in your views, that you are the best, the smartest, that you are always right, that you reduce it a little bit, and that you see yourself in the context of a small, undeveloped and poor country, which is just such, small, poor and undeveloped, because of your policy of persistent rejection of European values. She's small because she became small during your previous conduct of power, which in our case raises suspicion and skepticism in the ability to preserve her and not be any less when you leave the chair. Then remind yourself that European ideas and European values require that this self-centerism – we are the best, the smartest, the most beautiful, reduce and remember that the apriors rejected this European idea and the bearers of these ideas in a senseless way, not afraid to prophesy and death, such as Zoran Djindjic, with a sentence: "Tito had problems with his leg before his death". Then when you absorb it all, overcome it, when you fill that void and the black hole in your painful memory, then turn your pathways towards Europe and always remember that you can trip on that path and go back from which we barely came back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19815	The replica was reported by MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19816	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not answering any more replicas. Apparently, my colleague is very poetic. As I said, Serbia is now in safe hands, Serbian citizens no longer have to worry about their future. It's Vidovday, holiday. One of my colleagues said it was a holiday of joy, and I say it's a holiday of sorrow. We may have reason for today's first time after 724 years to have a little hope for that day, but I can also tell the previous speaker that every government will come to an end. Some of your ministers and directors were unaware of it and are now being prosecuted by the competent state authorities. The end of the government will come one day and the SNS, but there is one problem – you will not sit in that room where you are sitting and watching.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19817	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19818	And here I am going to finish, not exactly poetic, but, if you'll excuse me, promenade for the end of this replica cycle with you. Mesa Selimovic "The Fortress" says – can a man so completely put his conscience to sleep, can he interrupt the thought as a thread and ban himself from thinking about the consequences of his actions, not wanting to know about them? Well, it looks like it can. The urge protects you with complete forgetfulness, to save you from torture for responsibility, and responsibility for your effect is enormous and equal responsibility because of your ineffectiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19819	The word is Mr. Risticevic, in order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19820	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, listening to all the predecessors of the speakers, I'm surprised. I am not offended, given that the work of the capacity of the previous speaker, but I wondered if the previous 10-12 years had been ruled by Martians and not only in the last 10-12 years, but was it in the 1990s by Slobodan Milosevic's Democratic Party? Was Mr. Perisic a government minister back in the '90s, before radicals made an alliance with Milosevic? Were there democratic ministers in the republican government? As I recall, and I have a good memory, and I have no selective memory, and I have no limited memory, and I am not involved with this Parliament as some, therefore, as I remember it well, and I remember it well. So everything attributed to this moment has been done to us in the past 12 years, and in the 1990s, the government of the party that says it is the Democratic Party. The party is no longer democratic, the party is simply called that. I have nothing against DS, I have against what she's become. It has nothing to do with the policy of Zoran Djindjic, who I voted for to be prime minister, not the previous speaker, was watching it from the gallery, as I have nothing against what kind of badges he carries. I'm against it that wearing badges is paid from abroad, and it's thick, that wearing badges means and corresponding services to whoever pays you today we listen to these moral lessons and I wonder – who's going to do it politely, as politely advanced society has said. How many years did it take to make a decent company? What state did we find when we arrived? Completely torn, devastated, with abandoned infrastructure, with 500,000 fewer workers than in 2002, when I left DOS, with debts that grew five or six times. Is that the collapse that was so ghastly, so fast, so terrible, that we stopped, should we be responsible for stopping the collapse or should we be responsible for those who made it possible? There's been a lot of noise here, but there's only one thing I can say is that when I came here after nine years, I didn't find a country in this country anymore. There was nothing from the state in this country. There was at least a state in this country. We found frightened judges, fired workers, failed businesses, privatization robbed, privatisation was not privatization but prevatisation, which the eye sees the left hand pays in the right pocket, they've made the privatization, and now we're listening to those moral lessons. How long are we going to listen and who are we listening from? Let's go in order, because it's corruption, and I want it because the minister of justice is here, so we can all work together and explore how corrupt the Ada bridge is spent 500 million euros? Imagine a group of people who instead of building a bridge, like all of us would do in their own house, if they were to cross a barrier, they'd make it where it's cheapest and shortest. They wouldn't make it where it's the longest and most expensive, but the bridge, look at the wonders, was built where it's the most expensive. Was there corruption there? Five hundred million euros has cost the bridge so far, connecting two local communities, and there are high prospects for it to become operational and I will now say what its function is. It's long and tall, but he only served to translate the thirsty across the water one night. He was long enough to walk as long as he could, to be as thirsty as possible, and he was tall as possible to those who were sick of their authority, he was so high that when they jumped, there was no chance of survival. That is why he was only tall and was long enough to translate the thirsty across the water for days in a three - percent campaign led by that group. For that money, we could have built ten functional bridges in Belgrade, but Belgrade is in charge of 800,000m euros. We still need one billion to finish it. When they emptied all the state, city and local cashiers, then their current boss -- three percent, got a wallet out on his brain and decided to shift his own boss, but he didn't know that after his own boss's shift, that the money that went missing from the state register would be seen in years when everyone was poor, he was incometing to his companies, where the owner, co-owner of $937 million. That was until 2012. I believe he's become a billionaire. We got millions of poor people, but we got a few multimillionaires that became very rich at the expense of the poor. Today I can't get rid of delegations, "Kongrapa", PKB Dobanovci, "Stava", "Surdula Cave", AD Gajdobra, "Centrosrem" of Stara Paz, so these are all victims of the so-called "Centrosrem". transitions, I would say, the victims of the group -- three percent, which was the political wing of organised crime. Today we're listening to sermons from that direction and I can hardly believe who's criticizing us for their mistakes. They can't forgive us for their mistakes, and most likely they can't forgive themselves for losing power. What my colleague Atlagic says – a joint criminal enterprise against the economy. For the bridge on Adi, I would make in 350,000 land, for a bridge that was spent and that would be spent to function, in 350 thousand landowners made an additional social product ten thousand euros to land. So, I get cattle, cows, there's no investments or imports, and there's no more than 350,000 landlords to raise their livestock production by 10,000 euros, and we could have spent that money we spent in a pile of concrete, and that doesn't serve a lot of iron, that we spent it in livestock, we could have spent three and a half billion dollars of GDP every year. However, the party's three posts before us decided otherwise. Here is the minister talking about privatisation, if anyone remembers the sugarcane three times three euros. Is that corruption? Let's mention one. It was Blacksmith, Butch, Caves. Come on, here's one. On the day the state sold it for such expensive money, a three-euro piece of sugar in Kovacica had threem euros in the account. You give three euros, you get three million. She had 600 hectares and a complete mechanism for producing and extracting sugar tail and all of this went away for three euros. It's not the end, before they only got the preferences they had eight meters of sugar in their silo, each centimetre is 16.7 tons. In total, the silo was, I ask if it was corruption, given that it was DS's financial director at that time, whether it was corruption, whether it was a return for the credit that brought them to power, at that time it was worth eightm euros. Eight million in sugar, three million euros in money, 500 hectares in money, machinery, means everything is worth about 30m euros and all for three euros. All these privatisations, that I'm a little more power, that my little People's Peasant Party is a little bigger, all those tycoons who've had a nice summer and had a good time, they've been convex with the authorities then, so those who were with them and saw how nice it was to be a tycoon, so their boss became a tycoon himself. So, at the time they took it like that, I would give them back everything they gave to the state, and return everything they took away from the state. I think the accounts in the party would be very serious if they did that to me. Furthermore, what should we say at the end of their term of office? The minister mentioned a cadastre. I recently asked a parliamentary question, along the highway along the same tycoon, formerly the financial director of DS, his party in Indjia, in addition to the highway, replaced, gave state land of 101 hectares along the highway and publicly equipped him, and then bought the same property from the municipalities. Is that corruption? And, look at the wonders, the former financial director of DS, the one who has a 28 million yacht, so the one who got three sugars per three euros at the beginning of their government, at the end of their reign gets a 101 hectare communally equipped industrial zone worth 30 million euros, and it was replaced by land, of course illegal, gave there... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I'm sorry. He thinks it's time to stop, to pass laws, to do everything, a strategy okay, to stop robbing the poor, that no one after them can take away from the poor to give to the rich and to return the state to its people, who have been brutally ripped out of their hands in the last 10 years, to bring that country back to its rightful owner, to return it to the people they have, as they said would lead them to golden spoons, only to empty plates and folk cuisine. We must bring these strategies, we must restore honor and dignity to this people.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19821	National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19822	No, I'm not gonna use a replica. I have the time of my authorised representative, and I have the time of the parliamentary group. No, Srdjan Milivojevic has been authorized, you can inform yourself, be at the assembly session during the day, do not give us lectures as we are not here without sitting here alone. If you had read it here, you would have known. So, I am a graduate farming engineer and as such, I'm an expert on these "farms." I'm not such an expert on agriculture, though, that I know how to assess whether there's an egg seal counterfeiting in the livestock area, but is there a counterfeiting of the potato stamp in the field of warfare? That's what the court will determine, I won't. In the past, agricultural producers tried to have honest, honest, and honest responsible people for their leaders, and they took the lead in many rural movements, and so it has been from time to time. In the first Serbian uprising, the most frequent Dukes of the First Serbian Uprising were peasants, serious hosts. In World War I, the greatest heroes, bearers of Karadjordje's star, Albanian monuments, the Golden Obilic's medals for courage, were our peasants. Thank the Lord God today, the strength of economic Serbia rests in the Serbian village and Serbian agriculture. I do remember these peasant leaders in these areas, but the tycoon was never the leader of the peasants, never a man who had hundreds of acres of land could lead the peasants and talk about fighting corruption. Never was a man responsible for falsifying the seals able and the suspect of falsifying the seals could have shared lessons better than himself. It simply in a society that holds to moral norms couldn't happen, and it calls DS three percent, and it takes 15% itself, and it knows that its party calls 15%, but not because it conquers 15%, but because it takes 15%. It wasn't 15% received in beautiful eyes, but probably as a fruit of corruption, but the truth works, never before did the DS people participate in the work of the government of Slobodan Milosevic, Mirko Marjanovic. Whoever wanted to enter that government and support it, was expelled from the DS, just as all those who had shamed that idea, some among the first, some among the last, depended when they bowed down to temptations, some of them dirtyed it, but when some call today the Resistance, it's much more honorable to bring money to the country than to bring it out of the country. It is much more honorable in the government of the Republic of Serbia to go with Zoran Djindjic than with a donkey. Here's to remind you of the text of August 19th 2005 – "Police don't let donkeys into the government". He says, a man led a donkey to the government, called "Young One", in the middle went the donkey, left the president of the Peasant Party, right the same, leader in the middle, and then came to the cordon of 50 cops, and the donkey was dressed in a canvas with the inscription "Expert Plus" and riveted with pink bow and flower. I am glad that this is a stable programme coalition finally showed its true face, that the citizens of Serbia know that you have opinions about each other. One of you is showing a prison suit, other donkeys and taking donkeys named "Expert Plus" to the government building, and then after all these words, turkey dots don't work, apologize nicely, and that's how it works. Now that little bit more serious part, what kind of land did you inherit? You didn't inherit, the only country you could inherit, that's her of your parents, and everyone inherited what's left in his will, but the government doesn't inherit. Serbia is not a monarchy, neither parliamentary, nor feudal, despite some having 100 hectares of feuds. Serbia is without it a serious republic, a serious state, as much as some who sit in parliament try not to be there, no matter how hard they try to defile and dirty all the institutions of this country. So, when we inherited the state administration after October 5th, when this hall was set on fire here, so as not to bring out sacks of counterfeit ballots, when resistance heroes and disgruntled citizens came in and faced smoke, we faced a single question – where in that serious state is the president of the former Republic, Ivan Stambolic? We found it on Frusch Mountain. We wondered where Slavko Curuvija was with us, he raised a banner of resistance with us, we found him killed in an entrance to Svetogorska Street on the Big Friday. It's never been determined who killed him, unfortunately. It has been determined who killed Ivan Stambolic, who was the taskmaster, in the verdict and they say, the minister of justice can refresh your memory of those who have forgotten, as has been discovered and who tried the assassination of Vuk Draskovic, and some say unsuccessful. A successful assassination, four of his associates died, a conviction handed down to his superiors. In 2012, you may have inherited such or such a register, one or another state, but you did not inherit a full cemetery. You didn't inherit the refugee columns, you didn't inherit what, misery and misfortune. You didn't inherit the heroes of lost wars, maimed in the kosharam, you didn't inherit unsolved political murders, you didn't inherit a power that had a death squadron, where a man in a police uniform, a Special Operations Unit, is waiting for you on the counter, and he says, "killing your political opponent costs so much." You didn't inherit that from us, you're with those in the coalition today. Look left and right, the composition of that government and current coalition partners. You didn't inherit your failed privatisation from us. You know what failed privatisation is the biggest? The one you're most ashamed of, so you look at the floor when I talk about it. Do you know what was privatized before October 5th? "Telecom" for a billion marks was sold to win the election and to have someone operate their ears, to perform a plastic ear surgery for that money, and you're probably proud of that. You're ashamed of this one. Don't give up on the government of Zoran Djindjic, it should be the brightest piece of information in your biography, much brighter than this walk with a donkey to a government building called "Young One". You should be ashamed of that. You should be ashamed of this seal on egg and potato, you shouldn't point it out in your biography, but to brag about, say, I was in the Assembly when Zoran Djindjic exhibited his exposés. I was when he said the words of history: "Who is tired, let him go home to sleep," and be proud of what you have heard. That's what you're talking to your grandkids about. I wish you good health and peace of mind, that now that you come home you say, yes, I was with Zoran Djindjic in the coalition, I listened to him, and now I'm in a coalition with whoever stood on the stage and said, "If anyone sees Zoran Djindjic these days, let him tell him that Tito had problems before his death with his leg." Don't tell your grandchildren that. That's your conscience. Because that moment will come for each of us in life, when will our grandchildren come, our generations, to ask us what happened in Serbia in 2000, and what did you do then? What happened in 1999 and what in 2003 and what in 2013? We will not be ashamed of any of our statements, moves, statements, we will be proud of what the Democratic Party has done. We insist, consistently with our policies, you had 3%, 5%, 50%, don't just forget that in 2003, when Djindjic was killed, you thought you'd destroy us, and you brought us down to 8%. You were declared by Boris Tadic in the presidential elections that spring, so four years later again. So don't forget that, and don't underestimate the power of the Democratic Party, or the intelligence of the people sitting here and the memory of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19823	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19824	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 107 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Chairman, you had to warn a colleague from the Democratic Party because he accused the maltenes of being ruled by people who were genocide, war criminals, destroying their people. I really admire the inspiration and the poetic mood of my dear colleague, but I'm going to ask a few questions. What about the fire MIT, what about the fireball, what about the FAP, what about the Dragon? You talk and boast about how big a farmer you are, and during your government, our cattle stock has been ruined. The institutions involved in the production of hybrid varieties have been ruined. (President: Just tell me a member of the Rules of Procedure. ) Article 107, I said at the beginning. (President: My mistake, I didn't hear. Please speak to me. And those big praises. Perhaps Mr Tomislav Nikolic lost twice to Boris Tadic, but I know one thing, Boris Tadic will never be able to beat Tomislav Nikolic again.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19825	The reply was requested by MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19826	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, about the seal and some suspicions that I may have falsified something. I'm asking my colleague to take it out of the assembly booth and show his famous mouse his courage, so he can take it out somewhere, so I can sue him. The only suspicion she raised was their television, and it was out of revenge, because I was researching the stock reserves and I found what I found. So, to my insistence, that control showed these results, and this alleged house under the control of this former financial director of the Democratic Party allegedly found some kind of certificate that referred to some farmers, who were trading with my wife. Furthermore, I only have 15 acres of land, no 300. I rented three hundred from you, and I paid the state rent, and from there you were paid, and you were an MP, and I was just a poor peasant, and I'm proud that as a farmer, I helped keep the company as stable and that some pensioners and others were receiving a pension. So my father and I have 15 acres together. We were not members of the Democratic Party, so we did not get 600 for three euros. Furthermore, you honor me, I am proud to vote for the government of Zoran Djindjic, and when he said "do not sleep", he pointed his hand to the gallery where you were. As for this assembly and the burning of ballots, I don't know why you were saving furniture, expensive paintings, expensive pieces of furniture, and you weren't saving ballots. To whom it was in favour of burning the ballot, and saving the furniture and bringing it in private, it was not collected until today. As for Stambolic's murders and attempts at Draskovic, at the time I was in the Serbian Parliament and all those around me who were once MPs knew very well how I acted and didn't have that famous mouse of courage that some of you are now honoring. So I'm on the line to which none of you should have come out on the line. You escaped from the congregation, you left the three of us alone. So I voted against the government's conclusions, voted against the resolution of Ahtisaari-Chernomidin later, and dealt with them with them honestly and honestly. As for the donkey in the end, I end up bringing him out of protest against the agricultural policy you've been leading. I didn't call him at all, he was called a journalist, but I'll call him after you, not wanting to insult him.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19827	Please don't, Mr. Risticevic. The word has Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19828	Thank you. Right to replication based on the mention of the programme coalition. The Serbian Progressive Party is the dominant and largest in the programme coalition run by the government of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party is the first in many quality reformist things in Serbia. There's something I have to admit that we're not the first, and that's reconciliation. First, in 2008, some others, others who took off their jackets, returned their sleeves on their shirts, played basketball instead of working behind that reconciliation in the interests of Serbian citizens, and then it was good. At the time, they were not squadrons of death, they were not men of the 1990s, they were others because they recovered their sleeves and played basketball with Boris Tadic. Then, when the Serbian Progressive Party gathers around the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, about the national interests, and these national interests, the bodywork and the effect we have received today, it is a disaster. With which right, only one side has the right to a beautiful thing called reconciliation. Reconciliation is good, we need reconciliation for the future, for the state. On the other hand, I am left truly unspeakable, unspeakable, confused, the SNS has been accused of being inconsistencies, changing attitudes. We didn't show it. But I heard one thing about the previous speaker, and I don't mean Mr. Risticevic, he described Serbia as an ice dream, hungry people on an ice dream. I'm not saying that people in Serbia live well, and then, as one said, saw and said -- hey, here we are saved, here's Titanic. The government of the Republic of Serbia points to a ship, we're boarding that ship. The ship's name is not Titanic, it's called the EU, it has a very beautiful sign with many stars, but this is what you said inconsistencies, because you, because the Democratic Party of the EU sees it as a Titanic. It's inconsistency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, which showed an alienation just now through the words of the authorized Democratic Party representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19829	Replica Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19830	I would ask our distinguished ladies who keep stenographic notes, the minutes, to enter the record, that in no word, when I spoke of the forged seal, I didn't mention Marijan Risticevic, I didn't even look at him, but he recognized himself. Please put it in the record, so it stays signed up to be recognized here and that's what it says about him, not me. As for this dream of summer and Titanic, you did not listen very carefully. Next time, please take notes. So, the Titanic is not Serbia or the EU, but the SNS and here you share cards for the first, second, third class, first level, 15 level, whether you are on the Titanic, on the first or second deck, whether you are in the extra class cabin, if there is no lifeboat. Don't worry, we'll give you a hand of salvation when it's most difficult for you, not to make peace with you, and once and for all, your former party president, and now our President, Tomislav Nikolic, always wants to calm Serbia, Karadjorđevci with the Obrenovics, brushes with the partisans, us and you, and you're always putting the wheels in his wheels. It's time for us once and for all to stop leaning over that Balkan sink and looking at ourselves in that bloody pool and counting who's what, how many, how many, and how many, and how many, and how many, and how many, and how many, and how many, and how many, and how many, and how many, and how many, and how many, and how many, and how many? Not now, it bothers my fellow Arsic, to read here "The Dagger" from Matija Beckovic to see what we Serbs are like. There's no need. We all need to apologize. Finally, someone said I wouldn't be sitting here in the O.R. I don't know if I'm gonna sit or not in this room, but I'm sure in about 10 or 12 years, someone better than us will be sitting here. Ljuban Panic is certainly his generation. He'll have much less tension and passion to communicate with it across the street, from the SNS. I wish you good health, that the longer you sit in those benches, as an opposition, as a position and as long as you are served good health, that you never go up to the balcony, that you follow Serbia's progress from there. I want it as a Serb, not because of you, not because of the DS, not because of the SNS, I want it on Vidovdan because of Serbia. So I wish you good health, clear reason and a firm hand that will lead you to Europe. But with a firm hand, I wish you clean hands and a clean conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19831	Mr. Risticevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19832	He'll say again that he didn't mention me, but those who follow the session know well, after every speech I've spoken, alluds to some alleged suspicion of being adopted by me. I'm calling him again, if he's alluding to me, now he's saying that I recognized myself, if he means me, to show that mouse his courage and get out of the O.R., and he's clearly saying that, as I say to him. He said a lot of things here. He spoke after my speech to sit with people responsible for the assassination of Draskovic and Djindjic. Djindjic was killed during the time I had no one in the government, when I supported that government. But he was killed by government officials, M.O.P. officers. So, the ones who got paid out of the budget. So to those led by the ministers at the time, the prime minister himself. Should I remind you that this unit was visited by a senior delegation of the party, just those very years? If someone is responsible for this, well, I guess someone who ruled for two and a few years by then has been responsible and failed to implement any reform and has allowed the Prime Minister, whom I voted for, to kill in front of the disfellowshipped cameras, at the door of the government, and I have in no way taken part in it, and no colleagues around me, to kill him by the official of that same government, therefore, high-ranking service officer. Also, if anyone thinks I have amnesia. Unlike some of my colleagues, I don't. I think the previous speaker is the most he spoke of, spoke of himself, and that his merits are going towards the fact that it's no longer 3%, by the year it's going to be 2%. I advise him to change his profession and try next time, not to poison people with the food he prepares. It is my responsibility to tell you that he has caused mass poisoning in Kruševec with his burgers, with his kebabs... (President: Don't do that, Mr. Risticevic.) There's no point in getting into personal content. I apologize for being so personal. I just wanted to say so much, that unlike him, I'm responsible when I say something, claim a name and a last name and say who that applies to. (President: Anyway, time's up. So everything the gentleman said, it's not his fault, it's the inclusion. There are those who fall behind, and then they join up later. If he had been at the beginning of Parliament, I don't think this would have happened. Therefore, I believe that the inclusion in the future, at least in parliament, should be carried out very carefully, so as not to have problems like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19833	Mr. Arsic, the replica on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19834	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm a little surprised by the last speech of my DS counterparts, because in his first address, he was fiercely portraying the SNS as a party that doesn't think well to the citizens of Serbia, he identified with regimes in which he didn't even participate. Even its leaders accused them of harming Serbian citizens, and then the DS represented as a party offering salvation to Serbian citizens and that this government was actually doing nothing but managing the Titanic. At least that's how I understood him. But in one part, I have to admit he was right. Serbia was Titanic until July 27th 2012. Until then, Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic was. It's enough to look at and compare pictures of Mr. Cvetkovic and Captain Titanic, Edward John Smith, you'll see that they're overwhelmingly reminded. Tomislav Nikolic, Aleksandar Vukic, have changed the path of this Titanic that you managed along that ice dream. Serbia for the first time has friends on all four sides of the world, which you could not have done and achieved. When you're talking about Telecom, how come he's twice as expensive now as he was in 2011 or 2012? Because it is more trusted to this government, not the one led by Mirko Cvetkovic. And citizens trust this government more. As I said today, Serbian citizens may have little reason to rejoice, but they have one good reason -- hope that they will come out of the economic crisis that you have dragged Serbian citizens into.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19835	Mr. Babic, replica. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: How are all three of them?) ) Mr Risticevic, on the basis of a personal reference, Mr Arsic, on behalf of the MP group, Mr Babic, on behalf of the interpretation of what was relevant to his presentation. You said the Serbian Progressive Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19836	Since I am in the part of the session where good wishes are made, I thank you for those beautiful desires addressed both to my colleagues and to me. I return them on behalf of the SNS, and I personally wish you health, happiness and prosperity and no one else's SNS, whether they think or not, the same representation, the same, similar or different ideas, to no one in Serbia, and no man in this world will wish anything bad, not to you. I wish you every happiness and good health and one fruitful and long life. Who shall sit in these benches, neither we nor you, dear fellow. It is determined by citizens of the Republic of Serbia in democratic and fair elections, and in such democratic and fair elections a week ago, the DS did not cross the census. Don't be convinced you'll sit down, how long you'll sit down. You don't know that. It is measured, when citizens go there, so when they see how they lived up to a year ago, how they live now, and how they will live in the future, it will be determined by the citizens of Serbia. Let the citizens of Serbia do it. As for the part where you told me I didn't listen carefully enough, and I thought I didn't hear it well, but I asked for the record, so in that record loud and clear for DS, the European Union equals Titanic, inconsistencies, until the end. I don't know what your bosses are gonna tell you if it's a personal feeling or a party attitude, but never mind that's a question for you. What kind of steams my ears all the time – we would do it, but you're that awful opposition that wouldn't let us do it. I don't get it. The government exists and gathers around the ideas, about the programmes, about the goal, to implement that goal, to meet that goal. We have a goal but we are not allowed by a terrible opposition – it is, "non-sens".
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19837	Mr. Milivojevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19838	Without a desire to challenge the replica of the three-ring ruling coalition, since I've heard from the Prime Minister that the government is a bicep, I can see that the ruling coalition is three-ceptane. I need three of them to suit me. No problem, turn on these remaining tens, as many of you as there are, no matter how many of you answer, I'll take it. I said it well, there's a shipwreck on the ice and there's a starving, barefoot, a barefoot looking at the horizon, there's a smoke, here's everything I said, and it says -- we're saved, we're saved, here comes the Titanic. That's what you remind me of. Now, you can interpret it according to your imagination, will, intelligence, generosity, education, that's your legitimate right. As with the Zajecar elections, you can interpret as free and democratic, although every two hours you've been putting on boxing gloves and hitchhiking there who's knocked out, whether you're the URS or the URS of you, so the police had to go with you when you were glued to posters, so there was a slap at the polling stations, a beating, an ear job. It's all in line with the understanding of democracy. It's all one pro-European democratic option, which has been waiting for such behaviour today, so it will get it January 14th, perhaps, if it takes off its boxing gloves. What you're saying - the bad opposition is holding us back. You didn't do it from the opposition's business, you managed this country with a badge or no badge, from 1990 to 2000, and you created both our reality and political reality and policy of wars, destruction, refugee columns, EU persecution, not the position of the opposition. I wish you'd stayed in opposition to those years, but unfortunately, this country and its European future and its citizens, you were in power back then. Now you can say again – here, I read in the notes, we weren't in power then, we have no idea of that time. But it's your right to remember or not to remember. Don't give us that pen that can write a lot for history, and the past can't erase it. I won't do it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19839	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Do you have time?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19840	I have the time of the parliamentary group, because I've been reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19841	Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19842	Very short. Today, we discussed the national strategy of judicial reform as a capital document and a reform process that has been carried out here from 2013 to 2018. However, it is not a reform process that will be limited at this time interval. It is a reform process that will take much longer. It's an uninterrupted stream in which the state and structure of the state and pillars of power, and one of the pillars of government is the judicial authority, always under reforms, always promoted by quality, always better. It's normal to fight to make it better. What is particularly a pleasure to me as an authorised representative of the SPS is that this particular government, in which the SPS is also participating and whose President Ivica Dacic and Vice-President Mr Vucic, and you ministers, have brought this reform process with their burden to that stage that is today valorised, which is today valued by Serbia getting the start date of the negotiating process to join the EU. It's something that's very important. It is very important that we continue no matter who is in power, who is in opposition, these reforms, which involve a single goal, which is to improve the quality of life of Serbian citizens. In a concrete case, the citizens of Serbia through these reforms that I say will constantly last will always have the opportunity to achieve what the ideal means, a universal principle, which is the right to justice and the right to justice. There's no division in that direction. The SPS has never been in the last 12 years at the head of the Justice Department, nor has it been run by the Justice Department. Regardless of the amnesia of all those who have threatened this reform process for the past 12 years and no matter what they hide and seek an alibi for such a thing, the SPS will continue to be on the path of reform to put the judiciary on its good feet. I know it will be difficult to remove all those anomalies, all those catastrophic mistakes that have been made and experiments on living people, the holders of judicial functions, but I'm sure that when these mistakes are removed, although it won't be easy, it won't be easy because we pay for such mistakes, that we will then be on a safe path not only to consolidate the judiciary and the judicial system, but also to the EU, where we really belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19843	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19844	Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here after a debate that's been going on for more than 10 hours, it's time to slowly sublime all discussions and make some conclusions. There is no doubt that this day of June 28th, Vidovdan, was a very beautiful day, and it was a good time. It is also nice that we finally got a date for EU accession. I feel really good to think that today is historic by many criteria and that one day when my child learns history, she will read how Aca, Tom and Ivica brought Serbia into Europe. It is good that we had a constructive discussion on the subject of the Justice Reform Strategy and the Anti-Corruption Strategy for the period from 2013 to 2018. We concluded, regardless of which party we belong, that these strategies are needed by Serbia, that these strategies are very high-quality texts. What we saw from the ministry's report is, and also citizens need to know that these strategies were made in collaboration with friends and professional associates and advisers that we had, both from the EU and from other countries, that a whole series of NGOs participated in writing, as did the Anti-Corruption Agency. It is good that these strategies, when adopted and later implemented, when it comes to the area of justice, will lead to a reduction in the duration of the trial, which will lead to greater independence of judges and prosecutors, but also to the responsibilities of those judges and prosecutors who do not work in accordance with the law or have been unelected for reasons that existed or may have been elected also under the law. It is good that the anti-corruption strategy introduces the principle of zero tolerance in the fight against corruption, the principle that the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, who is the leader of the fight against corruption, is constantly repeating, but it is good to put it in the strategy itself now. We also believe that the amendments adopted by Minister Selakovic are extremely good amendments, amendments that will improve the text of this resolution and lead to better application of resolutions in practice. The Serbian Progressive Party will support both strategies in voting day. We note from today's discussions that even more serious parties, even opposition parties, and of course the parties of the coalition gathered around the SNS, will support this strategy. We expect one serious majority to be adopted. It will be another good day in EU accession, in order to draw closer to the negotiations on Chapter 23/24. It will be the days when these strategies are adopted and when they come into force, the days when we and all Serbian citizens will certainly be able to look to the future with greater certainty, our path to the EU and the economic improvement that comes from this. Thank you. Happy holiday and happy EU accession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19845	Mr. Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19846	At the end of this hard day, I would like to congratulate the citizens of Serbia Vidovdan. I guess we didn't live in the same country today, and we didn't watch the same news, because I don't know when we got the date. We can congratulate Croatia on joining the EU, that's nice of us, we're good neighbors. We can encourage you to continue where you have now stopped, not to kneel, not to give up. If you had thought this way 20 years ago, especially Tom, Ivica and Aca, we might be in the EU with Croatia today. Like this, we support you. Perhaps the date will be in October, if not in October, probably in November, and if not in November, certainly in January. If not in January, there will be some other Vidovdans, there will be more days to rejoice. Just don't get up and go back to the way you were. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19847	Mr. Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19848	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry that many have wasted their time, but it needs to be rational sometimes, and it's my advice and what's the subject of today's debate. I'll consider using all 20 minutes as an authorised representative of the URS... (President: Please use it. Thank you. So I didn't use the time when the party names were mentioned, because I really don't know what it was about, who was involved in it. I'm only interested in facts. As for these choices mentioned by someone, it is, one coalition, Mr Ljajic, Mr Velimir Ilic, Mr Vuk Draskovic and Mr Vuk Vukic were the symbol of that coalition, that list won over 39%, and one party, I think Mr Dinkic or Mr Nicic led, won 34%. There is another coalition whose symbol was Mr. Dacic, who won about 11%. We have another one whose symbol was Mr. Jovanovic, something over 5.3%. These are facts and I must say that I am indifferent to the facts, because the facts cannot change, as the past cannot change. It is a great pleasure that the texts that are present today are merely finding or trying to descriptively determine the underlying situation of the past in two areas – the judiciary and the fight against corruption and propose a framework for the future, and they cannot guarantee it. In a well-intentioned tone, as I had for the first time speaking to you today, Mr. Minister, I would remind you that learning from practice is not bad. No matter how someone experiences that practice. And what you just saw an hour ago, someone sees it as a beautiful wish and promise -- you'll be sitting there for 20 years, we'll be sitting here, someone can see it as a threat. Someone sees it as a promise, and he says: "Citizens are in firm hands now." God forbid they're in cat's hands, no one's smart, and he wants the citizens of Serbia in his hands. I'm sure of it. Finally, the stories of Titanic may be beautiful, but I remind you that Serbia has no sea, and there is no reason for us to fight each other. But we have a question of decency. Dear colleagues, it was beautiful how you paraphrased and occasionally quoted different writers in an attempt to put them in some context. I know you're uncomfortable doing this in front of me, because there's a nice rule that he says - don't sing in Bosnia, don't dance in Serbia, don't sing in Macedonia, and don't dance in God's name. It's not a bad metaphor, but I'm sorry to mention the names of the living people and the names of the dead people. We talked about each other very uglyly, and it's all supposed to be in an attempt to capture a piece of the past, because today is some date that someone should also adopt. Please don't. Whoever was happy with some news because he is convinced that it is good for Serbia, and the news that Serbia is on the road that Serbia has chosen has reached a major step further, whoever is looking forward to the news is welcome. Whoever is looking forward to bad news for Serbia is not personally welcome to society. But I'll take care of it. When it comes to the past, we've reached where we are. That's how it's gonna be with these strategies. And as far as we can get, there's no guarantee. It's not bad to remember that people get tired sometimes, so they're on their way to this day. But that's no way of progress. Let's not fool ourselves. Let's not get carried away. It's never been that way. Since you already love writers to quote and because many think we are entering Germany and not the EU, here is the most famous German writer, or one of the most famous, Rilke, he teaches all mortals that the goal of the journey is only, and the quality of that journey, our behavior, what we will do as a state, all through our institutions, in the coming period, guarantee the quality of that trip. And as far as we can get and what will happen to that goal, slowly. It's not the work of this congregation. What it is a job – you have adopted the amendment of Mr Peter Petrovic, which defines a special session, or conclusion. Did I get it right? Yeah. So what it is is the work of this Parliament is that within those competences that it recommends and foresees a strategy, either as an independent activity within a special session, it can do so now, just so you know. Your proposal for text was correct. Or, with an amendment adopted to the possibility of considering through a business change in the future to monitor a whole series of segments of what is foreseen in this strategy as a guarantee for taking a large number of designed steps, with clear competences of different levels of government to prevent corruption. It is a process as well as this time standardisation in accordance with the European objectives we would like to see found or declared. It's a process. Whether it will be possible – we do not know. When it comes to institutions that are taxed, for some we already know that they are equipped, for some at this session of the Assembly, and with a well-intentioned osmack and all MPs of all MPs have accepted it, there were points at this session that had to be held at a special session in order for it to be possible for the rapporteurs to take the floor. We all agreed and they took the floor before, and the presidents of the institutions, the submissions of these reports. Let's say the Anti-Corruption Agency found in the report a whole series of problems they face to do the current job, let alone the new one. In that sense, we all have to be careful that it doesn't happen to us, while there are colleagues who love poetry, the situation he sang more seriously about, who says, you know, we're in the building, we all live in it, it smells like we don't, and we have some needs to do, give someone professionally to help us. The expert is a simple plumber, he comes and looks and says right away – you know what, neither this can be hygienic nor you can meet needs. The only way to stop living in the stink is to stop the practice so far, a lot of paper, a little water. Change the practice – a little paper, a lot of water, nothing will be clogged. We need to make sure that we don't produce extra paper, that we don't just destroy established control and regulatory bodies by burying them with new obligations that will actually make them work. Why am I saying this? Because although the president of the National Assembly is in a good mood because of his doctorate yesterday, he did not warn the MP who insulted Mr. Mikovic by explaining to him how many better MPs he had. That's not right. What Mr Milivojevic said, I beg your pardon, no one has the right to insult the quality of an MP and to explain that instead of him, some other MP will surely work much better and that MP sits behind him. You never know who's gonna work better than who. It is well known that some institutions will not work better if we bury them with impossible jobs, or if we abuse, or show citizens how to abuse them. Let's say-- false reporting, so now he's going into different procedures of false reporting, to show what they're going to do, they can't deal with their basic work, so I say in comparison, you, thank God, it's a biological thing, you're going to be longer at the opportunity, but also by the powers of the ministry whose head you're headed, now has additional powers for these strategies to worry about, and it's extremely important to take care of this balance. Did you find in the strategy - first funds? I hope you'll fight for the funds for all those envisaged institutions that have to boost their activity, then, for the personnel, because those personnel will cost too. To prove your political will, I remind you once again, it's just proof of political will, otherwise we have political marketing. I don't think that's what you want. Whoever's the creator of any piece of text that's here, I don't believe that's what he wants. Also, in the justice strategy, I think that one of the MPs has already drawn attention, there is a clearly defined need to change the constitutional framework in order to achieve some objectives. The remark was, I mean, well-intentioned. No one really resented the fact that it was a distraction, that it was not in accordance with the Constitution. It was merely an indication of the danger of interpreting it. The MP who put it out has defined it enough. But there's something else I can draw your attention to. In the preparation of other affairs and acts that rely on this projection, it is longer than the mandate of a government, that the constitution will be changed in that projection, in the very way that the strategy foresees, you cannot, in that realization, speak as a representative and text, and in this case the competent ministry, to find yourself in a situation that has not yet been amended, that we do not happen to form bodies that deal with the work that the Constitution is not foreseen. This is kind of a warning, because when we talk about metaphors, corruption is rust. We can do what we did in part and just before, that many accuse each other of not cleaning rust in time, so that everything shines. We can declare that the metal that rust attacks don't matter to us, and that can be replaced by priorities. But there must always be new mechanisms to predict what we need to do to ensure that corruption becomes visible. We do this for the citizens, we do it for the special employees, not just the authorized persons and officials, and we make it real, not the market, not the political benefit. Since I have as much time as I need, here's an example. The assembly adopted a proposal by a large group of MPs to the Public Procurement Act. On this occasion, another parliamentary group proposed an amendment and said- we will vote in favour of the Public Procurement Act because it foresees a real savings fund if one amendment of ours is accepted, these proposings, and says, the amendment foresees, I assure you, that every local self-government that saves through public procurement. Based on the solutions that are in the law, and these funds go to the government, which means Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, that he takes care of it and that at the end of the year when he reports that are available to everyone whether this is true. Of course, the amendment was not accepted because one party proposed it but because it would violate the constitutional rights of citizens, those whose local self-government saved funds, but the other much more important. I think that's what we're talking about today. There's no money left in public procurement. The whole question is with the money available, as much as this country has, and that's the money of all of us, all of us citizens, how much of it can be done for jobs that are of general benefit to citizens. If local self-government repairs the facades, it has an item, it has as much resources as it has. If there is no theft and public procurement is done in accordance with the citizens' interest, and not only in law, there will be much more facades within the same financial year and funds that are intended exclusively for facades much more facades to restore. Not that there's gonna be any money left in that budget so she can send. That's what we need laws for. Mr. Minister, which you compared strategies so you saw it was important to compare. Compare the work of the ministries, not yours, you have one ministry that received almost the same money with the 2012 and 2013 budget. I think the 50 million difference. Check if the ministry hired 20% of new employees, whether it opened only those projects last year, I'm not talking about who was where it started, finished funding and finished the works, just didn't use marketing. Make sure it pays off all items that are currently scheduled and we know there's no money. Why am I saying this and not mentioning names? Like when there was a story of position and opposition, I was only interested in the MP, and I watched who was the hour of position and who was the opposition. In this case, it is very important in the fight against corruption – there is corruption and it is causing enormous damage. Let's see what we do systematically and make it visible to the citizens, and neither of them will be tomorrow, but there is ignorance, intricacy, non-recognition of other people's experiences, I don't mean political alone, I don't mean the previous ones. It produces the same damage as the Public Procurement Act should bring benefits – from the same means as much work to be done. No corruption at all, and check it out, maybe there is. As far as I know, the government has already replaced at least one state secretary from that ministry without this reconstruction. Check what's going on because ignorance bites the same thing. I'm telling you all this, not to cause controversy or hajka. You know that these polemics sometimes look like matches, whenever you see two sides of each other saying something alternately about the third question is whether it's value, play, or it's someone's interest. Both strategies do not apply to the mandates of any government. It is important to implement them in relation to the institutions to which they apply. It's important to make it visible to each and every one of us what he needs to do to make his damage smaller. We'll talk about the benefits later, and the biggest damage is always personal. Those who consistently advocate something as a principle, as well as citizens who consistently support something, cannot expect the results to see tomorrow. Now you will sum up, I suppose, Mr. Minister, what you heard today. On Monday, these strategies will be adopted. Don't let anyone get the wrong idea that Tuesday's gonna get better. Not especially if he thinks I'm passing the law, or any other act, or any personal appearance on television, or any personal commitment changes something right now. No, something only changes in the process. Thank you for listening to me and sorry about the time joke. I think a lot of people deserve it, so I can do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19849	Mr. Marinkovic has the word. You've got 45 seconds left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19850	Dear President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I was not rational, unfortunately, as my distinguished colleague Markovic, but I am taking the opportunity to only in the spirit of today's holiday, in the spirit of tolerance promoted by the party to which I belong, therefore the SDPS, call on all fellow MPs and the positions and opposition to finally come, when it comes to some issues, to consensus. The EU issue is the issue of fighting corruption that we have on the agenda today, because it will be a sign that we have finally become a mature society and that we are going dynamically towards meeting economic and all other reforms. I'm going to finish my speech by Aristotle's words that all people should strive for good, and that the state should seek the greatest good. Therefore, we as representatives of this state and representatives of the government and parliament should work together on good. I think it was a good and quality discussion today and that this could be what happened today, one good generator of future success and future results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19851	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19852	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really must say that I am more and more satisfied with the way the debate looks. One day perhaps some minister second in the future will be more pleased than I am, but I am glad that progress is visible compared to some previous period. When I say the previous period, I don't mean the mandate of one government, I mean the whole period that's behind us. Serbia as a state that has progressed much more than a century and a half in the heritage of parliamentaryism compared to that time. Maybe not as much as we wanted, but if she had made progress, she did. I would also like to express great satisfaction with the fact that, as the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration, we have managed to make two proposals for the previous nine months and, I repeat, for the first time, together with the proposals for a strategy and proposals for action plans related to their implementation. Let me briefly refer to some of the things that were heard during today's debate, and I really tried to be patient and constructive, not to get involved and not to replicate then, but I think it's important for the general public that some things be clarified, some of them repeated, and some more highlighted. There was an interesting finding where I was personally told that I had no right to comment and to criticise the privatisations carried out. I fall into a generation of people who, miraculously, and most of the team that worked on these strategies and who sits on my left side belong to that generation, some of the MPs also, unfortunately, were able to watch in front of their eyes the wealth, which generations of people have been building for decades, melt in a few months, sometimes a few years, but were mostly about months. I fall into a generation of people whose largest number of members in Serbia, unfortunately, lives on the pension of one of the family members, not of their own income, because there is no opportunity to hire and start their own emancipated and independent lives. The state and social wealth were wasted and the state was not when it had to be prevented. We can't turn back time, we can't correct what used to happen, but we can stop these things from happening in the future and we can go through this system, organised, institutional prevention that we're building a system of values step by step, which today has been established that it doesn't exist or that it's gone. It has been said that there is no justification here because it is not supported by a value system. It's exactly the value system that needs to be built. There's no overdosing, no big enthusiasm here. It's simple, when you do something right, you're satisfied that it's done well. But what we did as the Ministry through working groups that not only did the people of this ministry, but from all parts of the system, it's significant, but it's certainly not the end of the job. It has come to pass that on our national holiday we hear one news that is significant, it can be, but, as I said, it doesn't have to mean, because it depends on us how significant this day will be or not. It has been concluded that on this very day in the National Assembly we are discussing two important strategic acts for a period of five years. Like I said, two acts that won't take months or years to come up with action plans. But the importance of this day can be great and there are some symbols in what has been concluded both Vidovdan and the decision of the EU Council and this debate in the Assembly, which is that this step is closer to the Union, as it has been said, or that something stronger for the Union that will make us, as a state and the institutions of this country, want to discuss and implement what we are doing here today. This is our preparation for the big exams waiting for us. This is our plan to learn how to prepare these exams. It's up to us to meet him. It has been said that one man cannot fight corruption. Everyone understands reality and today how they can, how they can or how they want. One man can run something, but fighting corruption can only run a well-organized system because corruption is a systemic pain. As you cannot be cured by a doctor, you are treated directly by medications, treated by your own behavior, treated by your way of life, but the doctor may be the one who motivates you to approach this treatment, which will give you hope, which will show you that it is not all over and that it is worth the effort and do something good. There have been many demands. Let's just say as minister, I question how the Constitutional Court made that decision a year ago. First thing, I don't have the authority to do that. The second thing, in every country, the Constitutional Court is not only a legal, but a political body. The third thing, the Constitutional Court is a high instance that decides independently and sovereignly. As it decides, this is regulated by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the institution. Do I have the right to interfere, of course not? Do I have the right to have an opinion on that? I do, but I have the right to keep it to myself, especially when I'm performing a public function and I can't just bring up my own personal judgments and opinions so easily. I'm going to look at a few details that I think are very important. The national anti-corruption strategy identified highly sensitive corruption areas. Special attention by MPs has attracted areas such as urbanism. This has led me to remember something, which as a lawyer I feel is a huge flaw in our system today, and as a citizen I have seen in time that it is probably the result of some corruption and ask a question, I will not answer it, I will just ask it – why is there no more a system of land books in Serbia? Why is there no longer a much better, much more well-arranged, much more reliable immovableity register in Serbia, such as land books, and not a cataster of immovableity? Why don't the courts do it anymore? Why the work of another administrative authority? Why isn't this a court case anymore? That's why we're talking today about a strategy to fight corruption. Somebody took the big money. There has been talk of equating court practice, it has been said that there has been a lack of the role of appeals courts in the previous period, when it comes to equating case law. Several times at the beginning of my term, I said that not as a citizen, but as a lawyer and as a legal historian, I know that in these areas, the creation of legal duality, some legal autonomy has always been a real indicator of some of the future political processes that have taken place. I personally had the view that Serbia, of the 7.5 million inhabitants, did not need four appeals courts. Unfortunately, I didn't come across an expert public response that I would share as well as my own. Of course, I trusted the professional public, kept my opinion to myself and listened to her voice. But I must draw attention to colleagues who have pointed out this problem to draw attention to the fact that unequal court practice in four appeals in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is not an indicator of their poor work, but of the poor work of the Supreme Casation Court, which had to level the practice of these four appeals. The Supreme Cassation Court did not do its job, and therefore we came into the situation that for three years various rulings were issued in the fields of the city, Belgrade, Kragujeva and New Sad appeals. What did that have as a result? Something rightly called the inequality of citizens under the law. The Justice Academy is mentioned several times in a critical spirit and as something that bypassed the system. For the sake of the Judicial Academy, which is the only one of the three judicial academys in Europe that is not from EU member states, which was considered the most successful in the previous period besides the two that are from EU member states. For the sake of the people who completed their initial training at the academy, but also for the many and not two and a half thousand but 1.527 judicial and prosecutorial assistants in all courts and public prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia, I have to notice one thing. The convincing majority of first-generation members of the Judicial Academy had an assistant internship in our courts and prosecutors, and 25% of them from 7 to 12 years worked in our courts and prosecutors, over 50% of them worked from four to seven years and at least any of them had up to four years of internships when they entered the academy. I'd like my colleagues to know the same thing as my fellow judge and prosecutor's assistants. What could be a big problem in the future? It could be a matter of procedure, a way into the Judicial Academy. Of course, that's something that's very sensitive and that can be problematic, but that's why a strategy and a follow-up action plan is being adopted. From the moment the action plan is adopted, it is the obligation of all, not just the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration, on any strategy that we are talking about, but all of them, especially when we have a horizontal strategy in front of us, therefore, a strategy that includes several resolutions, several ministries such as the anti-corruption strategy. It's something where all ministries and the entire government must stand united. I am sorry that the honourable fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament who in some things have criticised the texts of the strategies are not present here right now and that they can hear my answer. I hope they'll send a TV feed, but I have to say it. In 2006, when the then Justice Reform Strategy was adopted, we identified what is the way for the development of our judiciary. That's when I had my own opinion and my own personal opinion on it. I haven't changed that attitude until today. I think the main definitions of that strategy were bad, but you can't come to power any time you come in, you can't act revolutionaryly. I've always been more about evolution than about revolution, because it's a much safer way. You can't cross what's good done. Unfortunately, several times I've said here, some good things have been done, but bad things have been thrown into the shadows by their consequences and we don't notice them. What we hold her well and promote, which we change her badly and fix and move on. When it was first foreseen in the strategy seven years ago that a body such as the High Council of the Judiciary was set up in Serbia, to establish a body such as the State's Major Prosecutors, to leave a concert that the Serbian legal system had inherited more than a century ago, which was built on a German model, to go to a new project. We got into it. Then, writing the Constitution in 2006 when it came to the judiciary, we rewritten the Justice Reform Strategy and introduced it into the Constitution, and none of it was alive. That's when we got into a big problem. A fellow MP said when you enter something new, as a lawyer, I must point out, you need regulations, you need people, and you need funds. At the moment we were getting into it, we brought new regulations. We've invested certain funds. Unfortunately, one thing we overlooked. If a man is educated as a judge in one system, and he's been in that system for 10, 15, 20 years, he's learned well what it means to be a judge, but he's never prepared to lead a country's judicial policy. He may have thought he could do it, but in a country where politicians ran it for one, two or five years, it was not possible to transfer it to judges and prosecutors. We've come up with a problem that we're in today, a problem that doesn't come out easily. With one and a half feet in it, we're not half-footed, and we're wondering if it's easier for one and a half of our legs to pull out, or if the other half in the same way let it go. This strategy of judicial reform is a path in which we are fully committed to building an independent, impartial, professional, responsible and effective judiciary. This is the day when we published in one paper and adopted that we would leave the judiciary in Serbia to those who make it. What the esteemed Mr Markovic said, for the new authorities that carry out many powers, speaking about the Anti-Corruption Strategy, an example of an institution that is transferred to powers, which is not the staff to manage and manage, is the result of a previous reform of the judiciary in Serbia, where you have received authorities that were not at the level of the task of being able to consume their responsibilities and fulfil them. Is it something to a Serbian citizen who is not a graduate lawyer, a lawyer, an associate in a court or a prosecutor's office, does something mean something to him that I just said? It doesn't mean anything to him. A citizen goes to court when he is caused by impotence and torment, when he is forced to gain life's circumstances, when he is made to feel the threat of his rights and to enter the court he comes to the face of the state and what sort of judgment he is to him, such is the state towards him. If it can't protect rights, there's no state for it. It doesn't exist in the form in which it should exist. When did I become aware of that? When I entered some of the courts in Serbia where they told me that they had not been entered by the minister of justice for over 25 years. Believe me, there are some. In these 11 months, with the obligations involved in solving the burning political problem in our country, I have been able to tour 29 courts and six judicial units, which is about 1/4. It's just that these people should have been heard, you should have talked to them. There's plenty of hardworking, hardworking, honest people and scared people, but it's hard for a country where the judge is scared. You'll have a hard time encouraging him. Let's make this strategy and what it needs to bring with it encourage these people. I have to look back on something that's been said and that would end this debate. It has been said that this strategy did not provide for the improvement of administrative staff, administrative workers. And as he cares, turn to, say, paragraphs 3 and 4 and says, improving the expertise of administrative staff in courts and public prosecutors, without adequately trained administrative and technical staff in courts and public prosecutors, there is neither quality nor effective work of these bodies, and it is necessary to work on their training and professional training. You have two strategic guidelines regarding this. You have a further material position, and I'm going to say right now, thank you for saying, material position, because we've just been able to get back at the beginning of this year to the people who are doing a very responsible job, who are one of the weakest paid in the country. So you have four pages in the strategy that talks about it, you have several chapters about what they're talking about on the action plan. One thing, for the sake of citizens, is said nicely, if both strategies are adopted on Monday, will Tuesday be better? Of course not, and will it be safer? Citizens can be more confident that work will be committed to fulfilling what the strategy has drawn up. Is it possible to apply the strategy retroactively, backwards, so if you say, here is the Law on Public Enterprises, by which some directors are elected, whether to start applying on Tuesday, because a strategy has been adopted. The law has been passed, it is applied in the way other laws apply. Whoever wanted to be at the end of the line was able to take and read the draft of the action plan and see what time the good part of that law was scheduled to change. Why? Because it does not give adequate and detailed procedures to conduct elections in the competition of the director of public enterprises. You can say now, yes, but this government passed that same law, but that law is better than the previous law, and that law is two or three steps more advanced than the one before it. Let's be honest and let's say that when it comes to the budget, too. I will just remind you, regardless of the economic difficulties we face, the current budget of the Republic of Serbia after a long time was brought not by an urgent procedure, not two or three days before the New Year, after a long, long time, or for the first time after the adoption of the current Constitution, was passed within the legal deadline. The exchange which is one of the foreign exchanges of these strategies, but it is at the beginning of a public administration reform strategy which, for God's sakes, we will bring in September of the month, because it is planned, is also the principle that usually figures in modern and modern states as one of the most important - as much as possible with as little as possible. Let's be rational, Serbia is not a rich country, but Serbia has been a country in which for more than two decades, in some areas more, in some smaller, and sometimes in all things, it has not been managed domestically. Whether we have a lack of wealth and economic scarcity will make us remember our ancestors, whom we remember on this day every year and say that they didn't manage the household probably we wouldn't be sitting here today. If we want our descendants to sit here one day, let's remember that household management and try to achieve as little as possible. These strategies are for the government of the Republic of Serbia, for the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration, for all institutions that are important for the functioning of the anti-corruption and judicial system, as far as Monday is not an honor and pride, but a major obligation. There will be a lot of difficult things that will have to be done, but from the moment we start to solve these things with a much stronger partnership with the EU, it will be easier for us to finish them. Examples from the environment, examples from this continent show us that this is possible. Once again, I thank you for a good debate. I thank you for the amendments. I thank all those people who have participated in working groups and have managed to, freely say within record time, give strategies that will not satisfy the whole world, but should satisfy those that concern them. Thank you to those who have helped us, but thank you to those who have escaped from us. If we hadn't been distracted, would these texts have been this good? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-28-0.u19853	I'm concluding a joint single search. We're moving on to the next joint single search. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint single search on items 8 and 9 of the agenda, before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that according to Article 193 and Article 97 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament's groups, which is the details of which you have received in the material. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to apply for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a joint single search on the motion for a decision on the resolution and appointment of a member of the Republic Election Commission and a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Do the presidents and the promoters want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled single search, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96 want the word. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint single search. After we have conducted a joint single search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motions for decisions. Since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5), I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Monday, 1 July 2013, starting at 11.00 a.m. as the day for voting on the agendas of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Have a nice weekend and I'll see you Monday. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 130 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 128 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Branko Ružić, Ljubisa Stojmirović, Zlata Djeric, Meho Omerović, Gordana Komic, Nenad Konstantinović, Konstantin Samofalov and Milica Radovic. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the sitting agenda, we are moving to a decision. We are moving to the 1st item of the agenda – REFERRED TO THE AGER'S REPORT FOR 2012 One year, with the proposal to lock up the Justice Committee, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government of 8. In the light of the above, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food Years, THE PROPOSAL OF THE CONCLUSION OF THE LADY AND MA-NJINIC RIGHTS AND EQUALITY OF POLOS OF 24. In the light of the above, YEARS, PROPOSAL OF THE JOB CONCLUSION, SOCIAL QUESTIONS, SOCIAL IMPLEMENTATION AND DELECTION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF 29. In the light of the above, YEARS AND SUMMARY OF THE CONCLUSION OF THE CRIME RIGHTS COMMITTEE OF 31. In the light of the above, A year. I put to the vote the proposal for a conclusion on the review of the 2012 Regular Annual Report of the Citizens' Protector, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government on 8 May 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – no one, with abstention – has voted three of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. I put to the vote the proposal for a conclusion on the review of the 2012 Regular Annual Report of the Citizens' Protectors, which was submitted by the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality on 24 May 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 159 against – two of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. I put to the vote the proposal for a conclusion on the review of the 2012 Regular Annual Report of the Citizens' Protectors, which was submitted by the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction on 29 May 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 161 versus – no one, with abstentions, has voted for two of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a conclusion on the review of the 2012 Regular Annual Report of the Citizens' Protector, which was submitted by the Committee on the Rights of the Child on 31 May 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 162 against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted for one of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. We are moving to item 2 of the agenda – REFERRED TO THE AGER'S ASSESSMENT REFERRED TO IN 2012. One year, with the proposal of the conclusion of the Committee on Human and Mankind Rights and Gender Alignment of 24. In the light of the above, YEARS AND PROPOSAL OF THE COOPERATION OF THE Labour COMMITTEE, SOCIAL QUESTIONS, SOCIAL INVESTMENT AND DELECTION OF THE SILVATION OF 29. In the light of the above, A year. I put to the vote the proposal for a conclusion on the review of the Regular Annual Report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality for 2012, which was submitted by the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality on 24 May 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, v – one, abstention – one, 11 of the 166 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. I put to the vote the proposal for a conclusion on the review of the Regular Annual Report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality for 2012, which was submitted by the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction on 29 May 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, v – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 12 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda — REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE LEGISLATION OF THE FREE APPLICATION OF INFORMATION FROM THE PUBLIC MEANING AND THE LAWS TO PROTECT PERSONAL PERSONS FOR 2012. Year, with a proposal for a CULTURE AND INFORMATION DECISION OF 24. June 2013 YEARS AND PROPOSAL OF THE CONCLUSION OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE, THE COUNTRY AND THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT OF 24. June 2013 A year. I put to the vote a proposal for a conclusion on the discussion of the 2012 report on the implementation of the Law on free access to information of public importance and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, which was submitted by the Committee on Culture and Information on 24 June 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 164, no one, with abstentions, voted three of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. I would like to put to the vote a proposal for a conclusion on the discussion of the 2012 report on the implementation of the Law on Free Access to Public Information and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government on 24 June 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 165, no one, with abstentions, voted for two of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. We are moving to item 4 of the agenda — ACCOUNTING ON THE WORK OF THE COUNTRY REVISION INSTITUTIONS FOR 2012. One year, with the proposal to lock up the Financial Committee, the Republic Budget and the control of the spending of public funds since 19. June 2013 A year. I put to the vote a proposal for a conclusion on the review of the 2012 report of the State Auditing Institution, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds on 19 June 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, against – no one, with abstention – has voted seven of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – THE AGE REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE AGENCY TO FIGHT CORRUPTION FOR 2012. One year, with the proposal to lock up the Justice Committee, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government of 24. June 2013 A year. I put to the vote a proposal for a conclusion on the annual report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency for 2012, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government on 24 June 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 162 against – no one, with abstention – has voted five of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. We are moving to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a NATIONAL STRATEGY OF THE REFORM OF THE COURT OF COURT OF PURPOSE 2013/2018. A year. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote a proposal for a national justice reform strategy for the period 2013-2018, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – 32, abstentions – there are no votes, nine of the total of 168 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted the proposal, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments: to Chapter III and Chapter VII, which was submitted by MP Elvira Kovac and to Chapter V, with correction, which was submitted by MP Neđo Jovanovic. Since the National Assembly accepted the proposal in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. On his head, the amendment was filed by MP Arpad Fremond. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapters VI and VII of the amendment was filed by MP Zoltan Peck. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On chapter VII, the amendment was filed by MP Balint Pastor. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 152 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On chapter VII, the amendment was filed by the People's MP Lasslo Varg. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am voting on the proposal for a national justice reform strategy for the period 2013 to 2018, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – 31 abstentions – there are no votes, six of the 168 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a national justice reform strategy for the period from 2013 to 2018. We are moving to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a NATIONAL STRATEGY TO Fight CORRUPTION IN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA FOR PURPOSE since 2013. This Regulation shall YEARS after the National Assembly has conducted a search, we move on to a decision. I am voting on the National Anti-Corruption Strategy proposal in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2013 to 2018, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, v – 15 abstentions – no, 22 of the 169 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal for a strategy, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the Strategy's proposal in principle, we are moving to a decision on the amendment. On Chapter V, paragraph 5.5.The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Petrovic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. At the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, no one, with abstentions, voted 42 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on a strategy proposal in general. I am voting on the National Anti-Corruption Strategy proposal in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2013 to 2018, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134, v – 11 abstentions – no, 26 of the 171 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted the National Anti-Corruption Strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2013 to 2018, in general. We move to the 8th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and the appointment of the Deputy Member of the Republic of Republic of vote since the National Assembly has conducted a single search on the motion for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2 point 15) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly shall exercise electoral jurisdiction over most of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the resolution and appointment of a deputy member of the Republic Election Commission. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 164, no one, with abstentions, voted six of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision on the resolution and appointment of a deputy member of the Republic Election Commission by majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and alternate members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia After the National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2 point 15, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all the MPs also performs other electoral powers. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 165, no one, with abstentions, voted six of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputy members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, by majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision on the violations of the Rules of Procedure. On the occasion of the apparition of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provisions of Article 103, paragraph 6. Rules under which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, or the chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, he may request, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly be declared without delay in the voting day. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, held a session on June 26th 2013, at 18 hours and 45 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 151 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dr Janko Veselinović, on June 26th 2013, at 18 hours and 48 minutes, pointed to a violation of Articles 105, 106 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, at a session on June 26th 2013, at 19 hours and two minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, voted – 151 of the total attendance of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Bojan Djuric, at a session on 28 June 2013, at 16 hours and 40 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions, voted – 148 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Miljenko Dereta at a session on June 26, 2013, at 19 and five minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – no one, with abstention, voted – 146 of the total attendance of the 171 MP. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. I hereby conclude the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. (The session is closed at 11.40 p.m. )
