ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30553	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 71 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Point 15 of the agenda – Proposal for a Resolution on the role of the National Assembly and the principles in the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union You received a motion for a resolution on the role of the National Assembly and the principles in the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union, which was submitted by a group of 13 MPs. You have received reports from the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as from the Government. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, according to Article 191 and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Time is in your favor. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 190(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a resolution on the role of the National Assembly and the principles of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union. Does the proposing representative, National MP Natasa Vučković, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30554	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today I am tasked with presenting on behalf of the MPs who have tabled the motion for a resolution on the role of the National Assembly and the principles in the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union the reasons for this resolution, the solutions it makes and the expected effects of this resolution. A large majority of us MPs, both from the opposition and from the ruling majority, hopes and expects this session to make positive decisions for Serbia on the start of negotiations. In this week, our Assembly wanted to discuss the motion for a resolution on how the National Assembly will participate in the accession negotiations process, which is expected to begin and formally hold an Intergovernmental Conference at the latest in January 2014. The first and so far only resolution on Serbia's European path, the 2004 Association Resolution, was reached nearly 10 years ago. Meanwhile, Serbia has come a long way, from a positive study on feasibility, conclusion of the Association and Stabilisation Agreement, through applying for EU membership, receiving a positive opinion on the request, and now we are one step away from the formal start of membership negotiations. A new challenge, for which we have been harmonising our legal system with EU law for several years now and preparing our administrative capacities, and since June of this year, the government has been working to prepare and negotiate structures, starting with the appointment of the head of the negotiating team, etc. Why was this resolution necessary? Why is she important? Negotiations are run by the government. The government is responsible for holding negotiations, and that is undeniable. Then the question arises whether we can and must involve ourselves in this business as representatives of the citizens, as the most representative body? There are several reasons why the assembly's participation in the accession negotiations process is extremely important. First, every phase of the negotiations will affect the plan and the scope of reforms that will be carried out in the country. So it will also affect our job to pass laws and harmonize our legal system with EU legal assets. The whole process will also affect the citizens, because reforms will put new commitments ahead of us. If we were not actively following what is being negotiated in Brussels as a Assembly, we could only confirm by passing the law what the Government is negotiating, by introducing reforms. But as far as accession negotiations are concerned, we could only eventually ratify the accession agreement. That wouldn't be good for the citizens we represent. Citizens must be timely, fully and in a clear way informed of what the negotiations mean to them, what benefits and what challenges they will face in the outcome of negotiations and reforms. Although the government's decisions to form a negotiating team have pointed out that in the negotiating groups and the whole process, consultations will be conducted both with civil society and with experts, with the public concerned, as it is said today, it is not realistic to expect that the process in the government, or on the negotiating team, will be as open and transparent as the National Assembly can achieve. So this resolution is important to the citizens of Serbia. Secondly, negotiations will take years, and longer than the mandate of a government. Perhaps two or three governments will conduct negotiations in years ahead of us. Someone who's in opposition today will be in power tomorrow and will have to pick up where the previous government left off. In order to maintain the continuity of the process, it is also necessary for the opposition to participate in the process. The negotiation process requires political dialogue. The fact that today the vast majority of the assembly is supporting and actively favouring Serbia's EU accession is encouraging, but in this context the political parties have different opinions on concrete issues, whether in this way they represent the special interest of the citizens they represent, whether they seek to speed up the whole reform process. For every government and every negotiating team, it will be important that in Brussels, when they negotiate, they know that they have support at home, i.e. they are also familiar with the criticism given in the institutions of our country. So this resolution is important for both the government and the negotiating team. Third, by participating in the process of negotiations through their monitoring, through formatting reforms and introducing EU legal flows into our legal system, our National Assembly will prepare itself for the future role it will play as the National Parliament of the Member States once we become a member. This process should help us strengthen parliament as an institution. So this resolution is important for both the development and the National Assembly itself. I will now present the most important provisions of the motion for a resolution. The proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the role in the EU negotiations process confirms that the strategic objective of the Republic of Serbia on accession negotiations is to achieve EU membership as soon as possible and that the National Assembly will contribute to their successful leadership by its active action, and as soon as possible to the end. The motion for a resolution, as well as a resolution adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, sets out that the negotiation process requires a political social consensus on the structure and dynamics of negotiating the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. The motion for a resolution points out the importance of accession negotiations with a view to ensuring stable economic growth, while taking into account the protection of business branches that are of vital interest to the Republic of Serbia on market economy conditions, while ensuring economic and social security and the well-being of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The importance of the ongoing dialogue and the concerted functioning of state authorities in the process of negotiations with Serbia's EU accession, particularly in the part of bringing national legislation into line with EU law. The motion for this resolution calls on the government to continue to implement the national programme for the adoption of EU legal flows, and the National Assembly is obliged to adopt laws from national legal fluids in accordance with established dynamics. What we need to stress is that we need to follow the law. The motion for a resolution recognises the fact that the negotiations process is not indirectly realised by the government of the Republic of Serbia. The question that has been raised is – how can the Assembly define its place in this process by respecting the principle of division of power and at what point should it be involved. Whether to consider a proposal for negotiating positions before they are adopted by the government or after the government adopts them. In order to understand the difference, it is important that we bear in mind that in our daily legislative practice whenever we consider a proposal that comes to us from the Government on this document, the Government has previously declared itself. In its conclusion of 23 September this year, the government predicted that it would deliver negotiating positions to the Assembly after the government adopted them, practically for information. Starting from the fact that this is a specific process which does not fall within the legislative procedure but also in the existing control role of the Assembly the resolution foresees a broader participation and greater impact of the Assembly in defining negotiating positions than the Government initially predicted. The government's obligation is to deliver a proposal to the Assembly before it adopts them. These positions will be discussed by committees in charge of which the relevant negotiating chapters are issues which deliver their opinion to the Committee on European Integration. The Committee on European Integration then adopts an opinion and recommendations on the proposal for a negotiating position, sends it to the Government, the Government must consider that opinion, or recommendations, when adopting the final version of the negotiating position and must inform the Committee on European Integration. There are often questions in the public why the Assembly does not have a binding impact on the negotiating positions. First, as we have said, negotiations are the government's task and it bears responsibility for them. Secondly, it is a rare practice and environment among all the countries that are now new EU members that parliament plays a binding role in formulating positions. Thirdly, it was also necessary to take care of the institutional capacities of our Parliament to take on such a role. The motion for a resolution stresses the need to include all relevant committees of the National Assembly in the process of monitoring accession negotiations, while the Committee on European Integration will be the main coordinator of the process of monitoring the accession of the Republic of Serbia. It seeks to strengthen the Committee on European Integration and prepare for a future role when it becomes a Committee on European Affairs after accession. The government's obligation to submit reports to the National Assembly on the course of accession negotiations twice a year, i.e. after the end of the six-month cycle of the Presidency of the EU Council. The report will be discussed at a session of the National Assembly. The negotiating team chief's obligation to submit reports to the European Integration Committee is also foreseen at least once every three months. It is also anticipated that the Government delivers a report to the Committee on European Integration on the results of bilateral screening for each negotiating chapter. The resolution also highlights the role of the National Assembly in developing co-operation with the national parliaments of the member states and the European Parliament. It also recognises the role of the National Assembly in strengthening social and political consensus in the negotiation process. In this context, it is noted that the National Assembly is working with civil society, professional public and other stakeholders to ensure their maximum involvement in the whole process. Let me finally say a few words about how this proposal texted the resolution. The draft consisted of a Working Group of 11 MPs, all members of the Committee on European Integration. During our work on the text, we held a number of meetings with experts, with representatives of parliaments in the region to get to know their practice directly, and held meetings with representatives of several civil society organisations. We tried to reach a consensus on a very small number of issues on the Working Group, and we didn't reach it. Some solutions have been proposed to the amendments to the Members of Parliament. The Committee on European Integration identified the motion for a resolution, and since the Committee does not have a legislative role under its Rules of Procedure, only the MPs were able to formally submit the motion for a resolution. This was done by 13 members of the Committee on European Integration. The Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives discussed the motion for a resolution and their reports were given to you in the material for the session, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia delivered an opinion to the National Assembly on a proposal for a resolution that is positive. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, by adopting a resolution, the National Assembly will show its determination to contribute to Serbia's EU accession. The resolution before all of us puts one new challenge, one new task. Over the next few months, we are about to specify co-operation with the civil sector and stakeholders as well as the precision of our internal procedure. I expect, dear colleagues, that this resolution will be supported by a large number of MPs in this assembly today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30555	Before I continue my work, I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from attending the following MPs: Stošić Milorad, Olgica Batic, Cedomir Protic, Ljuban Panic and Aleksandar Senic. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30556	Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our parliamentary group is very pleased to discuss this document today at the National Assembly session. As the chairman of the Committee on European Integration highlighted the first and last resolution on European integration in this House was adopted nine years ago, a rather long period without debate, without debate in parliament on this important process. In 2008, however, parliament was once again able to consider the process of European integration in a comprehensive way. The debate was held in September 2008 and was then voted on a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. It was practically the last time this topic was discussed in this House. One of my proposals to work on this text within the Working Group was that this practice was also changed in one of the points of the motion for a resolution, which will be our own obligation, which will be held at least twice a year at plenary sessions of the National Assembly on the state of affairs in the European integration process. I think that these opportunities will be important and it will mean one possibility for other than one narrow circle of people, perhaps a few dozen, maybe a hundred people who participate in European integration daily, to get to know the general public at some point in the process. Why is this process important for our party, therefore for SVM? I think there are countless reasons, but I'd like to point out only two key ones to this opportunity. The first is that we are convinced that this country, therefore our country, only thanks to this process can eventually become a modern European country. There are countless examples from the past that prove this. I think on the case of ourselves, we can prove this as simple as possible. Had it not been for the process of European integration and, in this sense, the positive pressure of the European Commission and today, the MPs would have had blank resignations. That's one example. I could say a lot more, but I think one of the key aspects of this process is that, so when this country faces a lot of key problems in many situations, these problems are solved exclusively in a way that requires us to do so by the EU or the European Commission. Which, of course, is not good. But no matter what, that's the way it is. On the other hand, for our parliamentary group, this process is important because we see this process as one possibility for many of the constitutional rights guaranteed by many constitutional guarantees concerning minority rights to a significantly better extent than at this point. So, on this occasion, I might like to remind myself of a constitutional guarantee relating to the proper representation of minority communities in public life in the public sector. The constitutional guarantee exists, but has not been applied for years. I think the only process of European integration is the process that carries within it the possibility of changing the situation, as far as this issue is concerned. There were a lot of questions, not a lot, but a lot of questions that were being debated at the working group sessions, and now I'd like to talk about them, to open up some dilemmas that might have been interesting. On the one hand, the issue of conditions Serbia is ready to meet on this road has been raised. That's what point 4. The motion for a resolution. Finally, the text states that Serbia is ready to meet the conditions defined in 1993 at the Copenhagen European Council, or 1995 at the European Council in Madrid. I don't think that's gonna happen, unfortunately enough. The conditions that our country must meet will be those that will be defined within days at the Brussels European Council when the European Council adopts the negotiating framework. These documents in 1993, 1995 are of course important, because they contain one framework, but the conditions for our country will be defined this year and I think it is important to point out because it would not be good for there to be some misunderstanding in this sense. The second question that may have been interesting is the issue of those industries whose protection is necessary, at least as far as the position of the National Assembly is concerned throughout this process. There was a proposal. I was in favour of the proposal, too, but in the end it was not adopted, that the area of agriculture should be particularly highlighted as an economic branch that deserves special protection. There are several questions about the area of agriculture that will certainly be opened, of which a heated debate will certainly take place when the negotiations begin. One example is certainly the transport of agricultural land through the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, Serbia has accepted the obligation to fully liberalise agricultural land since 2017 in such a way that EU citizens can also be able to buy agricultural land as domestic citizens in Serbia. I think that this is a disastrous solution and one, for me, an incomprehensible concession made in 2005 and 2006 when the Stabilisation and Association Agreement negotiations were held, which is not a reason for Serbia not to try to negotiate with the EU in this new process and the period ahead, to find a solution that is significantly greater in line with national interests. No new Member State has liberalised its agricultural land market before full membership, on the contrary, for several years, some Member States have fought not to liberalise that part of their market for more than ten years after full membership. This will raise the issue of genetically modified products, the issue of customs protection, but in any case agriculture will certainly be one of the economic branches that will deserve the government's special attention in these negotiations. What was also a debate within the working group, and that was my proposal that was not accepted, was a question of the participation of the National Assembly in government bodies to conduct negotiations. This resolution does not foresee the participation of representatives of the National Assembly, not in any of the bodies of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that will deal with negotiations, and I do not think that this is a good solution, as this resolution gives the National Assembly jurisdiction to coordinate the monitoring of negotiations, a complete process. If so, I am convinced that it would be a much better solution for that communication with the government to be two-way. Therefore, according to the motion for a resolution, the representatives of the Government will take part in meetings of the Committee on European Integration, which will discuss negotiating chapters, or negotiating positions, and the National Assembly will not have the opportunity to take part in meetings of any government body that will pre-defined the proposals of these negotiating chapters. According to the explanation I gave, and regarding the amendment that I later submitted, the government rejected it. It explains that the participation of representatives of the National Assembly in one of the government's bodies would be in the highest operating body of the Government dealing with European integration, so that it would be a interference of the competences of different branches of government, in order to be mixed by the National Assembly in the work of the executive government. I don't think that argument simply stands, since the Council of the Coordination Body for Association includes a representative of the NBS. I don't think the NBS is in any way part of the executive government, and yet it will participate in the Council of the Coordination Body's work, so the government's explanation for which this initiative has been rejected is not in place and is not in place. It was perhaps more correct and fairer to say that there is no simple political will for parliament to be involved in any government body that will deal with European integration and then we would understand it more easily. The mechanism presented by the chairman of the Committee on European Integration, the process in which the negotiating positions will be established, I think it is correct and that it ensures that the level of participation of the National Assembly in this whole process, which is realistic and necessary at the moment in Serbia. In that regard, I think the National Assembly can be pleased. There is one question that has not been opened in drawing up this resolution and which is not in any form included in the text of the motion for a resolution, which is Serbia's obligation to bring its foreign policy into line with EU foreign policy. So that question doesn't treat this document. This document deals only with the harmonisation of legislation, on the one hand, and the obligation to implement this harmonised legislation. Within days when the negotiating framework for negotiations with Serbia by the European Council is adopted, the document will show that Serbia's obligation will not only be to bring its legislation into line, but also to bring its foreign policy priorities into line. It will be a longer period for this country to be in the obligation, but it will certainly end within a reasonable period of time that Serbia is free to choose between EU positions in the area of foreign policy that it will not support. That's possible at this point, but as the negotiations move forward, that possibility will stop. But once again, I say, this obligation will stand within the negotiating framework, which I think will also have an obligation for Serbia to adapt to these circumstances. In the end, regardless of what I was talking about, practically, these are some of our objections as parties and as MP groups, I would like to say that we will vote with great pleasure for this resolution. I cited the reasons at the beginning of my discussion. What I want to conclude with is perhaps the key reason and key point of this resolution, which is the first point of this document, in which the National Assembly is expressing its wish for negotiations with the EU to be completed as soon as possible, and I think that this is the goal of all those who support the European integration process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30557	The word has been made by the People's MP, Karol Chizik.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30558	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is now at the end of the year the night is too long. We're all waiting for the day when the light of day will overcome the darkness of the night. We're in the dark, but we live in the hope of moving towards light. This intention is reflected in our country's policy, we face great difficulties, but we hope for a better future. This faith encourages us, gives us the strength to seek the way out of the social crisis. It is difficult to talk about the resolution now without saying anything about the circumstances in which it was created as a result of the gathering of political events. Serbia has a violent and difficult history, which is abundant in wars, bloodshed, population exchanges, a large number of refugees and displaced persons. The result of all this is today's situation with a catastrophic economic situation, with a convincingly worst privatisation, with a record unemployment rate. It is all part of Serbia's life, as well as a moment of face-to-face with this reality and a break-up with the policy so far. We've reached a turning point in our country's life, when we're going to turn to the future, and we have to explore the past through a shadow of reality, because a country that doesn't have a past will remain without a future. We've come to a crossroads where we can choose the path, the right path, which leads to a goal or another path that is paved by good intentions, and we know where it leads us. We from the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina have always advocated European values, building a democratic society, based on the rule of law and respect for human and minority rights, the principles of market economy as building effective state institutions, in line with EU accession criteria. Here I should point out that we are also in favour of implementing the Brussels Agreement, supporting the legal and institutional fight of the Serb people in KIM, their reintegration into legal social flows and faster integration into the EU. I told them in person, both in the north and in the south, when we had the honour of visiting there in a delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, there are those who think the opposite way, who see the devil in the EU, who are calling for a boycott in the elections, which drive them to barricades. In a democratic state, they have the right to express their views and I am sure that today, at the announcement, long and wide, they will interpret their theories, of course, by showing that this is the most bright way to the greater glory. I don't want to say what initiative they're doing it from, but I can see clearly where they're going to come from by collecting cheap political points like that. We of the AP Vojvodina view these changes from a completely different angle, since we have always belonged to Europe and we cannot imagine the future of our country beyond these frameworks. We feel and know that the ideas we've been standing for for more than 20 years are so strong and reasoned that the current government can't bypass them but is forced to adopt them and show them as its own. We are pleased that after decades of opposition, he has overcome common sense and acceptance of the necessity of approaching the EU. We can only support you in that. I am convinced that even those who are still opponents of this policy do so only out of consistency with the old principles, that they already see themselves at a dead end, but that they do not have the social powers to admit that they have made a mistake and it is only a matter of time before they join us. The working group was formed on 29 August this year by 11 members within the Committee on European Integration, with the aim of drawing up a document that will regulate relations with the government – the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia – committees. Over the past few months, we've been discussing and discussing a lot. We wrote thesis, shortened, repaired, perfected. We tried to make every idea work to the extent that it was eventually accepted by consensus. When that wasn't possible, most of the time. A couple of ideas would be good to put in yet, but we couldn't agree on support. I'm personally sorry that the idea of declaring agriculture a branch of great importance has not passed. That would certainly be justified, because today Serbia lives only on agriculture. If after joining us we cannot keep our poor agriculture from European competition, if that strategic branch falls, we will be exposed to everyone's mercy and mercy. We should have gone out to the farm to meet her and kept her safe, because without a strategic food production branch, we have no chance of survival. It is also a pity that we could not put a member under whom a representative of the Committee on European Integration could participate in the work of the Co-ordination Body Council for the process of joining the Republic of Serbia. I'm afraid that without it, our board will be untimely informed of very important events and we won't be able to react properly at all times. There was a long debate on how to call this document – declaration, resolution, declaration-resolution, or something fourth. We tried to make sure the contents of the document were fully in line with the title. We had to find a compromise, so the document wasn't too bulky, and it still contained all the principles that are important in the accession process. We have tried, in addition to defining the precise integration relations, that the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does not yet come into a subordinate position, that regardless of the fact that the government is in charge of negotiations, the Assembly is nevertheless the most socio-political body of this country. In addition, we also took care of constitutional social organisations in the civil sphere. It's very difficult to find a compromise here, not to go too wide and deep, because in that case, the system will be trom, too massive and powerless. I think that after long and useful discussions, we have found the most favourable compromise that meets all the requirements. We have compared similar documents from various countries, which are already members of the EU and which are still at the accession stage. These documents, of course, differ significantly, primarily because of the diversity of states, and on the other hand, everything changes over time. For example, countries that are now EU members could not be able to join again successfully, at least not in the old way and not in such a way. Times change, criteria are getting tighter, challenges are getting bigger, but every country has its own way, and we have a mission to find our way. I ask all my colleagues and fellow Members, the MPs, that we continue to act with a clear conscience today and that we all send together a message from the EU that we are their friends and that we want to be together again in the European state with the other countries of the Western Balkans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30559	The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30560	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to say in my brief address to the National Assembly, at the beginning, that the JS parliamentary group, in the voting day, will support the motion for a resolution on the role of the National Assembly and the principles in Serbia's EU accession negotiations. Why are we voting for this resolution? For the simple reason that as many years as JS, as a party, JS MPs have repeatedly advocated and advocate that Serbia's EU accession talks with our country begin as soon as possible. All these 26 points of the resolution, each one speaks enough for himself to identify the state of Serbia, its bodies, both legislative and executive, in a desire to make Serbia an equal member of the EU as soon as possible. The JS MPs believe that the date for the start of the negotiations should have long ago been accepted and negotiations started, if the countries from the territory of the former Yugoslavia had become members of the EU, and that, strictly speaking, they had not fully met all the conditions, which they asked for, and when it comes to the rights of national minorities, the use of the mother tongue and so on. I would not use this opportunity to criticise those countries for not doing so, but I would just like to point out and make it clear to those who need to decide these days whether Serbia will start negotiations on EU accession in December or January, that they no longer put any conditions or conditions on Serbia's state, because as a state we have long, long, noting, loud and clear, met all the conditions to start negotiations. I would especially like to commend the earlier governments, and especially this government headed by Mr Dacic, prime minister of government, first Deputy Prime Minister Mr Vukic and the President of the Republic of Nikolic, for all the efforts they have made a few years ago to ensure that Serbia can begin negotiations to join the EU. I would not say anything, on behalf of the JS Parliamentary Club, or add or take away this motion for a resolution, but I would just like to say that we have been giving, giving and giving, I am sure, a full contribution to start these negotiations and when they start to end very successfully and within a short period of time and that the state of Serbia will become an equal member of the people of Europe. Serbia long ago was, it was, it was known, I would not keep your attention, what Serbia is as a state, while it was part of the former Yugoslavia and while it was an independent state, through history, did for Europe, for the world, leading its Liberation Wars. We, as JS MPs, cannot accept that someone who has waged war against some who today have a major word in the EU have an advantage over Serbia, and Serbia has swallowed one great dumpling, when I must say so, not to use another expression, when it has accepted at this time to partially agree with an illegal, anti-constitutional, against all international rights, to take away one of its territories, that is the territory of KIM, that it still accepts an agreement with so-called. With KIM authorities, to start negotiations with them, to successfully end them, and to make it all one of the conditions that it has met so that Serbia can start negotiations on EU accession. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will conclude by saying that we warmly support the JS MPs from the beginning of the negotiations. I hope it'll be in January at the latest. We support the resolution and we will make a full contribution to the successful completion of these negotiations and that Serbia finally becomes a successful and full member of the people of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30561	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Neven the Flowering. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30562	Dear President, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, at the very beginning of this motion for a resolution on the role of the National Assembly and the principles in the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU, I would say why it is good to discuss the resolution today, as a document, rather than possibly a declaration. Now, someone will say, the resolution, the declaration, not the neck, and the differences between these two concepts are purely academic and professorial, but I think this should be explained in the simplest way to those who look at this on small screens, that it's a good thing we have a resolution here today as a document, not possibly a declaration, because in our politics and so on there's a lot of declaration. Declarations are made when we want to, as a state, as a Assembly, metaphorically speaking, peoplely, to nail something. When a declaration is made, it is the Holy Scriptures and it is then firmly concrete. However, when a resolution is adopted, which we are discussing today, it means that the state is realistically looking at a political process in which it is, trying to regulate it and trying, as is the case with this motion for a resolution, to define the role of the National Assembly in the process, and we are ahead of us with the process of accession or the start of negotiations between Serbia and the EU. Again, having a resolution today, not a declaration, means that for us, the EU is not the Holy Scriptures, but it is desirable to have a political process that is in the state interest. The resolution, whose proposal we are discussing here today, means that the National Assembly, as the key and highest authority of the Republic of Serbia, is preparing to actively participate in the negotiations on Serbia's EU accession and that this process, which is very important, will not be hidden from the eyes of citizens, where state leadership would negotiate something behind the back of citizens, but rather this process will be before the eyes of citizens, because it is those who have delegated us to this parliamentary house and to them that we are putting accounts here. This motion for a resolution means that everything the state negotiates, to the very least, passes the filter of the National Assembly, its committees, and will be very public, confirming the importance and role of the Assembly in this process. Thus explicitly in Article 14 of this resolution, I quote: "The National Assembly obliges the Government to inform the National Assembly in a timely and comprehensive manner of planned activities regarding the process of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU". It is also provided for a member of the 22nd resolution that a member of the government, in charge of European integration, and the head of the negotiating team for negotiations with the EU, submits three-month reports to the Committee on European Integration, with the Committee able to request a more frequent report when it finds it appropriate. Let's explain to the citizens who are watching. The process of negotiations with the EU is the process of opening and closing certain chapters concerning certain segments of our society and the Assembly in this process, because the Committee on European Integration, as in this case, has a chance to call for a report on everything that happens in this negotiation process. Finally, the most important member of the 23rd resolution is that the government submits a report to the National Assembly on the course of negotiations with the EU twice a year, when the six-month period of EU Presidency by an EU member state is completed and not only that the government submits a report twice a year for six months, but rather that report is being discussed here in plenary. So whatever's being negotiated, that's what's going on and that's what we're discussing. Any item that is not satisfied with a party, a social group, a civil organisation, etc., can come to the topic of this tide. So, this resolution is not only good and useful, I would say it is necessary before negotiations with the EU begin, because it obliges those involved in the negotiation process to account for their work in front of the National Assembly, which means in front of citizens. The first resolution, as we heard from proposing representatives and distinguished counterpart Natasa Vukkovic, which was adopted on this issue and in general on Serbia's accession to the EU, was adopted in October 2004. I wouldn't repeat what was said, I'd just say honestly to the citizens that since then the circumstances have changed. The state has not strayed from the course and strategic commitment to join the EU. However, circumstances have changed, which is so-called. The state of Kosovo declared independence, which has led us to a new situation. This should be fair and honest here, that our relations with the EU are conditioned by the KIM situation, making our diplomacy a significantly constrained maneuvering space and very much agreeing with our foreign policy, which is forced to balance between several constants. The first is a relationship with Brussels, the EU. The second is a relationship with Pristina. I don't mean to say it with Kosovo, because we don't recognize it as a state, with so-called. Pristina administration. The third is a traditional relationship with the great forces that have an impact on this space, which are before all other Russias, the United States and Germany. Leading foreign policy in Serbia has never been easy, and it is particularly difficult to lead it in the time we live, when it seems to us that there is always something that one of us is asking for without giving anything back. But the task of a country's foreign policy is to solve difficult knots and never put the state at risk of having more enemies than friends in international circumstances, because those countries that have more enemies than friends are unsustainable in diplomatic terms and weak. No matter how difficult or difficult Serbia's demands are and over 100 years have been put on the table since Serbia renewed its statehood at the Berlin Congress, it has not stopped putting heavy demands ahead of Serbia. However, no matter how difficult our demands may be, we must not lose our nerve and need sober and calmly measure what is in the state interest. This resolution whose proposal we are discussing today is a sign that we are aware of all the weights of the foreign-political situation in which we have found ourselves, but that we are not losing our nerve and that we are measuring the situation soberly, not making hasty decisions and not spinning the state rudder suddenly left or right, north or south, east or west. The state remains on the path of joining the EU, but some things have been clarified and clarified by this resolution. I certainly wouldn't repeat what my colleagues said before me, but I would point out a few points. Article 2 of the resolution says that the National Assembly calls on the Government to conduct the EU accession process responsibly and effectively, and this is very important, taking care of national interests. It is particularly important that the concept of national interest is entered into the motion for a resolution, because this means that we are not negotiating with the EU at all costs, forgetting our national interests, but with full awareness that we are doing everything we do because of our national interests and not because of anything else. Article 4 of the resolution points out that we are ready to meet all clear criteria for EU membership, those criteria that met others on the road to EU accession, which means so-called. Copenhagen and Madrid criteria. I don't want to take the time right now to explicitly explain it, but in this Article 4, it is said that the state or society in Serbia, if you will, is ready to meet all the criteria that have met others. But between the ranks of this member, as can be interpreted, it is said that we are not ready to have some kind of moving target in which new and newer conditions will constantly be put in place. So, Serbia wants and Serbia is ready to meet everything that is clearly put before it and what others have fulfilled, all that other countries have been willing to meet, but we expect that Serbia is not being set up by some new additional conditions. This resolution shows that we are not romantic and naive Europhiles, but that we are very realistic, that we are serious people who put public interest first. The European Union, as I said, is not the Holy Scriptures for Serbia, but it is a desirable political process. Why is it desirable? It is a means to provide our citizens with legal and economic security and the highest standards of everyday life, the level of social rights, which is particularly important for us in the SDPS, because it should be said that the level of social rights in the EU is higher than anywhere in the world. However, speaking on this subject, we should say that in the preamble of this resolution, it is justified in this context that possibly full Serbia's EU membership contributes to the overall social progress of the Republic of Serbia and the improvement of its citizens. That's the goal. It is not the goal of an abstract EU that we will love as some distant ideology. The goal is for people who are watching this, Serbian citizens to sense something and bring something concrete to them now. This is particularly visible in point 5 of this resolution, where it is explicitly said that when we negotiate with the EU on accession, we should take particular care of the protection of business branches that are of vital interest to the Republic of Serbia. What does that mean? That means we can't crash into this process. When it comes to business branches that are of vital interest to the Republic of Serbia, we are primarily referring to agriculture, the food industry and the preservation of natural resources. This means that every chapter we enter into needs to be negotiated carefully and that we make sure that the state, that is, society, or economy in Serbia is not damaged. Simply saying, the goal of negotiations with the EU and possible EU accession is to achieve economic growth, not to increase the external trade deficit. We in the EU, to metaphorically express ourselves, are not going there because they share sugars, but we are going to legally regulate our country and in order to build an efficient economy in such a legal environment, in order for this efficient economy to work, to produce something, to sell it, and to finally make a profit together. We are not going to the EU to ruin our economy, we are going to the EU to strengthen it. The concern about the protection of our economic resources in the EU accession negotiations process is also seen in Article 7 of this resolution, because it is explicitly said, and this is very important to explain to the citizens, we who are discussing today and tomorrow need to make a decision on this resolution, that the National Assembly stresses that the most favourable exceptions and transitional periods must be provided, as well as possible deviations, with transitional periods or exceptions provided for all those areas in which there will be no sufficient level of preparation for their harmonisation and application at the time of accession. It gives our negotiating team no easy task to take the last and last item to be carefully examined, to bring an assessment that our society or our economy's sectors need longer transitional periods, which means they cannot adapt immediately to European legislation, so on. The legal assets of the EU that we respect, but we want to preserve in this process everything that is good and healthy in our economy, even if there is not much at this moment, and there is and we do not need to be pessimistic or some kind of masochist who will only criticise ourselves, but we need to fold our sleeves and do something useful for this country. As I said, this negotiating team is given a difficult task, but what the people would say - they know about the heifer by their troubles and we have the right to expect as parliament the negotiating team to do its job in the best possible way in the state interest, in the interest of the Serbian state. Significant and hard work, and that's what we have to say, it's not just gonna be on the negotiating team. It will be on all of us in the National Assembly, and particularly on the Committee on European Integration, which, as a member of the 16th resolution, is inauguration as some kind of flow water heater, where reports from the negotiating team and initiatives will also define the role of the Committee on European Integration in the EU negotiations process. These members, particularly important, clearly define the procedures between the government, the negotiating team and the European Integration Committee in formulating Serbia's negotiating position for each individual chapter we will negotiate. I'm going to give an example of what it looks like. Say, agriculture. European legislation in the area of agriculture tells us that, that and that. We at this famous screening, now that's a new mystical word since we entered this process, we've been measuring what our resources are like. Finally, in the negotiating process, we formulate a negotiating position. In this formulation, we should look out for what is the real interest of our agriculture, in this case agriculture in Serbia. Finally, what is particularly important for SDPS is said in Article 6 of this motion for a resolution, which is that we are leading negotiations with the EU to improve the lives of our citizens, to achieve prosperity and to realise the full social security of our citizens. I repeat, the full social security of our citizens, which means that we are not going to the EU to be some kind of modern slave who will work in other people's poor wages factories, but we are going to meet standards that are enjoyed by citizens living there. We in SDPS especially respect the tradition of so-called "St. European states of prosperity and attain the degree of social rights that is higher than anywhere else in the world and we want to afford that level to our own citizens here in Serbia. That's why we're going to the EU. That's the reason. It's our social-democratic program. So we are not going to the EU to be a cheap workforce living in Europe's basement. We SDPS don't want to live in Europe's basement. It seems to me that we as citizens, as a state of Serbia, do not want to be in the hall of Europe, and that is why we have entered this process and opened this process or are waiting for this pre-accession negotiation process to be opened because we want to live in a European house equal to all the other European peoples, so we are willing to work and much more if you want to and show that we are skilled workers. When our people go abroad, they say they're great workers there, and they don't show such results because the system there stimulates them to work. We want to go to the EU to show that we can work, that we are good and skilled workers, but we are not ready to trade with our own equality and especially with regard to social rights. At the end of this presentation, I would like to say on behalf of the SDPS in accordance with our programme and I am sorry if I will use this for a moment to thank the citizens of the Leaders for supporting the SDPS and for recognising that we are those who do not trade in equality, that we are those who do not trade in social rights. When it comes to this individual resolution, we expect our country and our citizens to be treated equally and respectfully in the EU negotiations process, because we want to be equal citizens of Europe, not European citizens of the second order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30563	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30564	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear citizens of Serbia, fellow MPs, for the New Serbia parliamentary group, this resolution is crucial before Serbia's negotiations with the EU begin. The aim of this resolution is clear that Serbia becomes a full member of the EU as soon as possible, as well as an active and transparent role of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in harmonising legislation with the European one. I cannot mention this opportunity not to mention the importance of the 2004 EU Accession Resolution, which also made it very clear that the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has then firmly defined Serbia-Montenegro's state union as soon as possible as possible to become a full member. Meanwhile, Serbia has come a very long way, as said by the chairman of the Committee on European Integration, MP Natasa Vukkovic and this 2013 resolution, today we are discussing the role of the National Assembly on EU accession negotiations is of operational character and deals with concrete details regarding the upcoming accession negotiations. It is in a very clear way positioning only the National Assembly during the duration of Serbia's pre-accession negotiations with the EU. It is true and very clear that this resolution is clear that the government is conducting negotiations, but that the Assembly is very actively following through a report that the government will submit to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia all that is discussed and negotiated during these negotiations. In my opinion, it is in a very clear and precise way that the role of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Government is defined in a very clear and timely manner by the negotiating team and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on all planned activities in the negotiation process, as well as that the negotiating team and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are to submit a report every six months on the course of the negotiations, and that the report will be discussed at the plenary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For me as a member of the Committee on European Integration, it is very important that this resolution is established very clearly and precisely defined, i.e. the important role of the Assembly Committee on European Integration, because its text obliges the Government to deliver the results of bilateral screening for each negotiating chapter to this Committee, but the Government is also obliged to take into account all the reports and proposals that the Committee on European Integration will make at its meetings and in its conclusions to the negotiating team. All 26 points of this resolution are very important. What I would particularly point out during these negotiations and what I think Serbian citizens should know is the fact that Serbia's goal is to preserve the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Serbian state during this negotiation process, as well as to take into account the respect of tradition and the protection of language culture as the basic national identity of Serbia. So this resolution in each member takes care of the national interests of the Serbian state. It is very important that the importance of protecting business branches that are vital to Serbia under market economy conditions and what negotiations must be conducted in a way that safeguards and improves the level of social rights and their protection of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I think it is very important that the citizens of Serbia, right through parliament, be informed on time and at all times about the course of negotiations with the EU and that they feel better for themselves and their families as soon as possible from the start of the negotiation process. New Serbia's parliamentary group will support this resolution in a voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30565	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vera Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30566	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us the text of a resolution that should determine the fundamental definitions of the Republic of Serbia in the realization of the process of joining the Republic of Serbia in the EU, with a special reference to the position of the Republic of Serbia in this process, and in particular from the aspect of the co-operation of the National Assembly with the Government, as the bearer of this process. The importance of this resolution lies in the fact that this ensures a shared political responsibility for the successful achievement of the accession process. The fact at the same time points to a high degree of political consent, basic political factors in the Republic of Serbia. At the same time, this is a significant political signal in the overall social community in the Republic of Serbia on the need for its engagement in order to successfully realise this process and thereby achieve the interests of the Republic of Serbia within the community we seek to join. The status of candidates, which we received two years ago, as well as the start of the negotiations that follows, certainly imposes much greater obligations on all state authorities than was the case so far. Given the constitutional and legal position that the National Assembly is taking in society as the institution of the legislative authority and the highest representative body of citizens, and also the control role over the work of the Government, it is natural that this House should play an important role in this process and create an example to be followed by other state authorities. That is why this resolution should set guidelines and background frameworks for this process to be completed as favourably as possible by the Republic of Serbia. The resolution itself consists of 26 points that treat different issues of the accession process. First, this resolution confirmed the principle of the majority of MPs and political parties that they are for Serbia's EU accession. The framework for the accession and negotiation process is then defined in several positions of the resolution. I consider it particularly important that the negotiating frameworks are set in points 5, 6 and 7 which are that the negotiations must be so driven to ensure stable economic growth and sustainable development of the economy, that the most favourable exceptions and transitional periods and derogations must be ensured to this end. I don't think I will be wrong if I say that we can all agree that in future negotiations these principles for all those involved in this process must always be absolutely in the first place in their work and operation, so it is quite logical that the motion for a resolution in its first points contains precisely these provisions. A significant part of the resolution is dedicated to the position and role of the National Assembly in the negotiation process. The most important role within the National Assembly will be played by the Committee on European Integration, which, in addition to the obligation to monitor the whole process, will also play an important role in coordinating the participation of other Assembly committees in this process. In this context, it is necessary to establish a much more intensive co-operation with the government in the next period, in particular respecting the fact that the Government is directly responsible for the implementation of the negotiation process, and that the National Assembly plays an excessive control role. On the other hand, it is necessary to further develop co-operation with the European Parliament and the EU Member States' assemblies, because if there is no internal and external coordination, the whole process will hardly have any positive effect. As regards the co-operation mentioned with the European Parliament, I would particularly stress the importance of forming a parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee, composed of representatives of the National Assembly and of the European Parliament, as a mixed forum, to discuss these issues concerning the stabilisation and accession process. This committee represents the most important form of co-operation between the National Assembly and the European Parliament, and the fact is that this committee has held a constitutional session on the seriousness of our intention to fulfill our role as best, more efficient and quality. The National Assembly will seek to strengthen the social and political consensus on the accession of the Republic of Serbia through co-operation with interested social actors, in order to achieve as wide as possible involvement in all phases of accession negotiations. Dear People's MPs, we are aware of the importance of this process, as well as the fact that it is complex, but since we have achieved a majority commitment to move forward in this process, we need maximum engagement both of the state structures, of us politicians, of civil society and of every citizen in particular, and all in order to end the process in the best possible way. Finally, I would like to add that I am pleased that we have managed to draw up the resolution in a short period of time, and I hope that we will adopt it in time to come into force before the meeting of the European Council, which will take place on 19 or 20 December 2013, at which the representatives of the EU Member States will set a date for holding the first intergovernmental conference between the Republic of Serbia and the EU. Due to all of this, the PUPS parliamentary group will support this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30567	The time used by the authorised representative of the parliamentary group is six minutes and 15 seconds. The word has a folk MP, Susana Grubjesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30568	I would like to begin by thanking the working group that made this text of the resolution, which will support the URS Parliament Club. The moment I returned to the National Assembly, the text was already finished and most of the work was really done by the task force and very well. These days, we expect the decision to open negotiations, to join Serbia, and I hope after that there will be no further dilemma that the accession process will become irrevocable. Negotiations are a chance to create an orderly state and it is not a phrase when we say and repeat that reforms must be done for us, not Brussels. Our citizens deserve an independent effective judiciary, government rights, functional market economy, a stable and predictable future. Serbia is historically, geographically, culturally, economically belonging to Europe, and it is necessary for this membership to become political and institutional. It is therefore important for the decision of the European Council to be positive in the coming days and to set a date for the first intergovernmental conference, which will mark the formal start of negotiations. Today's Europe is not the same as 12, 13 years ago when Serbia stepped on its European path, first as part of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, then the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and only since 2006 as an independent state of Serbia. Unlike Eastern European countries, the former communist countries, which, according to accelerated procedures, have entered the process as a regatta, have joined the EU as Ferrari in four, five years. Serbia has started its European path under one circumstance, and negotiations under other circumstances will begin. Today's Europe would certainly not have been recognised by the EU's fathers, starting with Kono Daden, Euro Degesperi, Shuman, and Europe today is very different from that of the first European coal and steel community since 951. Fortunately for today, Serbia no longer has the dilemma of where it is going and, fortunately, there is a political consensus among the main political actors that Serbia's European future is unquestionable. Fortunately, we have also freed ourselves from parols and nonsense and unrealistic expectations from the same EU, such as those that the EU does not have an alternative, both similar and the EU, as a rational choice. The European Union needs Serbia, but Serbia as a central Southeast European country also needs the EU. Several times already, my colleagues said we brought Serbia's EU accession to the first and only resolution in 2004. Today, the URS parliamentary club will vote in favour of this resolution, and G17 plus voted for it in 2004. We fought back then, and today for Europe in Serbia and Serbia in Europe, and for a socially numb society of unprepared and unprepared for systemic activities and changes. Experience shows us that Serbia is difficult to change, difficult to run, and even harder to change. But it is this process of negotiating the chance to create this modern and orderly European state from Serbia, and we must not miss that chance. So, when it's time to vote, count on the support of the URS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30569	Four minutes and 45 seconds of time have been used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30570	Dear People's MPs, Madam Chairman, we can talk today about both the text of the resolution and its occasion, but I'm afraid that this text of the resolution itself has little to do with reality. And it would somehow seem to me to be discussing the menu on the Titanic right after the Titanic hit the big iceberg. We should, above all, take care of the results of Serbia and the EU's past relations, especially since 2008, when it was thought that we have stepped in, as it is said, the irrevocable process and that this European future is less at hand. A lot of indicators, facts, very bad facts, about the results of our trip to the EU at least in the last five years, and that is why I want to talk about it, not one text that is less technical and yet insists that the country's presidential body has an impact on the process of negotiations, but is not wondering where these negotiations lead, how much they cost for the country, what is the result of that agreement that came out of some earlier negotiations. All of this tube has turned around and we can actually close our eyes and talk about the points of this resolution as much as possible that I will mention, but I don't think that's the main topic. In fact, Serbia has suffered more damage than the EU since 2008 and this can be viewed as more elements. First, in territorial terms, in terms of territorial integrity. Serbia has lost Kosovo. The government has recognised Kosovo's independence under EU pressure. It has just received the role of executioner in taking Kosovo away from Serbia, and the job it is doing cold, rational, eyelessly, as its member states once led their colonial policies. It's not just that. Serbia is territorially not stable with or without Kosovo. It's very well known to all of us. This problem that daily destroys public life in this country stands as the sword of Damoh above our daily lives and above all these attempts to reform the state in an economic, institutional legal and any other way. The Kosovo site is not closed yet, and the Vojvodina site is open. If we look at the commission's reports on Serbia's progress since 2009. in this year, we will see that it has not questioned, in any sentence, the fact that Serbia's legislation and the rules of the Vojvodina are contrary to the Serbian Constitution and that they are directly jeopardising Serbia's territorial integrity. The Union had no objection there, given the fact that on many pages it searched every step of this country, every element of its system. So this is not a failure, this is a strategy. Then, if we look at the economic effects of these relationships in the last five years, they are truly devastating. Just in 2008, somewhere in the summer when the government changed, Serbia entered the tunnel at the end of the light, a tunnel in which the light was at the beginning, and ultimately there is no light point. He's lurking around that tunnel and he's always listening to some mystical voice from nowhere to go, but that light doesn't show. It's getting less and less certain. So, since 2008, Serbia has been in a permanent recession as well as the EU itself. According to all economic indicators, it is turning back, it has a constantly growing unemployment, constantly growing public debt, constantly growing budget deficits. All the worst economic indicators, but we still believe that the EU is our development economic chance and we blindly stick to that path at a time when other opportunities are opening up to all of us. So, on this plan, Serbia stands badly, and it is high time that it reconsiders its relationship, if for nothing else, and for economic reasons and economic indicators. The trade part of the deal had a negative effect for Serbia. Then, general social opportunities in Serbia have declined terribly in the last five years. There is a process of disturbance in public consciousness, political awareness, in private opinions and preferences of people. The European Union insists that Serbia accepts, overnight, some post-modern value, to put its entire tradition on the line, to forget its history, to reconsider its close past, blaming it for war and crimes. In one word, as in 2004, she asked CG to break consciousness and now asks Serbia to do so. Someone mentioned there was a community at the time. Let's not forget that in 2006, CG came out of Serbia in line with the brain fracture policy. There's a brain fracture and they've gone on this road where they're not on other grasses compared to us, but now they're asking us to. It is, therefore, a serious disturbance in the public morals sector that the Union is aggressively demanding from Serbia. We can still talk about these negative consequences, but in order not to waste any time, I'm just going to mention that security aspect of things. Serbia, based on the SAA, is the first chapter on political dialogue, under the obligation to adapt to the EU's foreign security policy. Today there is nothing more dim and unclear in its policy or in its policies, as it is said, than its foreign security of defence policy. When we look at its actions, it comes down to individual definitions of individual countries that gather a number of allies within the Union to lead some of the actions around the world, armed character, of course, and ultimately it turns out that it is the interest of a country that is making such propaganda within the Union. This is not regulated by the founding contract, although this last amendment has been quite devoted to this aspect of the Union's action, but it is the least clear, most non-transparent, as we would say today, and we are falling into this matter regardless of our own estimates of how much it is in our interest in today's world and today's Europe that are becoming completely different from the 1990s, where from some unilateralism it has gone to multilateralism and in a completely different way of relations in world politics. We can ask ourselves, exactly what I'm talking about, where is this EU today 2013 compared to some earlier times? Someone before me said that she was like that and that it looks like her father's founders wouldn't know her. I argue that she is not familiar with today's legendary commission president Jacques Delor, who, in the mid-90s, left the post after the second term ended, was more or less clear in which direction she went. The internal relations criticisms in the Union are on that side. The Union, in economic terms, is therefore lagging behind, relatively, of course. She used to have a high degree of economic development, so she's relative to the rest of the world. If you want, she's the only one in serious crisis today. Neither the United States nor the other continents of the country are in an economic or financial crisis, or are much less than the Union today. It has, therefore, since 2008 since the financial crisis hit the world at a zero point in economic development. Many of her parts are in a state of recession, including depression. She can't get out of it. He's trying to do this with non-contractual mechanisms and he's bringing in new stability contracts, etc. Also, it introduces new mechanisms for controlling national budgets, tries through the Stabilisation Mechanism Fund to finance the fallen economies, and none of it succeeds. We have to keep that in mind. So where is Serbia in this EU projection? Nowhere. It is simply by momentum that Serbia serves the Union to train its influence on a small space in Europe and to make it constantly self-related, no matter how much for these reasons that I mentioned the chances of joining a flat zero. How does the Union today relate to other countries in Europe and even to its own countries? Here, the UK announced a referendum on exit from the Union in 2017. Iceland has suspended accession negotiations by completing most of the chapters to be completed for the task. Within the EU itself, within some countries secessionist movements are growing, and it faces the problem as well as those countries. Turkey suspended accession talks four or five years ago. She was lucky she didn't approach, like in the early 2000s, today she'd have the same zero growth rate, not 8.5%, as she did today, if that had happened to her. Let's just look at the attitude to so-called. ‘Eastern Partnership’. It's one project that's failed so far. They failed to attract more than two countries to sign the accession agreement. As far as Ukraine is concerned, it's a special story. The European Union acts as some small emperor who performs tasks for the great emperors and runs a geopolitical game that is not up to it. So, she no longer has that peacetime developmental character, which was adorned in the 1970s, 80s, and also in the 1990s, it became one structure that runs some kind of colonial policy in Europe. Ukraine is the best proof of that. Be careful, they first influenced the fact that Ukraine and Russia were further separated in terms of their already established trade industrial relations, so they put Ukraine ahead of the dilemma – either the EU or Russia? She presented that question as a civilization issue. So it's not a matter of budgeting how much that country, that Ukraine, is worth one or the other, which the government has already clearly done, has shown explicitly that it's better to go towards Russia than to raise the matter to one political, civilizational level, manipulating the issue. So for Ukraine, it was a question of whether to define itself as Western or eastern civilization or, if you want, civilization or not. It is a difficult manipulation, and you will be able to easily identify similar phenomena that occur in Serbia as well. These fragile societies that have come out of the war in the 1990s are subject to such manipulation. The Union, if it had the developmental peacetime character it once had, would intervene in resolving these internal issues, not deepening them, as it does in Ukraine and as it has done all the time in Serbia. We're here to discuss civilizational relations - whether we're going east or west, and that's not a topic at all. Why don't you think about why we should discuss it with each other? Why should we have to adapt to the dictatorship of a structure that, as I said, has lost its soul and its character? We have to take care of that to get this country out of crisis after all. It is not about whether to maintain a partnership with the EU. That's pretty normal. Serbia must be open to everyone. We just claim that this arrangement, this regime that was established, signed in 2008, that it brings great damage and that it needs to be changed. Perhaps it would instill Brussels bureaucracy at some point and accept such a request from Serbia and talk to Serbia as a partner in the right words. No, our governments fell into that space, in that process, and they see no path left or right or slow, but at the highest speed they chase towards that abyss. What does our government do at this time, at this time, at this moment when the situation is as I described it? He again promises to join the EU. I say again, because former Prime Ministers were happy to play with this topic, so for a time this topic was not politically interesting. One Prime Minister will remain in memory only after he said in 2003 that we would become a full member of the EU in 2007. Another negotiator 2008/2009. In 2012 he said that we would meet the condition and in 2014 become a full member of the EU. We are now told again from the top of the government – in 2020 we are entering the EU. You know what, a man needs to be really naive, blanco-confident, not to say stupid, to believe it all. After all these years of bidding, we're back in 2020, and on some lucky date, so come on, let's wait a minute, let's not touch anything, that moment will come. Gentlemen, if you just look at the process that should take place, they say January 21st, if we surrender Kosovo, is that so, by the end, but if it starts then, it's such a technical nature that it can't end faster, but in ten years. So, in the purest laboratory conditions, that nothing changes and that everything flows perfectly, we'll have two years of screening, six years of negotiating with 35 chapters and two years needed to ratify such a single contract. So 14 plus 10, that's 2024. In 2024, it was an ideal time to enter. Do you know how much that is by 2024, how much the world has changed, how much the Union is changing, how much our relationships are changing? Today, no one can predict what will happen in two years, not ten years, without saying what will happen in six years, as we are suggested from the top – just to be calm, calm and careful, not to wave, as it is said, and not to do anything. We have another phenomenon in our country about these European integrations. This congregation reflects it best. It's a state of consciousness. It is difficult today, however, that you have the best instruments of public opinion examination to explore how much the EU is in the mood among Serbian citizens. All the research we've had so far has been largely manipulative, it comes out with a question of whether you want Serbia to become EU members. So the EU joins with what it was and what it is, partly as a stable structure with stable countries, Member States, where there is a rule of law, where material prosperity is enormous, etc. It's like asking a young man of 20 if you'd marry a pretty girl. Of course you would, please. But if he sees that she's a fraud, a liar, a hostappler, etc., he won't get married. Also, with this research, there must be a characterisation of our relations between Serbia and the EU and ask whether Serbia is to enter the EU if it surrenders Kosovo, if it gets rid of some other territorial difficulties and ballast, if unemployment needs to stagnate or be even higher, etc. In such a real situation, people would, of course, answer no. At the end of the line, the other day there was some research, I don't know if it was done well either. For the first time, the question was whether you were in favour of Serbia developing closer relations with Russia, and 67% said that, so 50% will say in the case of such a beautiful issue and with the EU. These things are becoming mutually exclusive, as we can see in the case of Ukraine. Serbia does not have to be defined on either side of the world, not politically, not safely, or militaryly, it should lead its interests and be notified to build interests with other countries, other organisations, etc. That's what's justified and what needs to be done. No, it is fully directed in one dogmatic way in the EU and moves exclusively in that direction, and the collapsed bridges behind it. One day these opportunities that still exist, to turn to other markets that are more open to us, to turn to other sources of funding, etc., and they will disappear, and we will remain the periphery of the periphery. Serbia has never been in a larger province than today, since Karajordje here, has never been a larger province. The European Union itself is developing as a periphery of the so-called Western hemispheres, or Western civilizations. That's why Serbia is in the process of this kind of movement in the periphery of the periphery. Of course, these are arguments that can be made in 20 minutes against this document, but not against this document as such, but against the whole process, against this whole mess, the whole movement that seems irrevocable. So the DSS, for the reasons I've put out, considering this document part of that story will not vote for this resolution at this moment, which will vote against. It's the only way someone can at least stand up to this insidious trend and moving towards the sun.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30571	Thank you. National MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30572	Thank you, President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, in the beginning, to continue where the predecessors have left off, the LDP will support this resolution and support the process of European integration, regardless of who makes up the ruling majority and whatever does not participate in the ruling majority. The reasons for that are also, let me say, wide, large and deep. I will try to use this 20 minutes to show how we see the current situation in Serbia regarding the process of European integration, above all, politically but then try to make some arguments that are somewhat contrary to what we have heard. First of all, I'd like to say that this week is a very important week. Although the ambition of those of us who participated in formulating this resolution was to adopt this document earlier today when I look at it, I think it was great to adopt it on the day of the meeting of the Council of Ministers of the EU, when the Vojvodina Assembly also discusses this topic. This is a week, a week that will leave a deep mark on our European future. What we don't know, unfortunately, is whether this trail is going to be positive or negative. We remain hoping that he will be positive and that through a formal meeting of the Serbian government with representatives of European governments, these negotiations will begin as soon as possible, if possible Thursday. It is also important because this is a point in which for the first time I remember that the debate on the creation of this resolution was conducted not in a way that should explain whether Serbia should enter the EU or not, but in a much more realistic and life-long way that talks about the process completely accepting it and transferring the debate to another level that we believe should have long begun. And whether it is necessary for Serbia to be an EU member, whether it is desirable or not, rather than how it will behave in the process. All those who participated in this discussion, as shown by the discussions of my colleagues in the opening session, were just being discussed. I think we're a little late in that, and it's a good thing we finally started talking about it in a real way. I think this is also the last chance to respond to this famous thesis that is often politically misused, and that is whether the EU has no alternative. I don't think that finding is correct. The European Union has an alternative, as far as Serbia's future is concerned, one of these alternatives and we live, we are not part of the EU. When someone frightens Serbia, the EU is enough for anyone with any dilemma if they still have to look at the life we live today. What no one disputes, not even opponents, the approximation or membership of Serbia into the EU, is that there live much better, more stable, more quality, safer, safer than in Serbia. Is that an ideal model? Of course he's not and who says he's also wrong. But if it's a natural model for Serbia, I'm pretty sure it is. If we look at Serbia's history, tradition, all that we've been saying about it, Serbia is a European country. From my perspective, it is absolutely pointless for someone who deals with politics to see her future in another kind of integration, Euro-Asian or neutrality. If all the countries are around us, yes or will be EU members, from my perspective of politicians who are trying to be responsible for this country above all, I don't think that future for Serbia has any alternative. What is also true is that there are several ways to achieve this future of EU membership. This is clear from the position of the Member States. Some countries have been excellent in the process, and today they live incomparably better quality than some other countries. I don't think it should or I'm sure it's not up to the EU, it's up to us, and above all of us sitting in this room, even though we're not much today. So we can join the EU by claiming that we are already ready, as several speakers today have said, that we have met the conditions, that our administration has full capacity, that it can already be part of the EU today. This will be the way some countries have joined the EU. I don't think those countries have taken advantage of a fraction of the potential that such a community as the EU provides. There are other models. If we look ourselves in the eye today and say that the situation in Serbia is wrong and that we take the European Community as a model by which we should arrange our country and that everything we do is reformed so that it looks like some other EU countries. I think the result will be better, safer, more peaceful, more stable lives of Serbian citizens. It is not a buried treasure in which I need this process of European integration to endure in some kind of guard, waiting only for it to pass, meeting the EU's famous conditions. That path is bad, and if Serbia will continue to move that way, then I agree with my predecessor and I have a dilemma about whether it is necessary to cross that path at all. But that path can also be a kind of work assignment, and if we see how justice is done, how is the market, the economy, the economy, the economy, the health care, education in countries like Germany, France, England, Italy, Sweden, Estonia, and if we are trying to find the best for Serbia, in the circumstances in which we are presently, I am sure that the result of such reforms and such changes will allow life here to be much more dignified, much better, much more quality, and above all much safer and safer. When I think about the EU, I do not see bureaucratic structures and do not see the European Parliament or the European Commission. These things aren't that important. What I see is that some of the friends that each of us has in EU countries are, unlike us, able to plan their lives and not fear their lives and live them with their lungs. They know what happens next year, in two years, in three years, in four years. They know where their only-born kids are going to get into college, what their goal is. They know they're traveling. They know they're visiting their other friends. They know that they are not afraid of disease, as people in Serbia fear, where every disease is a lottery, or its outcome is a lottery. It's the EU, and that's the way we need to see it. Serbia has another special motive. Serbia is a multiethnic country and more or less we are all particularly proud of that fact in this room. The EU is a model of the functioning of a system in which differences are welcome and differences represent advantages rather than disadvantages. It is a country that has managed to solve one of the biggest conflicts in the country's past civilised part, such as conflicts between France and Germany, between France and England. When we say history, history is not in any country, especially not in Serbia, it is not an absolutely positive thing. She has her own bad and her own good side. The EU has managed to organise itself in such a way that these good sides can overcome those bad things in our history. I think it's also an important fact that we have to stick to. The way this resolution was brought into line is, I have been a long MP in the Serbian Parliament for over 10 years, in my opinion, closest to this European way of thinking so far. We were really sitting, a few colleagues said that, sat down and talked and tried to reach a consensus. To the greatest extent possible, we did it. I will also talk in the end about these two significant differences that we have not been able to agree on, one submitted in the form of amendments, and MPs will have the opportunity to make themselves known. I have one more thing to answer. Serbia was in a specific position compared to other countries. It, as you know, began to apply the Stabilisation and Association Agreement without EU support, by a government that seemed somewhat controversial at the time. It has been many years since, but the fact is a constant argument in discussions whether Serbia has made a mistake or not. These were somehow Serbia's worst relations with the EU, because Serbia lifted some barriers, allowed imports, and there it used something called the preferential possibility of exports, so it used a partial export possibility for customs. Since this is a constant topic being discussed, I asked the government to submit a report from the European Integration Office whether Serbia received or lost in the process. I will read to you the government's report, and I am an opposition MP: "Some 19 billion euros of foreign direct investment has been invested in Serbia from 2001 to 2013. Of that, 60% of the investments from EU countries are. This is the highest possible degree of economic integration compared to any other partner. “ In the last two years, therefore, at the moment of the crisis I am talking, which allegedly exists only in EU countries, 90% of total foreign investment in Serbia is from the EU. One of the inevitable consequences of the Free Trade Agreement is the reduction of revenues in the customs collection budget and the reduction of the protection of the domestic market, and by contrast the benefits of Serbia's economy through reduced operating and export costs. What's the score? The benefit achieved by Serbian exporters is increasing year by year. So every year Serbia exports more and more to the EU. Only one year since 2001 has shown stagnation, which was 2009. With circumstances, it was a year in which there was a crisis. Since the entry into force of the Transition Trade Agreement, concluded in June 2013, the overall benefit of preferential exports to the EU market for Serbian businessmen is more than 2.4 billion. That's an exact piece of information. On the other hand, European exporters, or products imported into Serbia, to which Serbia does not charge customs, which is the contrary, have achieved a total benefit from around 860m euros in exports. Serbia has achieved three times more benefits in exporting to the European market than they have achieved, if we mean that this benefit is 800m euros, that it represents a cost or loss for the Republic of Serbia's budget. This is conditional data. We're imagining something that could have been and it wasn't. The benefits are much greater. Products in Serbia are things that would never be produced without the application of the transitional agreement. It has been employed by many more people than would have been employed without the application of the agreement, so even in this worst possible relationship, the benefits were incomparably greater for Serbia than they were presented. The second thing is to constantly question whether Serbia needs to go to the EU at all. The second consequence, in my opinion, is much more catastrophic, which makes it impossible for us to think about which way Serbia is going to the EU, is that the best route? I'll give you an example. While fighting for Serbia to get that so-called. The start date of the negotiations in June of this year, we were completely past one bad thing for Serbia to talk about changing the agreement, stabilising and joining Croatia, where the other tobacco producers in Serbia were at a clear loss. By constantly reviewing these large political issues, we are constantly passing our lives. I don't think it's a bad intention, I don't want to believe it, but we have to start dealing with this process. This resolution, this is to define the role of the Serbian Parliament in the negotiation process itself, and this is the process. It is true that we will not negotiate the content, but we will talk about the date, in this process, we will negotiate the date of application. In this process, we must defend the interest of something that is, the interest of the Serbian economy, or agriculture. We cannot deal with whether Serbia should enter the EU, whether something is a condition or not, because in that time we will enter the most unfavourable conditions and in these conditions we will lose, because even that is a better alternative, than today lives, but we will lose what exists in the economy today, and that is an opportunity cost. I think it's very important for everyone, to learn this economic term, and that's the cost, the loss you have, because there's something you're not doing, and there's no such thing in this Serbia, and even awareness about it. It's the real cost that we have because we're doing one thing today, and we're not doing something else, or profit that we would get by doing the other. I must say that this is from my perspective just a framework and this is an institutional framework, which gives the Serbian Parliament, the Committee on European Integration, or MPs, representatives of all groups of citizens in our society the opportunity to participate in this process. Whether they participate or not in this process depends only on us sitting in this room. Today's presence does not encourage us. So these aren't the boring things we're supposed to be doing. That's no excuse for what's going on past us. I think that this negotiation process is a very sensitive thing, and that unless it is possible to find a consensus on the specific positions that are being negotiated, it is very important that the role of the opposition, whoever the opposition is at the moment that the negotiations begin in this way. This document or this decision that we make today will determine every opportunity for this process to be corrected in the best possible way, but it does not in itself. It'll depend on the people sitting here. And if that's being discussed, and there's no basic interest in us as a representative of groups of citizens, I'm afraid neither the result will be good, even though a consensus has been reached, except, of course, the DSS opinion that I think is extremely important, because at this point it is the only opposite of this. The rest with two open questions. One question: do you specifically name agriculture in this document? The prevailing opinion was that no branch of the economy should be specifically appointed. This isn't a document that would solve the situation in agriculture by itself, so only if we put that word in, then our agriculture will flourish. It's not like that. We've decided we don't need any branches of the economy specifically to name it, not to give it a priority. Of course, all who sit there are aware that agriculture is one of the key branches to be cared for. So it's a false thesis that if there's no words of agriculture in that document that we're less concerned about it, it's simply not true. So time will show. Another thing about which no consensus has been reached is whether a representative of the National Assembly should sit on one of the government's advisory bodies, and be present at all meetings? That's where most of them were against it. The amendment has been submitted, our parliamentary group will support the amendment, we think it is necessary to sit, both in our and in previous cases, in similar bodies a representative of the Assembly sat. In such a body of the Government of Compensation for this, some kind of political was made, it should be honest until the end on the grounds that the representative of the Assembly does not sit in that advisory body, allowing the report from the work of the body to be even more frequent, more dynamic, more summary. So we won't lose. I think it is very important that the role of the Assembly is not just about the reports but about her getting an active role. The argument that the government has given that there is no need to interfere with the legislative and executive authority, in this sense I cannot accept. I don't see that conflict, it's the body for which we've asked for participation advisoryly, it doesn't make decisions, and on the other hand, it would give us and the Assembly full insight into the decision-making process and about a lot of things that will be discussed here, and there will be no part of that formal report. So our information on this could be more comprehensive, thus making decisions that we make, certainly more quality. Finally, I call on you, of course, to vote for this decision, but I also urge you not to take this as a final goal. This is only the first step, and away from the engagement of each of us individually, no matter which party or which group he belongs to. Every group, every citizen's representative in this must have a process. Since not only can the government join the EU, not only can the Assembly join the EU, but citizens and the state of Serbia must enter. In order for them to enter, they must enter, each of their representatives must take part in the process. So I ask you to take this only as a first step and that I simply have to appeal to your engagement and call on it to be as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30573	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Diana Vukomanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30574	I address you on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, which is active in the Serbian government at the same time, and implements a policy of European advocates for European integration, which gives results, and I say at the beginning that we will vote in favour of this text of resolution. We played an active role in harmonising the text of this resolution and I can testify that we were really carefully measuring all of us who participated in the working group every sentence and every word of this resolution because it was long-term. So her duration is a few years, let's say by 2020, when many of us will change at the positions of the government and the opposition. Therefore, this text of the resolution is not made up of any political premeditation, nor of any affirmation, nor of preventing anyone from participating in this process of European integration, convergence and membership of Serbia into the EU, i.e. that it is also a place to express opinions and recommendations for those who, possibly politically or for any other reason, oppose Serbia's accession and membership to the EU. Also, I can testify as a member of the Working Group we have closely followed the experiences of other countries that have already succeeded in what we intend to do, which is to join the EU and our professional services, experts from the Committee on European Integration, which I commend, have prepared a comparative experience that we have relied on in drawing up this resolution. So, Serbia is not a unique case, Serbia is not a sui generis and we are really following positive political experiences and we are trying to strengthen the role of the Serbian Parliament in the political system and in this decision-making process. So we had the paper that had been giving experience that it was Estonia, Cyprus, Lithuania, Macedonia, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Slovenia and Croatia, those nine countries, there were more, these three last waves of EU membership, saw and set the role of the National Assembly. I was really paying attention, even when I wasn't in the O.R. because there was a broadcast over the TV screen, I listened carefully to the presentations of my distinguished colleagues and colleagues from other parliamentary groups, and I am really pleased to conclude that in the previous exhibitions as well as when voting in this distinguished home, there was indeed more than two-thirds agreement on the process of European integration. Of course, there are antiquities, we have heard them today, and I really say that these objections to the process of European integration are in one minority and that such an option in Serbia, I dare say some political prophecy, is indeed weak. In previous exhibitions, we have heard of course, and we have met the public with the text of resolutions, but we have indeed heard let, let me say, tense prophecies and analysis of geopolitical circumstances not only at the current moment in Europe, some comparisons with some countries that are still far from us, which differ in history, but also some black ones, so to speak, the prophecies of the future. However, at the outset, I would now concentrate on the very text of the resolution and on all those midwives who think that the national or territorial interests of Serbia are being betrayed, I must point out the very text of the resolution and say that there is one safeguard clause in the preamble that says that it confirms the preservation of territorial integrity and sovereignty, and that the aim of the Republic of Serbia is respect for tradition and the protection of culture and language as a fundamental national identity. So, as I said, we paid very close attention to the dictionary and to the precise and political, legal, economic formulation of all these provisions contained in the resolution. Also, at point 7 of the resolution, there is another safeguard clause in favour of preserving the interests of the Republic of Serbia, which stresses that Serbia must ensure the most favourable exceptions and transitional periods in order to enable equal inclusion of Serbia into the EU system, as well as possible deviations where necessary and possible. You know very well that in politics you do not get what you think you deserve, but you get what you are and how you negotiated. I think this resolution establishes lines and communication, co-operation and coordination between the National Assembly, between us as parliamentarians and representatives, so to speak, people's will, our government and other institutions, or presidents who also have political legitimacy in Serbia. I am really surprised at the individual colleagues, who are in the minority, that they are so opposed or afraid of Europe. I ask the question - what are they afraid of? authentic Serbia or authentic Europe? Serbia is what it is today, what it has been, and what it can be like, or a Europe that is increasingly developing and increasingly getting closer and stronger on the international scene? We are not in competition with each other within Serbia, we are in competition with both Europe and China and with other great forces. So, I would because of this surprise of mine, what is so controversial and incompatible with the orientation of the current government and most of us towards the EU, so to speak, or antinomically with the values that we advocate both in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and in the political majority of our political programmes. So I stress the values, which are also highlighted here, in the text of the resolution, because these are fundamental values, these are the governments of rights, democracy and the market economy. However, in order to be quite realistic, we are aware that difficult conditions are being set in this process of negotiations before Serbia and that this is one process of negotiations, perhaps with an uncertain outcome, but in which the government manages to make accelerated and sustainable compromises. That is why we insisted, at least from the SPS, on my satisfaction that it is accepted within the working group and confirmed by the Committee on European Integration, that in the formulation at point 4, where it is said to highlight the mandatory respect for all irresponsible criteria for EU membership, we call for a fundamental determination of these criteria expressed by the European Union in Copenhagen in 1993 and Madrid at a meeting of the European Union in 1995. We are aware and we cannot escape from what is known throughout the public of Serbia, which is that it exists, that it is in circulation, that it is in some negotiating agenda, but not in the official, so-called. British-German non paper, a paper that is not official and that different countries, in line with their interests and their standards of achieving political, economic, democratic rights, require Serbia to adapt speedily. This call to fundamental values is something that is our foothold. As I said, it's not something foreign, it's not a foreign word, it's not foreign values, principles and principles that are not written in our Constitution and in the political programmes of most democratic parties, I would dare say, all of us sitting down, from different political groups in this House. I stress, what is the value of Europe and what are our preconditions, we do not need to frighten our citizens from what Europe is asking in a political sense, which are stable institutions, the rule of law, democracy, respect for human rights, protection and respect for minority rights, economic conditions, a functional market economy, and that is something that is our goal of life, that we are able to strengthen our economic capacities, to cope with the pressures of competition of market forces within the EU. You know very well how difficult it is to survive in these developed markets in Europe and beyond. The capacity to undertake membership obligations, including commitment to objectives, political, economic, and monetary unions. Also, in these documents, Copenhagen mentions absorption capacity, and what we really hear in our contacts with parliamentarians from Western Europe, that Europe itself also feels saturation, especially of individual countries, in fear of asylum, in fear of refugees, in fear of unstable Member States. They indeed point out that they are also paying attention to their absorption capacity, i.e. that each Member State will be evaluated according to that criterion, how capable it is of adapting to EU standards, or by adapting to not endangering the moment of European integration. Therefore, no Member State can lead to a stalemate. Madrid, 1995, insists on gradual and harmonious integration. So, at our points of resolution, at points 5 and 8 of the emphasis, my esteemed colleagues talked a lot about economics, this debate within the working group, within the Committee on European Integration, said that we would apostrophe a branch of the economy for which we have potential in that competition. When you look at the dictionary used in point 5 of the resolution – rapid, stable economic growth, protection of business branches from vital interest, sustainable development, implementation of economic and social reforms, completion of the process of economic transition, the development of knowledge-based economy, the achievement of a stable financial and macro-economic environment, it is then found that this process of harmonisation, harmonisation with liquids, the legal assets of the EU are not really controversial. We can't be afraid of that. We must not be afraid of that, because this strengthens our potential for going out to world competition. I appeal to my colleagues from other parliamentary groups, who are in the minority, not to scare the public, or to express any defetism, not to call in their predictions on the development of a political situation in these areas, as if within Serbia some new iron curtain would be withdrawn. Indeed, we are also too small in this world or European competition to allow these to split into pro-European forces, I will say avant-garde, or those national-oriented, I will not say retrograde forces, that the line is drawn among the citizens of Serbia. Together with my colleague, Comic, from the DS, I had the opportunity to stay in Ukraine recently, and at a meeting of the OSCE Council of Ministers, and there we could personally see that the political struggle or the civil struggle for Europe seemed to be on the streets of Ukraine, I will not say against Europe. Maybe that line divides closer to Russia. If we carefully read the analytical articles without going there, we will see that there really is no clear division in Ukraine itself, that iron curtain between Europe and Russia, between the East and the West, but that different regions within Ukraine, which are closer to Russia, are defined for Europe. So public opinion, political manipulation, political discourse with whether or not we are for or against Europe, and that in this geographically, geopolitically we belong to this soil, I think it is in vain and that it will by no means yield results. At the end of my presentation, I would like to stress that this text of resolution sets out very precise lines of communication and coordination between the National Assembly, particularly stressing the very important role of the Committee on European Integrations, but we have also given space to other committees who will be able to engage in the negotiation process, given the workarounds of various negotiating positions, and the Government, which we have encouraged in this text to actively continue to implement the national programme for the adoption of EU flows and to inform us in good time, so that we can adopt our work plan, as well as to bring this legislative action into line. We have also identified, as potential partners, not only the Government, by the way, as representatives of the government, whether it is the minister in charge of European integration or the head of the negotiating team who, as well as the Government, have an obligation to submit three months or more often, or government six months of reports to the National Assembly on the negotiation process, to be in one constant communication and to inform the public about it. As potential partners, we have identified civil society and the professional public. It is a broad coalition for Serbia's modernisation, not only of Europeanisation, because ultimately, Russia or some of our friendly peoples, such as China, are really in an accelerated process of modernisation, where all borders are being destroyed. Indeed, this division of Europe, Europe, Russia, China, the BRIK countries, America, in the 21st century, will grow weaker and weaker. I think we in Serbia have the potential to be both citizens of Serbia and citizens of Europe and of the world. So what I want to stress is that a high degree of consensus has been achieved, a high degree of consent and I simply ask that this opportunity is not used when we need to define the role of the National Assembly not only in power, but also in opposition, with the predicting that in the coming years we will not really use this pay phone to produce any kind of fear, defetism or confusion, but simply to look at very realistically those figures that my colleague Andric, for example, is. I said, 'cause numbers are the strongest arguments. So again, I stress that the SPS will vote in favour of this resolution and that we are truly satisfied with the role and principles set out in this resolution. We think that we parliamentarians, who have the legitimacy of citizens in the elections, will really be able to influence the direction and speed of Serbia's convergence and membership in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30575	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30576	Madam Chairman, it is indeed a pleasure today to be a National MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to see one almost general consensus on what direction our country needs to go and another confirmation of Serbia's European path and European commitment. The colleague who spoke before me mentioned the current developments in Ukraine, which we all follow with the necessary attention. What was unimaginable in Serbia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a few years ago, is now happening. What we have seen in the streets of Ukraine and what we see, we have seen in a much more pronounced and more deviating form for years in the streets of our cities, even in front of this National Assembly, and in the building itself of this National Assembly and the struggle for the general, political and social consensus for Serbia's European path was long lasting. We in our political group expected it to be faster, more efficient, but the circumstances were as they were. Many resistances and brakes were on Serbia's European path. Except for one political party, which was once on the European path and which, without deep conviction of its political views, seems to me, to me, more for the sake of achieving political goals in the electoral body, is now counterargumentation, which is why I do not need to be a full member of the EU, to give up Serbia's European path. I say, it is my pleasure and we simply dreamed of this day when all political parties, including the political party of the SPS, who was somehow with the SRS the most amazing European party in Serbia's political life after the recovery of the multilaterals, will indeed be very pleased to participate in such a debate today. I say, even those who are against the European path of Serbia do so in a polite and civilized way. This resolution is adopted at an important political moment, when we are as a country that has EU candidate status, it expects both a concrete date and a first international conference. The very text of the resolution has nothing to object to. We have also followed the process of making the text itself and, above all, it is a reflection and it seems to me, a sublimation of everything that is happening in the current political life and everything that really exists to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which, as far as its basic legislative activities are concerned, has made a major contribution. Let's not forget, it's just that in the last term it's over 850 so-called. European laws adopted in the process of harmonising our legal system with EU legal assets. It must be acknowledged that since 2000 all governments have done the most on Serbia's European path, to improve our image, which was disastrous in 2000, to connect with neighbours, to establish and normalise better relations in the region. But what greatly devalued the so-called. The European path of Serbia, it is also an unfair privatisation and an intolerable, intolerable degree of corruption and crime, and it seems to us, a late understanding of all governments about the need to adopt a real policy towards KIM, which is primarily about protecting the Serbian population and the historical and cultural heritage of KIM. We believe that this resolution, because this will certainly echo in the European Parliament, will immediately be known by the European Commission and all the European institutions and parliaments of the EU member states that Serbia, with one of these resolutions, has confirmed in a strong way not only its European path but also excellent coordination between the institutions most important on this European path, which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. All that is stated in the very text of the resolution, from our goal of becoming a member of the EU as soon as possible, that we should take care of the protection of economic, national, social and all other interests, that is something that is several times in the various documents and decisions mentioned. We literally do not have any specificity or something that is spectacularly new, because the most important political gain of all of this is one strong political message that we will send, because this resolution will probably be a document that will be adopted with the largest possible majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since our political group belongs to the European right, I do not think it is a waste to say that the EU's creators were indeed European right-wing, by Conrad Adenauer, Charles de Gaulle, Shuman, etc. and that we often lacked political courage because we were not engaged in state affairs, because many who were in power only cared about how to retain power in the next term, not about the wider state and national interest. It was often meant to have the courage Winston Churchill had in 1945, when in a destroyed London, destroyed by the Germans, he said – it's time for the United States. He should have often had the courage of Helmut Kola, who, at the moment he only had a third of the support of the Germans to give up the national coin, of the breast mark, believed that Germany's top national and economic interest was to introduce the euro, which was shown through time. We have heard and we believe and share the political opinion that Russia should be loved, that economically we should co-operate with the Russians, etc., but neither the Russians nor the Euro-Asian Union themselves are calling for Euro-Asian values. In a civilized world, the highest countries, the highest standards of economic protection, social protection, human rights, minority rights, endangered populations are right in the EU countries. I am prepared to conduct any discussion on this issue, to make an argument that will surely undermine any political counterargumentation. In economic terms, if our biggest investment is from the EU, if our biggest imports are from EU countries, if we export the most from the EU, if the biggest economic gain is co-operation with the EU, then there is no doubt. What's interesting is that at a time when Serbian statehood was created and restored, it was then that an illiterate ruler, Prince Milos Obrenovic, at a time when Kragujevac was the capital, among which state he should go, whether he should go to Europe or be left in co-operation with the East, first of all with the Ottoman Empire, defined himself as Europe. There were so-called Kragujevac at the time. The house of the manager, but Milos Obrenovic built the first Kragujevac high school. The project was done in Vienna. The first theatre in Serbia, the Book-Serbian Theatre, was created again in the reputation of European theatres. The first higher school, Licej, first court, first Serbian newspaper, first printing works, first military-technical institute, military industry, established the first state museum orchestra, etc. At a time when Serbia was freed from the Ottoman Empire, when Serbian illiterate leaders wore Turkish fesses and signed with a cross because they were illiterate, they had a clear state plan - to send the least young people to school at European universities, London, Pest, Vienna, Madrid, Rome, to return later and establish state institutions and give birth to Serbia, which has indeed happened and Serbia has in every respect experienced its take-off, both industrial and military, and political, and economic, and it has a proper foreign policy and here, now, in the days when 100 years since the start of World War I and all wars, including World War I and Balkan wars, was on the side of European allies and it has come out as a winner. Because of all those who, due to the European path of Serbia, were first and foremost in the years 1990 to 2000, but many and after 2000 lost their jobs, demonstrated, left the country, were mobilized, beaten, arrested, killed, beaten, beaten, I was in front of the SPO, who was the leader of 10 years of fighting for European Serbia, I have to pay tribute to every citizen who may think that his contribution to Serbia's Europeanisation was small and may think that because he personally or she lost a job or experienced another discomfort of losers, I believe that with the accelerated European route of Serbia and with the full application of this resolution on the closer and closer co-operation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Serbia, in the future we will build a more modern, better and fair country and give satisfaction to every citizen who contributed to Serbia's European life and its better perspective. As for SPO and DHSS, we had no doubt at one time whether to stay on the European path of Serbia, because someone today mentioned something wonderful that stands in our programme – unity of diversity. In the EU, there is room for everything, for the republics, for the kingdoms, for the left and for the right and for the theeists and atheists, it is important that we all share the same values in terms of, above all, human rights, in terms of economic rights and freedoms, and Serbia with its huge potentials, above all with great potential in the areas of agriculture, healthy food, energy, water, with its knowledge, with its culture, seems to me with full membership in the EU to see the best development economic opportunity, but at the same time it will have a major impact on improving the security of the country, which, in the last 20 years, has often been very threatened. It is a very painful issue between Kosovo and Metohija, but also Kosovo, currently beyond Serbia's borders, will have to be Europeanised. What was once a joint state of Yugoslavia, with a common legal system, a common economic system, a common political system, with common values, will be the EU for Serbia as soon as Serbia is an EU member. What is the basis and roof of the SPO programme - Serbia in Europe, Europe in Serbia, is the most important for us in political terms and therefore, the SPO will always support these resolutions and everything that is on the trail of this policy, but at the same time, as we have done so far, we will always brand and criticize anti-European behaviour, because it is not enough just for this European mantra – here we are Europeans, and under the auspices of the European system for both crime and corruption and unfair privatisation and many things that devalues the European story and the European future of Serbia. For all the reasons I put forward, in the voting day, I say once again, we will absolutely support this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30577	Thank you. National MP Slobodan Samardzic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30578	Since certain qualifications have been given in the previous two speeches to what I said, although I am not mentioned by name, but I was the only one who spoke or opposed this general trend, I have a need to respond in a few words. Namely, I've presented the reasons why the DSS thinks this isn't good, that other paths should be sought, etc. There are reasons why the DSS once supported this process of European integration and participated in it and there are reasons why it does not do so today. He took it out on this other one, especially today. We've had certain qualifications on such a single discussion that it actually sows fear and defetism three times. Then the DSS used to participate, and now it's not involved because of the political score. Namely, these are poor performance indicators in the Assembly and the very incriminating of that part of Serbia's political spectrum towards a kind of monolithism, towards a kind of exclusive thinking, which one cannot bear to think differently and otherwise to organize himself publicly. So here we also had a reaction where they were brought against the reasons for what I said. That is the way to discuss these matters in the congregation and completely deprive these old - fashioned ways of thinking. I remember in the '70s and '80s. There were people in Serbia who advocated political pluralism, and it bothered the monolithic structure of a state party that had self-government as its goal and went there, and only a decade later we entered political pluralism. It is simply necessary, on behalf of some old European values, not of these EU values which are slightly different, to defend freedom of opinion and normal discussion if possible without qualifications. Namely, they are not offensive and I do not react because I could not bear it, but it is the order that they are in the name of pluralism, however threatened by a certain consensus and consensus is normal to allow everyone to speak as they think and should not qualify.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30579	National MP Diana Vukomanovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30580	Replica, since he's a respected colleague of the Professor's. Samardzic recognized himself, i.e. He quoted parts of my presentation, specifically sentences. I don't know why he didn't mention that I also used terms – the consent of antiquity, what are the key words in the title of his book "Europe after Mastricht – Consensus and Antinomy"? I have not said a single word to an esteemed colleague, nor to his parliamentary group, or to a particular political party. I was just saying that it is inadmissible in the conveyed meaning of labeling and sorting political parties in Serbia on patriots and traitors, as this stems from his exposure. No one in Serbia, I'm adding to my presentation, no seal of truth. We're just going to the polls. The degree of our support is overwhelming, and their range is between 5% and 7%, and I only find that this kind of fear of Europe or fear of authentic Serbia, and today Serbia is authentic Serbia, pro-European and modern, promotional, pro-reformal Serbia, that it is simply something that has survived and this kind of political discourse and this kind of political dialogue will all be quieter and quieter. I think that we are all committed here to dialogue, to one cultural and democratic dialogue, where in no sentence of my presentation, no one could feel offended, but also as beautiful political qualifications for pro-European politics, I can also remind myself that in the agenda of the party we are currently conducting the dialogue are precisely these fundamental pro-European values. That kind of confusion is even bigger.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30581	Thank you. National MP Slobodan Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30582	No, as I recall in my speech, I didn't mention patriots or Europeans. Why do I get this now when that wasn't what you were talking about? counterpart Vukomanovic spoke about a party that brings fear and defetism into Serbia's public life, in a context in which I was the only one to speak critically about the EU. So we don't need to run away from the debate, we need to run from the qualifications. I didn't use them, and my colleague Vukomanovic did. However, she respects my qualifications again, and she forgets hers, considering that I have not exposed anything. We need to get back to a quiet tone when we're discussing this. I know there's a rock in a shoe that's pulverizing now, but I'm sorry, and he has the right to live, at least in a democratic society. If we're really going down the off line, even this one, if you want rhetorical and political exclusion, we're going to get to that monolith. It may be the ideal, that 100% of the people in Serbia want to join the EU, but I think it's a pathology of public life, and I cited one example from about ten, twenty, thirty years ago, which is not so old, although I remember it well. I just want to point out that kind of resemblance that we've already passed as a society, that reminds me of what's going on today, and I want to point out the problem of that kind of ideological identification and just identifying nothing more. I don't know why there's something going on right now that I haven't said.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30583	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Diana Vukomanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30584	One little correction. As long as we're so detailed, I appeal to be used in the Assembly by a gender-sensitive dictionary, so I'm a colleague of Vukomanovic, not a colleague of Vukomanovic, at least I hope it's obvious. Under number two, Kosovo has been mentioned, and this is the false dilemma, which is for Europe, it is against the preservation of territorial integrity and sovereignty, i.e. Karl Blanche is giving consent to Kosovo definitely secede from Serbia. So that's the kind of thing, so to speak, tense rhetoric and tense logic that doesn't come out. These kinds of premises if you are for Europe, then you are against Kosovo are not in a sustainable way to conclude. As we speak directly through the microphone, I also mention that I am in fact realizing that Professor Samardzic is on the pro-European side, which is why the subject he teaches at the Faculty of Political Sciences is facing Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30585	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30586	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the document that lies ahead of us is of paramount importance. I'd say one of the thousands we're going to discuss and vote on in the National Assembly. There are such documents, which do not deserve much media attention, which do not deserve much political passion within the board of the National Assembly and at the very tide, but which produce profound, irreparable consequences for political social, cultural, economic, state and any other processes in our society. The motion for a resolution that is ahead of us in the role of the National Assembly in the accession process, i.e. negotiating with the EU, is one such document. I had the privilege and privilege of being a participant in the adoption of the first document of the resolution on Serbia's EU accession, which was brought in October 2004, and there was one similarity, too, that did not produce media attention. He was also more of a hand-moving subject than we really did within the institution and in society were dealing with the details of the document, and from these few sentences, from those several points in the 2004 Resolution, everything that has happened in Serbia in the last nine years has come to pass. And because I find it extremely important, I want to earn your attention by mentioning a small number of people who have invested their time, their knowledge, their work, my enthusiasm, my motivation, my ideas in changing Serbia by the principles of European integration that have been in various places, starting with the service of the National Assembly to say thank you for the support and work on the document in which we participated as a working group on the proposal of the Committee on European Integration, therefore, about a document that is before you, which, without the service of the National Assembly of the European Integration Department, would not be possible. Also, I want to mention the names of various people with the hope that I won't forget someone important and advance with an apology if I forget someone. People who participated in the process of European integration between these two resolutions, from those who managed the Office for European Integration, so European Affairs – Radmila Milivojevic, Tanja Miscevic, Milica Delevic, Milan Pajevic, through the President and President of the Committee for European Integration – Ksenije Milivojevic, Suzane Grubjesic, Lasla Varge, Milice Delevic and now Natasa Vukovic, to ministers in the government who received European integration and from Goran Pitic, who worked as minister of economic relations with the government between 2001 and 2004, via Bozidar Djelic, Branka Ružić, Suzanne Grubjesic. I will certainly forget a name, and once again, I apologize to anyone who has invested their time on one of the public affairs assignments, while dealing with European integration. I want these names to become part of the collective memory of this institution and mentioning them I want to show a spirit of European integration that is contained in continuity. The changes that bring with them European integrations never cease and the changes that take place are always taking place with the least necessary but necessary agreement, the consensus of all of us, what is in agreement with the EU today, with the European Community sometimes, we need to do to improve the state of human rights, to improve the rule of law, to reduce corruption and crime, to support the independent judiciary, to build freedom of the media, to control the application of human and minority rights, to work to reduce discrimination and injustice in society, to know that our country is part of the common market and market economy, by the rules that are equal or approximate to all, to remove bureaucratic, ideological and any other barriers to private entrepreneurship, and that, in some foreseeable time, we can say to ourselves – we have built a lot of good things in our society, in our country, in our country, and in Europe's response to European policies, as well as our own. They were never a matter of foreign policy. European integration and the way the state is organised has always been, will be and will remain the issue of internal policy. So a brief examination of at least the part where I directly participated and the part where I testified. Between 1990 and 2000, when there was a renewal of multilaterals, we had permission to establish political parties and to start rebuilding what democratic states otherwise have as their components for hundreds, or dozens of years, in that first decade we had no problem with dialogue on whether or not we would be part of the EU, at least some of us. I chose to belong to a political party of the DS that has this in its programme as one of the goals, since the renewal of work, by letter of intent, since 11 December 1989, or the founding assembly of February 1990. We haven't had a dilemma in ten years because we weren't part of the international community, to our mutual regret and to the common damage. We had sanctions, there were no export figures, deficits, budgets, there were no problems about whether or not they would be spent on travel, because we were not members of the UN, and this is a factual period of full isolation of our country, regardless of whether it was anyone's intention. I don't believe that you can have a policy where you intend to be an isolated state, an isolated society, unless you're North Korea, but I believe and it's very obvious that you can have the results of a policy that leads to common damage, it's completely independent of who supported that policy, who didn't. I wish we were all for the EU in the 1990s and we were in one of the enlargements, together with Finland in 1995, but we weren't. That's why it's groundless today for dialogue, I'm only talking about a reminder, a timeline, about various events that are related to the EU. From 2000 to 2003, Serbia, or the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, was only a member of the UN. We had nothing to do with the European Union, nor were we part of the integration process. Unfortunately, we also became a member of the Council of Europe only on 3 April 2003, following the assassination of Zoran Djindjic, because until then they said we had not met the conditions in the fundamental respect for human rights that the Council of Europe requires of its members. It was only 21 June 2003 at the EU summit in Thessaloniki that we set out our request to become a member of the EU and start the accession process. It is the real beginning of the European changes in Serbia. In the previous period between 2001 and 2003, the Government of the Republic of Serbia unilaterally decided to harmonize its legislation with EU legislation and all that we did in the Assembly, following that decision by the Government, it was to move away all that was necessary to do in that time fast enough and far enough from the time without the control of public finances, which are the rules that were made in that time, the Law of Labour without laws concerning tax reforms, etc. Each of us is available to look at all the list of laws that we have made at that time with a simple decision to consider our obligation to do as much as possible to be prepared for the moment when Europe will really start working with us. This happened with a positive decision on our request, so the Assembly's 2004-2007 assembly practically hit the groundwork of what we have today as instruments dealing with the EU or helping the National Assembly deal with EU issues and problems. In October 2004, the MPs, as well as this resolution, signed a resolution on accession and it was adopted and created both the office and the office's obligations to submit three-month reports and monitoring, and of course there were bodies that could have a dialogue with the EU on what is happening in Serbia and whether a feasibility study is the right time to be presented. And it happened at the same time or something earlier than one of the members of the former SRJ, i.e. the state union of SCG on 21 May 2006, decided in a referendum on its independent path. It is a defacto key moment for Serbia too because, by the luck and will of the people in CG, we have become an independent state in the referendum. In 2006, otherwise it is not a good year to remember when the issue of Serbian integration is because they were practically frozen relations with the EU because it was due to insufficient, incomplete co-operation with The Hague tribunal, which was another of the major commitments Serbia had before the international community and before the EU until recently, until 2010 or 2011, when the co-operation ended. The process that has been particularly burdensome for Serbia is a relationship with KIM, or a situation during which one-sided declaration and our country's strategy were announced – how to harmonize your position on the obligation to safeguard the integrity and unity of the state, and yet make changes in the state. During 2007 and 2008, the government's term of office in 2007/2008 and the government's term of office 2008/2012 took a few more steps in European integration. A Stabilisation and Association Agreement has been established. We have filled out the questionnaire that the EU has put before the countries that join. We have gained candidate status, or the status of an associated member, so that the government, in its 2012 term, which is currently under way, will now be a government that begins negotiations. It is a European spirit of what you do when you want to arrange your country, continuity, consent, but most important – dialogue. If you want to look at what is the most significant difference between successful and developed countries in today's world, those that lead to ideas, those who wonder what will happen in the world in ten or twenty or fifty years, these are EU countries, the United States, countries that make up Russia, Brazil, China, Australia, and this last group called Brickte has recently introduced dialogue as a means. The dialogue is the most powerful tool that is also a strategy of democracy. Only if you are a dialogue society in the 21st century can you really be a successful society. As a society, we have a problem with defining ourselves as a dialogue society. We are more prone to myths, we are more prone to disobeying the other, and we are more prone to attitude; I know all that I have to listen to anyone else about anything else. European integration will force all those who are not yet inclined to participate in the dialogue to be part of this dialogue and to contribute as these people, women and men I have mentioned, who over the past ten and 13 years have invested part of their work, their will, their political and social beings in changing Serbia according to the prescription of European integration. What is the subject and content of the resolution that lies ahead? It defines what happens to us when we negotiate in ten, 15 or 20 years from now. That's very rare because people usually say it's boring. Give something interesting, who told whom and what was in Brussels, and as this debate does not cause media attention, so unfortunately it will not even negotiate and I will give you just one example of what it looks like when you're having a bad negotiation, a famous example that is always being passed through the negotiation dialogue – because it did not negotiate well and because it did not properly assess the obligations of Chapter 27 – legal fluids, which concern environmental protection and energy efficiency, Slovenia had to close the only refinery it had. I can also point out such examples for enlargement when Croatia is last, both for Bulgaria and Romania and for ten countries that joined in 2004. It is therefore important to read carefully what we as a working group have proposed in the resolution ahead of us. Why is it important that the National Assembly plays a consultative role? Why am I going to vote for an amendment that includes the presence of a member and the establishment of a position for negotiations? Because the negotiations, these 35 chapters divided by all parts of society, mean in the most part, almost 40% environmental protection and almost 20% agriculture, because we're going to decide how much we're going to have in ten, 20 or 30 years ahead of today when it comes to the number of trees, the area under the wine line, the ways in which the refineries will work, the ways in which they will be obliged to respect energy efficiency, whatever you want from everyday life to know what it will look like, it will be negotiated. We believe that it is important to have information, not to dispute the support of the negotiator, both technically and politically, that it will always have the support of the Assembly to achieve the best possible position. Why does it matter? Because knowledge is what counts in the EU and because their experience and their knowledge, I am not happy to say it is much greater than ours and because it will always make it clear to you if we dare to be very proud of our own ignorance and in places where there is no ignorance, we show our opinion and attitudes about the process in which we should be direct participants, such as negotiations. I am absolutely sure that Serbia is at a point of no return. I will be very happy to participate in any kind of dialogue, in any kind of thematic debate on whether Serbia has decided best from its point of view and ideas and ideological and personal and political, however you wish, that Serbia has done the best possible thing in 2003 for the EU application that we could ever come up with as a society. Do we miss dialogue? So much. Are we all ready to participate in this dialogue? There's no one to make us do it, except ourselves. We can free will that, like so far when there have been various important issues, so this resolution, we say -- we know that, it's irrelevant, it doesn't matter, let me hear what this president said, that president, what was in the paper, it's like saying a few sentences, it doesn't matter, it's going to pass. It will not go away, and this is the key to the process that European integrations are serious about non-dialogue societies, because it is a very expensive price if you miss out on being serious, thorough, to give up on surfaces, to give up the habit of just passing something, and to really participate in a process that is of great importance for all of us. Speaking of names, if I deserve your attention to listen to me, you've probably heard quite a number of female names. It is another feature of European integration. There's a lot of work to be done, and there's not a lot of fame, not a lot of money. That's why it's usually a woman's job. The moment a full membership is entered, when the negotiation process is completed, the number of women is suddenly reduced. I would also like to make an effort not to let all valuable women from Serbian politics, Serbian economies, Serbian finances, culture, sports, agriculture, environmental protection and the Serbian academic community remain committed to the dialogue that will seek with negotiations and participation in what will ultimately be a definitive decision on the date for membership. It is irrelevant when a membership date is set, it is important how much we will change and where we change according to EU rules. It is a key issue when it comes to Europe and therefore the EU is a matter of internal policy and never of foreign policy, even when it comes to security and common foreign policy. It's also a topic for dialogue in our country, in our society. What is the main message of European integration, i.e. dialogue between the EU's national parliaments and the accession state? That message that changes your world view. We have spent a very long time in Serbia and in this region and we are still having discussions about what has been done to whom in history and who has hurt whom, and the EU's message is that our children and grandchildren will live and what they and what good they will do to each other. Please vote together for the motion for this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30587	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30588	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents, fellow MPs, I am pleased to speak before the SNS today about this important resolution and as a member of the working group who has participated since the beginning of this resolution. I wish some part of the debate had gone a different way, but good. Why not, we're in parliament, we should change our concepts of exposure, so in that sense, I'm going to change something from what I wanted to say. First, of course, the text of the Resolution itself has some basis in the previous Resolution of 2004, but the resolution also responded to the political context of that time. Of course, many things have changed since then, and therefore there was a need, a real need to establish a new formal document and a formal framework for what the National Assembly should do in this important process of Serbia's EU accession. What I didn't want to mention and what I didn't want to discuss, and as soon as I said this, that means that I'm going to discuss it anyway, is one principle, namely the difference between the two principles on which you can take a stand on the need to adopt such a formal document. On the one hand, it seems to me that some of the debates and fellow MPs have prevailed some of the general principles on which a certain policy is based. On the other hand, it seems to me that there is a good motivation for all of us to talk first and foremost about the role of the National Assembly and the ways in which we, as MPs, can strengthen the institution itself, give importance to ourselves, in the end, but also that through such an established mechanism we also establish mechanisms for all future convocations or at least one co-existence, because the process itself will exceed one convocation for those who participate in this process. I therefore stress, however, that the institution of the National Assembly is important, not only to its legislative one, but also to its supervisory and advisory role in the accession process. If we take the general political views concerning both geopoliticals and geoeconomy and, ultimately, the ideological dimension of each political party, of course it is not only the right of each party, but also the obligation of each political party to compete in a political game and go to a political market. Therefore, we all ran for our positions on this in the elections and received some support for it. It doesn't matter if we're Euroentusians or Eurosceptics or Eurosphobes, it's all legitimate, but the question is how much support you get for such a candidate policy. The Serbian Progressive Party has run its policy against the need for integration processes that will best contribute to Serbia's progress. I don't know if Serbia should be anywhere. I would like Serbia to always be part of some integration process, but of course we define ourselves in which form, in which models and where it will belong. I don't see the fact that the world is constantly processing the dimension of reality that's changing and you never know what tomorrow will be... Yes, of course, that's true, there's no guarantee of anything, but that doesn't mean and doesn't require political autarchy, political pasivism and lethargy. On the contrary, my point of view, the position of the SNS is that there are the best answers that are preventive, that we are not constantly coughing for circumstances, but to create our own circumstances. Therefore, one way to do this is at this time the existing support of Serbian citizens to continue Euro-integration. We don't know how this trip will end, as someone said. And that's true. How will it end, of course, that we can't predict until the end, but these fatalistic forecasts and anti-cipulations about some black script for me aren't fully established. The old political rule says best and worst scenarios never come true. Therefore, what is a secure scenario for Serbia is that, if we are persistent and consistent in applying all those European common achievements that have become part of the collective value dimension of Europe, which is sometimes a little declarative, sometimes not always applicable, but also what it means to build a stable society, Serbia will not belong to either failed or unfinished states, nor will it belong to weak countries. I guess it's an interest that runs us all together. In that sense, I also see the need to adopt and formulate a resolution that, as someone has well noticed, and I personally insisted that it be a resolution rather than a declaration, it seems to me that this fellow Florist has made an excellent observation, and I really think that this is exactly the main role and function of this resolution. I especially think about that timing that I think is great. I don't know how much the product of some planning or simply the result of the dynamics that the working group itself has been working on, but I think it's great to make clear messages before the Council of Ministers decide on the date of the negotiations. I think that's good because we show desire and ability, after all, to define, the role of all competent institutions and to show that we are institutionally thinking. That's why I think it's also a good time for this resolution to be adopted and I'm sorry we couldn't achieve that eternal dream of consensus. Of course pluralism is always welcome, but this consensus on important issues is really important. But, well, that's really legitimate, and we need to discuss it, as one of our fellow MPs mentioned. As far as the title of the resolution is concerned, I would now just briefly mention some things that I don't think are so irrelevant. A motion for a resolution on parliament's role and principles in Serbia's EU accession negotiations. On the one hand, we have given that main tone to the role of the National Assembly and it is in focus and I have already said something about it, not to repeat myself. But on the other hand, we all forget the principles that are within the title of Resolution itself. This is actually generated by this highest level of representative, legislative and control roles of the National Assembly, and we have tried to make sure that in the preamble itself, but also in the content of all members of the Resolution, we show that we are guided primarily by certain principles that are binding, both for us MPs and for the government itself. Principles aren't something that isn't optional. We adopt the principles as a way and a need to define how all actors in this process run this important business. We have indeed raised the level of control function and consultative functions of the National Assembly in the previous period in many dimensions. I think one of the logical consequences of this process was one fairly good and constructive work within the task force, where we have shown that we are all ready to strengthen our own role. It's not some protocol thing, it's a thing that carries a lot of work and a lot of responsibility. And in the future, the Committee on European Integration will have much more work to do, and it has had so far, but now, indeed, much more and much more responsibility. Of course, all other resolution committees that will be consulted will be involved in the work of how any negotiating chapters will be opened. As far as the mechanisms themselves are concerned for which, as I speak, it sounds nice, but I need to find a basis in the text itself, and it seems to me that it is best to look at eight members, from 16 to 23, who, since the resolutions are usually of the general type, I think in a very precise way to define the procedures and mechanisms that provide the true participation of the National Assembly in this whole process. Someone mentioned quite well in article 14, which shows a strong terminology, where we talk about the National Assembly being bound by the Government, and I really believe that this termology, which we've largely all agreed on, shows the real ability of this National Assembly to demonstrate that we're not all just voting machines of our own parties. I would especially mention the role of ruling parties and SNS, where we have indeed shown, and this will be witnessed to you by all opposition colleagues, full readiness or full readiness not only to be voting machines but to really create serious control mechanisms, both for this calling and for all future Parliament's callings, even though this process continues. That is why I think that this resolution has more significant sides, that it has shown and introduced a new quality that shows the seriousness of not only this ruling coalition, to be honest with all MPs, or the majority, if it is not already pleonasm, in this conference, and therefore I expect that we will support this motion for a resolution and start a serious job that is ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30589	Thank you. We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word has a folk MP, Diana Vukomanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30590	There's always something left, and it'll only be in the coming years to say it. In this discussion, which is not strictly adhered to by the wording of the Resolution, I would like to point to the fact that there is a space of opportunity, and counterpart Jadranka Joksimovic has already pointed out that it is a fortunate circumstance that this week, when this key long-awaited decision is made, i.e. when negotiations with the EU start, when the Council of Ministers makes that decision, I would like to point out how difficult it has been for the previous countries to meet all the criteria, which is certainly encouraging for us to enter Croatia. I would mention concrete figures that symbolically reflect this area of opportunity, political and manoeuvre, for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to succeed in this final launch of negotiations. So in 2004, when 10 countries of former post-communist Europe, Central Eastern Europe joined the EU, this was an increase of 19% for the EU, in particular, in the number of inhabitants. In 2007, when Romania and Bulgaria joined, the increase was already less, 6%, of the population's inflow. After Croatia joined in 2013, it was 1% increase in population. So I stress this graduation - 19%, then 6%, then 1%. I would like to say how difficult it is now to join the EU and how difficult it is for this government to insist on the criteria established in Copenhagen and Madrid, as early as 1993 and 1995, and not to place for Serbia in the membership process some new ramps and some new scales to be skipped and criteria to be respected. So I've already pointed out that there is this British-German paper. The happy environment is also political, international political, which is precisely the country that is still actively favouring open-door policy, means, for the enlargement process. The citizens of Germany are much more skeptical, but just as there have been new political circumstances when the great "grand" coalition between the Democrats and the Social Democratic Party was established. At least I, as a representative of the SPS, can testify that their MPs are more flexible than the criteria set for Serbia. What I'm saying is that it's extremely important that this political moment is in order, so to speak, that we adopt this resolution on the role of the National Assembly. It will indeed be historically interesting to see our role as far as we have succeeded as MPs to predict and show willingness and to respect the capacities of both the institutional and administrative National Assembly in the accession process. counterpart Comic mentioned and insisted on dialogue. The assembly is a detiberative body that it discusses. I said that it is a positive democracy that has the same space for pro-European dialogue and also for opposing this membership process. So it's all legitimate to say but it still needs to be politically realistic and politically responsible and to know that we are responsible for the long-term fate of our citizens because this is a third chance. If we didn't succeed when the SPS led the government in the 1990s because of the extremely difficult circumstances of international isolation and sanctions. If the former midwives failed now and now in that third decade from 2013 until 2020. We have a clear maneuvering area. So one big task is to succeed in what we're not in the past two decades. As counterpart Joksimovic pointed out, these were very precise, and she quoted concrete members of the resolution as saying, the role of the National Assembly of Visas of the Government has been very precise, especially this team is in charge of the negotiations. In addition to giving an opinion, the National Assembly has the opportunity to make recommendations. We're in constant communication and coordination. As I have pointed out before, both the government and the head of the negotiating team, i.e. the minister in charge of European integration, have an obligation to submit three months, or six months of reports in line with the dynamics. The process will include, in addition to the Committee on European Integration and Respect for the same place and the role of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association, which will not play such a dominant role, because we are now taking a step forward and professional services of the Assembly that have been very valuable and have been monitoring these processes for many years and are preparing materials in time. So it's a big set of people, and I'm also saying it's also a set of politically experienced, politically responsible people, politically educated people, not only politically, but also professionally. At the same time, we offer our hand to partnerships and civil society organisations, so to NGOs, I will mention the European Movement in Serbia, which, I say, was a pioneer and stories about European integration, and many other NGOs that cover different aspects that will be covered again with these 35 chapters, as well as the professional public and individuals. So what needs to be insisted on in the next period is information and education, the expansion of these pro-European values, pro-democracy, pro-market, when it comes to economies. Insist on strengthening various actors who can contribute to the process. So, this resolution, although focused on the role of the National Assembly, also provides an open window of opportunity for other people and other actors to be involved in public debates or in some debates, or informing the public, to really promote these European values that are traditional and Serbian at the same time. So, once again, I stress the fact that the SPS MPs will vote for this resolution, and I call on other colleagues who have also expressed good will to do so during the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30591	The People's Messenger Sinisha Kovacevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30592	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, my generation truly loved Europe. As soon as we took off our pioneer wipes, we turned on the Luxembourg radio, went to Trieste near Mešinović to pick up "Levis" jeans and to Vienna for the Rollingstones concert. We loved her and because Churchill and De Gaulle lived there, there were Lennon and Jaeger, there were lights, nylon socks, record, there lived De Sik, Shabrol, Felini, Sid, Visiz, Cami and Sartre. We grew up with American and European films, English music, Russian literature and our poets. Only a decade older than us, read by Miljkovic, Popu, Bran Petrovic knew by heart, "Bloody that you are a street" from Riga of Fera, went to Bećkovic's literary evening. During that time, the second part of our generation was disgusted by all of it. They worshipped the bronze faust, called the "stafette", went to Asian events called "staflets", worshiped "the blue pet", sang to her, wrote anthological court poetry, rejoiced when Walter defended Sarajevo, banned books and poets, films and theatre performances. Dear friends, in order for a man to be happy, he needs to have several satisfying preconditions. It takes life or at least as long a lifetime as possible with the person she loves, doing the job she loves, being healthy and being free, and we weren't free. By the way, do you know what the attitude of bronze makers to Europe is today? No one loves her more than they do. We loved her, I mean Europe, because we studied great-grandfathers there, because from there with Davidovic came the press, with Schlezinger's music education, with Dosite and Steria of Education and Culture, with Jovan Djordjevic's theatre, from there came the railways, the post office, modern medicine, superior painting. A criticism of their own government could be heard on television, there newspapers revealed political affairs and replaced ministers, and he was happy not only to pass on congresses and water reports. We wanted to live in Europe amongst the courteous and smiling, we wanted to live as a normal world, as Europeans with their own name and last name, with their own identity as our own. Europe didn't want us like that. They wanted us to be torn apart, bombed, condescending, without pride and without Kosovo and there's mantra – Europe has no alternative. Dear friends, everything has an alternative or almost everything. The alternative to war is peace and vice versa, if it weren't for Termopil, Mojkovac, Gallipoli, Thessaloniki Front, Waterloo, Kosovo. The alternative to life is death, the alternative to death is resurrection. The alternative to pride is condescending and unification, only family, country and air have no alternative, only children and sky have no alternative. If someone had kept an insult log, it would have been an insult to thousands, several thousand pages, the title – Anthology of European insults and humiliations. Not a shred of empathy, of condolences, of the need to help the fallen state and nation, of the European Bank, of interest in the green, of the Kaishar. Europe's largest trade chains, as well as banks, are pumping money out of Serbia. Where's the profit from Mercator, Lapovo or Ljubljana? Everything that is being built in Serbia is being built by European firms employing Serbian builders, giving them African wages, as crows to a dying deer. The Democratic Party of Serbia does not want to go to such a Europe, it does not want to be among those who take away our territory, which for a reason you consider an altar of the state, it does not want to be in a sinking ship, it will not be like those who buy tickets to Titanic the moment the Titanic is largely inhabited by fish. There is no, dear friends, a multi-confessional and multinational empire that has not fallen apart in blood and ashes. From Babylon to the Soviet Union, we've been in such imperial models twice. What good have we as a people benefited from centuries of living in the Ottoman and Austro-Hungarian Empire? The Democratic Party of Serbia does not want among those who first raise planes, bomb sovereign countries, and then come up with more or less convincing reasons for defending human freedoms, does not want among those who are dead leaders of independent states, however they may be, exhibiting in the cooled windows of the province's self-services, not among those who urinate in the bodies of dead opponents. Finally, we will not be among those who suspend democracy, replace the legitimately elected prime ministers and declare new ones with committee superiority that no Italian or Greek has voted for. In irrevocable and mostly property, fish or beggar tear, supranational, mostly German companies, are given their own sky and land, water and farmland, selling so into depravity and their own sovereignty and identity. Never in its history, except in Hitler's time and Napoleon's expansionism, has Europe been in such a moral crisis and on such a moral and historical side. Europe, dear friends, is a tomb for small peoples, comfortable, marble, but still a tomb. Don't tell me that with equal decision-making rights, they decide and perform one Slovenia or Germany, Luxembourg or France, Malta or Great Britain. As it is in that grave ask the Greeks, ask the Italians, Hungarians, Spanishs, Bulgarians, Romanians. Ask the Icelandics why they cut off the negotiations and gave up their entry, why the UK scheduled a referendum on going out for 2017. When that happens, then what, dear friends, remains of Europe? Ladies and gentlemen, "the Fourth Reich"; all that marched on Stalingrad, Germany, Italy, Spain, Estonia, Austria, Lithuania, Finland, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia, but there is no Fon Paulus, because this quest to the east is realized by other means, so Brussels is actually a replacement for "Comintern", just not speaking Russian but German. Today, on language, thoughts, procedures, businesses, it's not Comrade Stalin who decides, it's Comrade Merkel. What CK Europe makes as a Brussels decision, the commissioners will implement without question or discussion. That's where economic decisions are made. That's where the carrot size is prescribed. The so-called Political correctness has hidden various types of thought, speech and political obstructions. From there, new speech is imported, rogobat language expressions such as dramatist or pedagogue, a new cultural and subcultural model. That's why this political freak, designed only to make Germany better, to collapse on its own, and everyone else before her. We'll have to endure new insults and new humiliations. All for our own good, to rejoice in the yoke, and the fact that we've been killed and bombed a little bit, that today we're dying of cancer and sterility is nothing compared to the size of the target we're aiming for. In that sense, Gavrilo Principe and be a murderer and a terrorist, as if he had killed a tyrant on the steps of the Imperial Palace in Vienna, not Vidovdan in Sarajevo, where 95% of the Germans and only 5% of the Serbs, Croats and Muslims live at that moment. We will suffer that "Young Bosnia" is a terrorist organisation, not something the southern Slovenes have at that time. We'll enjoy the history review. The capitalisation of Germany and its defeat in the Great War marked as a day of truce, and behold, on May 9, not as the Day of Victory over Fascism, but as the day of Europe. Dear friends, the DSS will continue to think that Europe Zole and Igoa, a Europe that should be pursued, is still considered to be European liquids, such as human and artistic freedoms, freedom of the press, minority rights, whether minorities are confessional, national, something that must be taken without a spare. It is necessary to take all European fluids when it comes to working and hygiene habits, protecting the most endangered social communities, our oldest and youngest citizens, relations with the disabled, towards the sanctity of property, but it will not vote for this resolution, because it does not want to be tied to the dead, it does not want to participate in a new large German project, it does not want to be part of a mega-state where the country will not be Serbian in the morning, before we open champagne and fire fireworks in the honor of entering Europe, or in order to be absolutely clear that we will speak in a language that we will all soon understand - its Danes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30593	The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Micunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30594	Dear President, fellow Members of Parliament, I must express the satisfaction of attending this session where, with the vast majority, we adopt one declaration, which testifies that with the other half a billion people we enter into a large human community. It is my pleasure that 25 years ago, when I set up the DS, I said that sentence – nothing is stronger than the idea when the time comes. We have recognised that the EU is the unification of European peoples, the creation of a huge economic community, the idea that will surely win. Today it is my great pleasure that those who doubted these ideas, at least the vast majority, accept it today as one fact. Of course, we can argue very much about what the EU is and why it is important to us. I can understand all those who feel the opposite, but let's start with an empirical view. The fact that almost all European countries are trying to get into that community, and that's not a small community, I said, that's half a billion people, is about there being something attractive and they're binding their future there. It may prove to be an illusion, but now they're tying that future to that group. Secondly, we can be angry with the EU, some countries, we can criticize them, describe them, but I think we made the biggest mistakes when we didn't look at ourselves. What was it that we were doing? What did we look like? What are those acts we've done? What is it, apart from our persistent reference to the glorious past that we forget every time we turn to the other side? So that's one question - what is Serbia today? A few years ago, I was in Russia, maybe 10 years ago. I found the Vedemosti newspaper in the hotel and read an authorial article by the current prime minister of Russia Medvedev. I was very impressed by a motto there, and it reads (the national MP speaks Russian). So it was an honest attitude that the problem of respecting the law was fundamental in a society. That's what the current prime minister of Russia said, and it's like a motto. It would be very good to understand that entering Europe has at least four motives, which are difficult to challenge. The first motive is, of course, political. There are one-party systems in which many of us have lived, for a very long time, and we know what it is. It always ends up in the dictatorship of one party, then one man. There's no opposition. There is only a party that dictates the names of MPs, ministers and all, if necessary to the conductors on its personnel commission. Clearly, it's a stoned, unpullastistic society that must rot. These were his great shortcomings, despite a very humanistic vision of the society of freedom, the equality of all people. It was therefore important to have the opposition, to introduce a multi-party system and divide the authorities. This is the key issue, which is most difficult to reform, in this congregation today, but also in all congregations since 1990, 1991. So the executive government, the government, through political influence, the party, one coalition or coalition, seeks to continue to be dominant at all points. The parliament has never been able to defend its full independence against the government, but let's not forget, the government is only proposing laws, and we are voting them. It is our responsibility to oblige people to abide by it, as a law binding, punishing, if they do not abide. Happiness may be a circumstance that very little adherence to these laws. It's enough to track the history of wild construction or tax pay, so we'll see that what Medvedev said, that we're a little uncomfortable living with the law. In Europe, which has a longer legal tradition, while we were unfortunately enslaved, sang beautiful songs along with the geese, until they built up the state and the legal order and the right as a huge sanctity. The fact that Emperor Dušan had a Law that said that the law would be above the emperor, etc., that is well said and that is on tradition, but unfortunately it has never been realized, nor has the Serbian state lived under that law for the next 500 years. Thus, in this lawlessness or insubordination of the law, no society could advance. One of the first things is to sort things out. When we entered the Council of Europe, it was my duty to give a speech in Strasbourg, I said the first sentence – I look forward to our obligations much more than the privileges that will come out of it. Our entry into the EU is much more looking forward to the commitments that will be imposed on us than the privileges that many hope for, which will not come from the sky from some financial or other incentive. So that's why I'm politically defining myself. The DS was also identified 25 years ago for the EU. The third reason is, of course, economic. The European Union has been created for economic reasons. It was before Thomas Payne's idea in the 18th century and many before him to create united European states like American states, but it was a mere idea, it was not necessary. Now in the era of expansion of the world market, because of the spread of communication and the progress of technology, which requires a huge series, only large markets can compete and survive on that market. This was understood by Europe, and it began modestly - steel, coal, further to these large industries, in order to eventually create a complete economic community. What does that mean to us? First of all, it means one competition, let's see how others work, that our product has to be high-quality and well packed to pass on that market, which is a market of half a million people or across Europe the world market. There is no greater challenge today than going to the world market. In order to survive, Europe has created and is therefore expanding because the market is expanding. The bigger the market, the more China shows, the stronger and the more independent they are, in any case, the more independent they are. The third reason is valuable and that's what I said at first. Let us have courage, so without this great outpouring of feelings of love for our history or society, let us take a realistic look. What does our health care look like? I had reason to leave the other day. In the morning the Clinical Center looks like the biggest rally any political party would want. The whole of Serbia is moving because there is no more money for private hospitals, for private checks. People sick, old, powerless come and wait. That's hundreds and hundreds of people. They're scheduled for mid-year checks, for a year, etc. In order for the most banal operations as cataracts or I don't know, the replacement of some prosthetic should be carried out. It's a state that affects millions of these people. That's the situation. That's what health care looks like. Not to talk about other things, what it looks like with corruption and other obligations and responsibilities. What's school look like? What's going on at school? Today, only anyone who doesn't want to be a doctor of science can lose that title, and then in turn go to elementary school, where Mom comes in, they give an A's. So, you can't go on with these kind of frames. What's going on with the staff, what's going on with the talented students? They're leaving, 35,000 gone. If they are in Europe, in the European community, they are in a certain way at home. They're consistent, they can come, they can go, they have a place to go, like a lot of unemployed people, they'll have a place to go. What happens to more than half a million, to be modest in counting numbers, people who are completely desperate, with no hope of ever getting a job and how will they solve the question? It's no longer a working class that has the strength and power to counter general strikes, to put pressure on the government. No, it's one too many. These people are desperate, just waiting in one picture for someone to break the stone, fly into the store, and supply themselves with the most essential needs of life. It's the state we're in. They needed some data on asylum seekers to see how conscious the citizens are, to brag that we're the most human beings, and to drive someone out into the snow, it doesn't matter, the asylumist, he looks different. What about that xenophobia? Who raised these people like that? We didn't do our job right. That's our society's problem. The state can't organise that one group of people can't walk a quiet street with their special sexual orientations, but that's what one service, another consultation, etc. is about. And the police say, "We won't defend it." It's a country crash. Not to count the other things, as we look great, with over 40 murdered women, with beating each step of women, with safety, where children are stabbed with knives. It's all our reality. Whoever doesn't want to look, doesn't have to look at an icon and he's solved his problem. But this is a condition. Now, Europe is doing some standardisation, less today, and I think it's going to be bigger tomorrow. One part, no matter how regretted, sovereignty is passed on to Europe. Many dictators have worshipped a sentence – no one will interfere with our inner affairs, and then we will strangle whoever we want inside, make camps, arrest, forbid, for God's sake, no one interferes with us, that's our thing. So it will interfere because of the violation of any standard, and especially because of human rights violations, because of all gestures of inhumanity or violation of what the Charter guarantees. There's more reason. Some of them are technological or we call them civilizational, whatever you want. There's some modernity, because it's a huge community where many are technically, industrially or scientifically highly developed countries. All that becomes available. Many of our people go there, compete, watch, transmit, etc. Today being against it is only possible in the name of something much better. I'm much better at it, no matter how I look around the world, I don't see it. Not in America, not in Asia, not in Africa, but in Europe, and freedom is a sacred thing. It's like the air, when they have it, people don't feel it, and when they don't, it becomes more important to them sometimes than life. We need to stop convincing ourselves that we are much more significant than we are. We don't need to humiliate ourselves, we don't need to make unnecessary reverberations when no one's asking us to, but we need to figure out where we are, get to know ourselves and compare ourselves to others. It's no shame to look up to someone who's more developed. Serbia wasn't ashamed of it when it formed its own countries, that I was using history now, so it accepted from the West. The size of some Serbian intelligence and thought was that in the first half of the 19th century, it had taken over many ideas from Europe, many ideologies from Europe and liberalism and socialism, but also anarchism, whatever you want, everything that was European, was there, along the railways and roads, etc. How are we doing today with the infrastructure? How are our paths? What kind of railways are these, compare our roads and railways with roads and railways in Europe, or planes, whatever you want? I don't know if I can use it, because we have a dangerously good plane. The problem is whether we have the courage to say that by gaining many unfortunate circumstances and above all some of our own delusions have come into conflict with others and we cannot escape now in further glorification of ourselves and contempt and condemnation of the world. We're not gonna get that far, of course. It is necessary, first of all, to add ourselves up, to end non-civilization relations in our society that are seen through the press, through the polemics, through political struggles. We are not yet mature, simply, as a political people to accept all necessary reforms. That's what we have to work on. It's nobody's fault. It's our fault. Being human isn't your fault if you don't have the courage or the desire to be yourself. I don't want to make a big speech, especially to assure anyone, because I see that the vast majority really want it. If we have misunderstandings, it's very good to have a different opinion, but what's obviously not dominant right now. We try to retain all elements of pluralism, competition, controversy, everything that characterizes normal democratic life. That, after all, has been democracy since ancient times. They were citizens, they thought differently, they debated, but it was important to hear each other. That's what matters. We must not make concessions in this regard, so as to silence the earth so that nothing can be heard. Finally, this parliament should have a small lesson, that it is possible to agree and do something for the benefit of both society and citizens, as well as for themselves. We have seen here various insults by the executive authority to parliament in this sense to determine its time, place, time of conversation, conduct, etc. Please, if we want to go to Europe, we understand that hierarchy. The greatest piece of sovereignty and the greatest master is the people. The people chose us here. We're parliament. We choose the government. As we as parliament should not be angry or screaming or insulting the people, the government must also not work with MPs, whether they come from any party, ruling or opposition. It's something we have to defend ourselves. I would ask all MPs in this regard to express this solidarity, above all with the institution, and after that with the party. If we don't preserve parliament, we're hardly going to make much progress in these party disputes. Here, that's something I wanted to say about this moment that is very important and important, and that's one step that I think is very important in moving towards Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30595	Dear People’s MPs, in agreement with Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, given the need for the National Assembly to pass the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30596	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, you are today planning to adopt this resolution to strengthen Parliament's role in the European integration process. At least that's how it's explained. I agree that parliament should play a significant, particularly control role in this country's executive power, but not because of European integration, but because of all the processes that are happening in society and that have a direct impact on the lives of citizens. If we were a little or much more objective and were not so blinded by the stars on the EU flag today, we would have a completely different resolution on the agenda that, for example, could be "Resolution on the Defence of the Republic of Serbia from European integration" or on the agenda, we would have a debate on the responsibility of the government and ministers elected by this House and all their activities that threaten the constitutional order, national interests and economic survival of this country. I will try briefly to explain why no DSS MP has signed on this motion for a resolution, and we will not vote on such a resolution in the voting day. I'll start from the beginning, preamble and attitude 1. I'll just read the part. Serbia's strategic goal is to become a full member of the EU. We disagree with that and such a defined strategic goal. The 2nd Preamble says full membership contributes to the overall social progress of the Republic of Serbia and the improvement of its citizens, and we absolutely disagree. We believe that this strategic goal should have been completely rejected, this goal that Serbia should become an EU member, but in full 2008, when 22 EU member states have recognised the fake state of Kosovo and the EU today is working with all its strength to build and build a Shiptar state on our territory, taking property and taking resources from us. We believe that this strategic goal should be reviewed, one serious dialogue and possibly after that dialogue has been redefined in relations with the EU Member States, because for Serbia, this whole process of integration has turned into a series of conditions and blackmail, so when it comes to these future negotiations, which my colleagues are looking forward to, in fact, it is only one question in the head of every citizen, and that is what we will all be asked of us as we sit in the waiting room, because after all these concessions and sacrifices we have reached the waiting room and now we are waiting for this new list of EU wishes, and some wishes are dictated by Hashim Thaci. This government, led by Dacic, has worked very hard to meet all the requirements of the first list of blackmails, i.e. the Brussels Agreement, so this government implements all the unconstitutional regulations of the previous government that were said in the pre-election campaign to be rejected and re-examined, so this government is developing good neighbourly relations with its province. So, he's developing good neighbourly relations with himself, Serbia. This government abolishes institutions in its own province. At present, if we follow the press, it has become a bit of a tangle over the final suspension of the Cosmet courts, but that is why it comforts us from the government and says that they will eventually be cooperative, and what we see in the translation means that Serbia will give up its demands and accept what the negotiator Hashim Thaci is looking for. The other day you had that police officers, who have been workers of Serbia's MUP, have become part of the KPS and have been announced to go to training, i.e. training in Vucitrn and will be educated there, i.e. to study Kosovo's legislation, which, as KPS members, will have to defend. The border crossings were also built a few months ago, but customs duties began to be charged, so we have a minister from the government in the media telling us that it was actually good, because the money from picking up customs at those crossings will be used to fund municipalities in northern Kosovo. As the greatest evidence of love for the EU and implementation of the Brussels Agreement, the government has forced its own citizens in Kosovo and Metohija to participate in local elections issued by Atifete Jahjaga. I think it's a unique example in the world. About how these elections were made, what free will the voters were, I don't have time to talk about it now, but you all know what it looked like. So, the Serbian government believes it deserves the negotiating framework and the start of negotiations, i.e. start, or a new list of blackmails that will be put together in 35 separate chapters this time. There is a simple solution to saving this country and saving peoples and all citizens, which is political neutrality or knowledge that there is life beyond a political alliance called the EU and economics, and that in the world there are countries that are ready and want to co-operate with Serbia, as with a respected and equal partner, and that we should not really agree to have treatment as a colony. Also, it is necessary to organise a referendum and ask the citizens what they think, not about entering the EU, but before it is too late, what do they think about European integration in the first place, and should Serbia continue this way? When it comes to the declaration itself, I really don't see how much or does it even strengthen the role of these negotiations and the determination of negotiating positions? It's true that there's been a lot of definition of each other's communications and there's a lot of reporting. But let's say, at point 17, the government delivers a proposal for a negotiating position to the Committee on European Integration, that the negotiating position is being considered, that the Committee members can make their remarks and opinions. This is now being delivered to the Government, i.e. those meetings will be attended by representatives of the Government and the Government will consider the Committee's objections, but in the end it is the Government that adopts and informs of what a negotiating position looks like. So I don't see that there's a lot of big impact on the process itself of making those negotiating positions. Thank you. [[Jadranka Joksimovic, from the place: Can you replica?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30597	She didn't mention anyone or the party. (Jadranka Joksimović, from the place: We are recognized as someone who is the promoter. First, according to the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Zvonimir Stević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30598	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of Members 106 and 107. Mr. Chairman, you have violated your Rules of Procedure for not warning your colleague, because she has spoken a series of facts and lies that do not agree with the reality in the space of Kosovo and Metohija and related to this resolution. It's a little strange for me here today to say big words and big thoughts. The reality in the area of Kosovo and Metohija and the life of Serbs and the rest of the population is something different, so it is so contradictory that a colleague in the previous exhibition said – and it is called and found that it is a false state, that it is a Cypriot state, that after the government and this parliament and this leadership, it would have imputed that we had reportedly lost Kosovo, that the government had recognised Kosovo and Metohija and that literally...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30599	Mr. Stevic, I'm sorry, but it's already crossed the line. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30600	Please, it's not. When it comes to injury, it is a false fact that the government of the Republic of Serbia and this parliament are abolishing institutions in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. I want to tell you, we've all done a little bit of this here in this composition in resolving the Kosovo and Metohija issues other than the LDP representatives. And what is very important is that we are in the space of Kosovo and Metohija aware of the state and the fact in which we are as a people and as a state and far from good and perfect and far away are all the agreements of the declarations and resolutions that have been made in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30601	Thank you. Just to point out, I don't think there was any breach of the Rules of Procedure. As chairman, first of all, I can't and I don't want to go in if anyone's telling the truth or not? It's logical that the DSS disagrees, she makes it public, so it's their right, I can't argue with them. The fact that he disagrees with your opinion is another matter now. It's logical if we got along then we'd be in the same game. So I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure. (Zvonimir Stevic, from the post: I ask that in the day of voting the Assembly be declared. All right. In the voting day, the Assembly will declare a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word first has Natasa Vučković, as a proposer, i.e. authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30602	Mr. Chairman, while respecting, of course, the definition of those who have pointed out that they do not want to vote for this resolution, respecting the reasons that they have set here, I must point out on behalf of the promoter that this resolution has not been correctly interpreted in terms of whether or not it is the role of the National Assembly in the process of monitoring the negotiations. Therefore, the Assembly itself cannot play a role in creating negotiating positions. That is, by definition, the task of the negotiating team and the negotiating groups. As for the very procedure that would be applied in the Assembly in the letter of this resolution, the Committee on European Integration will not be the only working body of the Assembly to deal with this work. On the contrary, the resolution rightly insists that all committees responsible for issues from the domains of individual negotiating chapters should be involved in the debate and consider negotiating positions. This is a great deal of insistence, and this is what needs to contribute to an increase in the institutional capacity of the National Assembly. In this regard, we believe that by including a large number of MPs, through other committees, this very role of the Assembly will be much greater. The Committee on European Integration, according to the draft working group and the text of the resolution, would be tasked with collecting those opinions and views adopted on committees in charge of issues in particular. These opinions and those recommendations will be delivered to the government. Of course, the Assembly does not have a binding fact of what the final negotiating positions will look like, but, on the other hand, the Government has an obligation to take the opinion and recommendations of the Committee on European Integration, which was drawn up on the basis of the contribution of all relevant committees, into consideration when it makes a final decision on the negotiating position. It's important to emphasize. In that, we went beyond what the government had predicted, and that decision was put in place somewhere in our institutional capacities at the moment. Whether we're going to change something in the period ahead of us, that's the thing we're going to consider during the process itself, but at this point it was an optimal and best solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30603	The word has a folk MP, Jadranka Joksimovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30604	The different attitudes we discussed are not a matter of someone's patience to hear ideas that you don't like or disagree with, but is also a right and obligation to respond also in the way you think you should. The exclusion of criticism only because you are an opposition or are in one question the only opposition does not exist. So there is no exclusivity. It is everyone's right to respond in the way he thinks it should, and being an opposition about something isn't worth it by itself, not by itself, but by the arguments behind it. If I have heard one of the points of criticism about this resolution, or we have heard, that relations with EU Member States should be redefine, I would just like a little clarification that I know, I'm a politician in education, so I guess redefining relationships means either some kind of redefining and diplomatic relations and economic relations and every other relationship, I'd like to know what we're actually talking about and to make that clear. On the other hand, the argument that it's in the head of every citizen, it's usually an ad-poly in a theory that usually calls for everyone to think just like that, every normal thinks so, etc. I don't know what's in every Serbian citizen's head, but I know they showed over 50% support yesterday for what SNS and this government policy is. So anyway... Well, that MPs are pleased, applaud but, therefore, we are talking about different levels, therefore, criticism. If you also said that the government is jeopardizing the constitutional order and national interests of the state, I ask you not to do anything where the SNS is, since the government's headquarters is not participating. (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... neither in the city nor in the Republic. Be all the way principled. Since I really don't see how you can almost charge the government with high treason. If so, then take legal steps with a serious argument behind it. (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... Only one sentence - in 2004 was the government of Vojislav Kostunica when the first resolution is said to be seeking EU entry as the highest and undeniable political priority and meeting all political conditions for the EU. (President: Thank you. )......................................................................................................... We didn't use this rhetoric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30605	Replica, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30606	I think you should give me a little more time. I don't know where to start. There were three discussions. When I said and the DSS is talking about the need to redefine relations, it means that it needs to be reconsidered whether Serbia really needs to continue on the path of European integration. It is a political decision, and economic relations, as with all other countries in the world, there is something called bilateral agreements and two or more states cooperate because of their economic interests. No political resolutions and miracles will help unless there's really real interest. As for the 2004 resolution, I think I talked about it on the Committee, it's known that much has changed in 2004. That's what I was saying, in 2008, the EU in which we want to be a full-fledged member has chosen to recognise Kosovo and Eulex is currently working to build a state on our territory. As for colleague Vukkovic, who is doing a very good job of the president of the Committee on European Integration, it is my impression that this resolution does not particularly strengthen the role. It speaks of including more about reporting and some continuing conversation, but the very fact that the government said that it could not be in some negotiating teams or teams that would work on negotiating positions to be also an MP, we have such an amendment, it would not be unusual and this would show, on the other hand, that the government is seriously counting on parliament, on some body to report. As for the first colleague who found me replicating, the DSS has not only an impression but only when you sort out all the facts and everything the RS government does is really part by part of the government disowning its province. I had no intention of insulting you. I hope not.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30607	The word is Natasa Vučković.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30608	One more guess. This isn't about what the government wants or doesn't want. This is about what role parliament has seen for itself and defined this resolution. If parliament wants to have a representative in the Council of the Co-ordination Body, it can confirm this today if it votes for the amendment of the MPs. So, the government may want something or not, but the Assembly has the power to decide. As I have already said, on the working group and by the committee's decision, we have confirmed the motion for this resolution, we have taken a significant step forward in defining the role of the Assembly to a much greater extent than was the initial idea of the Government. I think it's a good thing we've confirmed a single self-awareness as an institution and as a representative of the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30609	The word is "Zonimir Stević". Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30610	First of all, Mr. Chairman, I could have been looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You're really speaking in a strange way and treating me, which is not your right, and I'm advertising Article 27. I advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you were supposed to give me the right, and you're interrupting me. I don't know why. As for the replica, I've spoken before, and even now, when Cosmet is asking that it's neither easy nor simple and that it's a complex question. We have participated with you in an indirect manner, but that the institutions are really shutting down is not true. The KiM education process where there are over 46,000 students takes place under the Serbian state education system. The health process is taking place, etc. It's far from good, it's far from ideal, but it's necessary and you have to admit that after 13 years, this government has come to some agreement that is necessary. Through this we necessarily need to strategize the path for future generations in KIM space, and we can do it together through these resolutions, and as colleagues have spoken, through negotiations and dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30611	I owe you one, Mr. Stevic, to answer you. When it comes to hurting the Rules of Procedure, I have one unique principle, and that's the principle I have for everyone, no matter what our coalition partners and friends are. I can't favor anyone here. So, when it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's supposed to be a violation of the Rules of Procedure, not a replica, and that's why I tried to point you at a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Don't consider it personal. Check it out. It's not trendy, and I know you guys aren't too trendy. I want to make it clear. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30612	Let's look at the stenogram of what you said in the previous statement, that I respected the DSS that it had no right to think differently, which is absolutely false and incorrect and I fully understand their right and that's their right to commit and take views when it comes to KIM. It's been 13 years. I repeat, when it comes to the election of the people in KIM has been defined and has given support to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and to this leadership and let us help this people. If you went back, let me ask you – who shut down the District Executive? When he ordered... (Chairman: Mr. Stevic, please. )......................................................................................................... who invited Serbs to the election in 2000? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30613	Don't put what I didn't say in my mouth. Take a good look at the Rules of Procedure. I didn't say that you respected anyone, but I said that everyone has the right to speak and I don't want to go into the data at all. That's what I said, and I have no intention of defending anyone or challenging them. So, please, let's take care of this. You have the right, as far as the breach of the Rules of Procedure is concerned, to plead again on Voting Day. (The People's Messenger Plasimir Stevic, from the place: Yes, I do. On the day of the vote, we will declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Dragan Shormas.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30614	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the chairman, today is our resolution. This has nothing to do with the government of the Republic of Serbia, but we are already proposing the working body we have decided. I think it deserves the National Assembly to, at least in the way that we started this debate, to bring it in the same way that we don't get into situations like we just got into, which, of course, those who are opponents of European integration want, because they don't want to see the image of the single Parliament as it is. I will not agree with one of the previous speakers who said that two-thirds of parliament supports European integration. When we vote on the Brussels Agreement and here when we vote on this, it's not two-thirds, it's over 90%. It's supposed to be that way because it is. So it should be seen that more than 90% of parliament is more than 90% of the people for European integration, and that a small number is against those who have the right to think so. We must not allow it, so I appeal to those who are chairing and holding the session, so that it does not turn out to be seen from here that there are two Serbs. No, there is one Serbia that wants to go to the EU and there is a small part of the political spectrum in Serbia that is what it is, a small one, which is against and has the right to state its position, but it doesn't need to be created now that it's such a big issue that we need to discuss, I don't even know how long. I will vote for this resolution, as well as the SNS parliamentary group, which is supported by 50% of Serbia's citizens, with a growth trend, seen yesterday in local elections. If we who represent Serbia's citizens are our policy on this, I guess it's logical, when we're talking about whether it's measurable or not, that Serbian citizens are majority, so plus all the other parties who advocate it, are mostly for joining the EU. There was talk here about the state of consciousness, the mood, the research, the questions asked. Is that measurable, isn't it? We can agree to that, but they're completely measurable election results. They say -- those who are in favour of the EU get 90% of the votes in Serbia, those who do not favour the EU get a maximum of 10% of the votes in Serbia. Five, six, seven, eight, fifteen of these organizations get to 5% together and one that's parliamentary there's about 5%, where, yesterday, in two municipalities below, in one above. It's a situation in Serbia. She's who she is. It's measurable, if nothing else is measurable. Opponents of Serbia's entry into the EU, I say, are there when we list probably enough, but they are few in support, in Serbia they talk about how bad we are from joining the EU, never with any concrete arguments, but with some story. But they never say how much it would cost us, not to join the EU, but never to say how much it would cost Serbia if Serbia were not part of the EU in a recent period. My colleague Andric was reading some data a little while ago, and I'm going to do it on purpose to hear it. So, the current situation, and we know what kind of economic situation Serbia is in, and what it would be like to complete all the processes. I am one of those who advocates not rushing into the EU, but to do whatever is necessary in the standardisation of our society in all areas, in all spheres, so that one day when we join the EU, and it is possible in 2020, if we see how other countries have worked, Croatia, for example. A year and a half of screening, four and a half years of negotiations, that's 2020. So that's possible in a technical sense. If we're gonna make it, it's up to us again. It is up to us as MPs and this House to contribute to our work, more effectively, faster and without unnecessary and pointless sub-debates in parliament whether or not we should join the EU, when 90% of Serbia is to join the EU. We don't need to waste time on that, we need to get what our citizens want. So, if these figures say that 19 billion euros of foreign direct investment has been invested in Serbia since 2001, 60% of which are EU countries' investments, which confirms a high degree of economic integration between Serbia and the EU. In the last two years, almost 90% of total investment in Serbia has been from the EU. The benefit achieved by Serbian exporters is measured by over 2.5 billion euros by June 2013, and imported from the EU market is almost 866m euros. I am the head of the Friendship Group with the state of Finland who is a member of the EU and I am in favour of always saying that it is always possible to be in such a position, to be in the EU, to be a military neutral state and to have great relations with, say, Russia, like Finland. So it already exists in the EU and we would have nothing new to do with it. If we have this kind of economic relationship with EU Member States, and on the other hand we have, say, a completely different situation with Russia, because we can't export apples and peaches to cover how much we import gas and oil from Russia, we can go to the oil and gas market, we can look for the market on the other hand, but we have also been identified by the agreement, which is good, on the South Stream, and the South Stream is going to countries, or end-users are EU Member States. We're just a state through which the South Stream passes, and the North Stream is already finished. Let us now wonder when we are talking and how others are co-operating with the EU. Russia's most co-operated with the EU. Germany is most co-operated with Russia. The North Stream was made directly, while we were still talking about the South Stream of the North over there was running gas. It's something that no one can dispute. In addition, the total donation to Serbia makes up a total of 58.1% of all donations in Serbia, donations, aids that we have. When you look at it, it is an immeasurable contribution and the assistance we have received from the EU so far in relation to everything else. All the other things, when we talk about our history, about tradition, about economic relations, and that's what we're talking about here, Mr. Chikiriz was talking about, always through history, Serbia has been working with Europe. Serbia has co-operated with Vienna both economically and culturally with Germany, the Vatican, Greece. They are all EU members. When we were creating a country, we were most co-operated with countries that are now the EU. We have had the greatest help of them and they are all now in the EU. I don't see why. Serbia has always been an ally of these countries. She fought against some, among other things, and fought, but my God. The same is said here -- well, how many centuries have the Germans and the French, the French and the English, the English and the Germans fought among themselves, and now they are together in the EU, working together and working together. These stories about how someone will call a referendum on leaving the EU, we will see, but there will be no referendum. All the public in England know that. These are the internal affairs of England, above all their situations. They work perfectly normally in the European Commission and elsewhere, so I am convinced that this will certainly not happen. But I say again, what do we care, it's theirs. If there's a decision, it'll be their decision. Our internal decision and our internal agreement, which should be presented by this Parliament, is what we want and what the citizens of Serbia want, and that is to be part of the European family one day. The highest standards in the world, in any area, are standards in the EU Member States, those 28 – human, and social rights, economic situation, justice, etc. The European Union has the highest standards compared to the rest of our planet. These are the standards that Serbia needs, and we should live in such a country. In order for us to get there, we should be in the negotiation process, and I say that the wrong picture in our public negotiations is that we are negotiating there with some European Commission. No, we negotiate between ourselves first. First, we have a dialogue with ourselves, between us, about how one of these 35 areas should be arranged on the basis of what already operates between the EU and 28 Member States. When we agree and when we reach that level, we represent them. It is the term "negotiation", but we are essentially negotiating here, in our society, and with them we are just harmonising. We have nothing to negotiate with them. They have standards and know what they are – in health care, justice, defence, education, etc. And you know where we are on that level, whether we want to admit it or not. To achieve that, we must negotiate between us. We have to change us to be in the EU someday. Only then do we come to the role of Parliament. So parliament must be effective, quick to make those decisions, laws that are on the European agenda. If possible, and there were such parliaments, even without debate, I mean the plenum debate, if we do a good debate on committees, public debates, and everything else in this agreement, then one day we come to such a situation that we have such agreement in Parliament that we can also pass these laws. For example, our neighbours of the Croats did so, they agreed on one committee, and after that, they did not even argue, but they passed those laws. So we must quickly, in the interest of our citizens, adopt these laws so that we can complete this process as soon as possible. But, of course, not just adopt them, but apply them. It is then again the role of parliament to monitor whether or not these laws are applicable and where the changes need to be made. It's a process. It won't be easy to do. You know, the EU is changing its rules as we discuss how to reach certain standards, they're already changing some other rules, introducing which we need to get there again. And we must be very skilled in this process and very capable of escorting it. The administrative capacities of the Serbian state are indeed praised by all in the EU that it can endure and do so. We are now coming to the political will – as far as we are prepared to accept all these standards, quickly implement them and make the state of Serbia a more efficient state, a fairer and a state that makes citizens who are more satisfied, richer and more willing to work within our society, to make us all feel better. If we are not trying to make each individual citizen better, of course we will not be in a situation or be part of the EU. Because the EU makes it stable that citizens, the vast majority of citizens, 28 EU Member States, are satisfied with the life they have and therefore support the fact that they are part of a large family. You know, it's a market of 600 million people. Finally, it comes down to it – a huge market and a rich market. There is also a market of a billion people, for example in China, but it is known that the purchasing power of the market is of a billion people in China and the purchasing power of the market of 600 million people in the EU. It is far larger in the EU. And we are closer to our products and much better market. The Serbian Progressive Party will support this resolution in the day to vote and work in parliament in the coming period so that parliament is efficient, fast and contributes to Serbia's country becoming a part of the EU as soon as possible, at least from the SNS by 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30615	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30616	Mr. Chairman, colleague Vukkovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we today have heard from several colleagues in the discussion that this is a special debate. I can agree that this is indeed a unique and special debate, as only in Serbia is being discussed about the EU, watching all European parliaments in the EU right now. Nowhere like this, without criticism, without considering, a deep consideration of the relations of these individual countries with the EU, is being discussed as today in the Republika Srpska Assembly. In other European countries where dissatisfaction with the Brussels bureaucracy, the European Union, is growing and the problems of these European integrations are also feeling serious and harsh debates in parliaments. Such uniformity in support of something so far away, no longer exists in the EU itself. I want to say about a few of the problems that are waiting for us and that will certainly face Serbia in this process of European integration, at least when it comes to achieving its main national and economic interests. As I said, the specificity of this debate is that, in the absence of criticism, the EU is discussed, as well as the fact that Serbia will face several things in the process of European integration that can affect its security, its foreign policy and its economy. You know, when you listen to today's debate, you get the impression that yesterday the Berlin Wall is torn down and that the EU is being born which is powerful, united, economically strong, a single universal order is being created, NATO is an unsuspecting ruler of the world, as if at this moment we are not present with changes, serious changes that bring this whole order down, which require Serbia to lead one policy that would allow it to realise its economic interests on both sides. Serbia has good and developed relations with many countries, at this time on the other side of the world where it is developing and strengthening and where the dynamics of economic processes are at this point most important – in the area of the East. With a number of countries, there is a free trade agreement, with a number of countries having excellent friendly relations. The question arises whether the position that allows Serbia to realise its interests, primarily economically, will be compromised in the process of European integration? They will, because Serbia will be faced with full commitment and recognition of the EU's common foreign and security policy. Will Serbia behave in this process so that it can lead an even and balanced policy? I'm sure he won't. This tells me a statement by our foreign minister, who, in relation to the conclusion that this common policy is defined by High Representative Catherine Ashton, said: "We are almost always in agreement with the conclusions and we have automatically joined those conclusions many times." Therefore, Serbia will be forced, if it wants to lead that policy, to impose sanctions and to support sanctions, say Belarus, with which it has extraordinary economic relations, to support sanctions on Iran, which did not support Kosovo's independence, to join different unilateral views on the civil war in Syria, and to be quite certain to face largely those who supported it or supported it. On the other hand, Serbia will have to agree with the EU's common security policy, and believe that, it is not a small problem. Serbia will have to participate in different, from the point of view of its interests, completely pointless missions, such as, in this case, the "mission of Mali". What interest does Serbia have in participating in the EU mission in the country of Mali? We are now witnessing huge victims exposed to other missions, serious civil war, killing journalists, no one here has told us what kind of interest Serbia has for it. Serbia has been called on to participate as part of, having accepted and signed an agreement on a common security policy with the EU, to be part of a so-called "High Town Combat Group" in which individual EU countries are in place, to make part of their military forces available, say the EU, and participate in some missions that may be contrary to its interests, such as the "High Town Combat Group" has a description of the operation in Eastern Europe or the Caucasus area. Will Serbia take part tomorrow in the areas where it will clash with a country that is the only one who truly supports it in its political and economic sense, which is the Russian Federation? Therefore, Serbia's space to lead an independent policy, to protect its national interests, to co-operate with anyone with whom it can achieve its economic, state, national, political, any other interests, will be constrained, as it will have to support everything that comes, which is defined as EU foreign policy. Understanding with a common foreign and security policy means agreeing with all EU missions, which means agreeing with the EULEX mission in KIM, which supports breaking the Republic of Serbia in its southern province's space, whether we will agree to this acceptance of European integration, membership in the EU, will also accept that fact. Will we have the strength to say or choose where we will participate and where we will not? I'm afraid, compared to the way the state leadership behaves so far, when it comes to European integration, accepting everything that has come or been imposed by Brussels, we'll go wherever the finger holds. It seems to me like an absolutely real policy to be led by the Republic of Serbia, which means that we will be breaking many agreements, many friendships, agreeing with various sanctions that are in the interest of EU countries, or the United States, as their closest ally. Therefore, we advocate that Serbia leads an independent policy, that it takes care of its state interests, that it cooperates with everyone with whom it can achieve these interests, especially those who support its territorial integrity and that it cannot possibly stand, freedom expensively paid, expensively acquired, limited or destroyed in an alliance with the entry into an international state organisation that has repeatedly proved to be someone who is not her friend and who does not think well and who destroys its territorial integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30617	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30618	Thank you. In this part of the debate, I will begin with sentences that I have completed as an authorised representative of the DS parliamentary group, saying that it is always possible to change the perspective for Serbia as an independent state, but also for our entire region, to change the perspective of monologues in which each of us tells us what it is to whom it has done in the previous decades and what it has been and what it would be if it were, to a dialogue where we talk about how our children and our grandchildren will live. The reason I am starting this sentence is the fact that I have had the honour of talking to young people of the European Movement in Novi Sad about the EU about what it means for young people's lives. One of them asked me – what will happen to me if we continue and we are members of the EU? My answer was – your children will be born as EU citizens and this resolution is about to happen. This resolution speaks of our role in the negotiation process. It depends solely on us how strong our role will be, because the space that gives points of resolution from 13th to last gives the Assembly the possibility of really affecting the single negotiating position. I hope that within the DS Parliament Club, we will reach an agreement on my proposal to support the amendment of fellow Lassla Varga on the presence of someone from the Assembly and on the Council, or on the coordination body, because it is important for children who are not yet born, whose fathers and mothers will be today's twenty-year-olds, and that this is the generation that we deal with the negotiation business. What is a key feature of the negotiation process in which the Serbian Parliament will participate by controlling the government and by agreeing that Serbia's negotiating position be unique? The key feature is that we negotiate with 28 national parliaments. The European Union is coordinating the process, the European Council is now making decisions, but Serbia is negotiating with 28 members. Our negotiating positions, decisions on which negotiating chapters will be opened, which will be closed, pass through the national parliaments of 28 countries that are already members. It will be pronounced 70 times in 28 countries on behalf of Serbia. The content of these 70 times we here need to open a dialogue on the importance of how important it is to have the best possible assessment of the negotiating position tell us the experiences of others who only now after they joined in 2013 or 2007, or in 2004, say the famous sentence – eh, but we did not. From a sentence, if only we were, there is no benefit to anyone, as no one can benefit from—what would happen if there were a policy. What we benefit from is understanding that one of the key victories, conditionally saying, in these negotiations that we have with the national parliaments of the EU states, how much time we will provide ourselves for what we say - a break; to adapt when we close the chapter on how much air we will get in the most difficult chapters in which environmental protection and agriculture are at stake. How much time will we get to adapt and in chapters that we will first open most likely, chapters 23 and 24 concerning the rule of law, justice, the protection of human and minority rights, freedom of the media and the general respect for human rights in one society? What is it that we need to do, what mistakes we need to fix everything to know that in negotiations we can say that we will have a fully independent judiciary, a whole set of regulations complete and practice and apply verifiable, will it be 2021, 2023 or 2019? This is what negotiations are about, and if you can't provide yourself with a position in which you allow all of us to truly assess when possible, we'll all have a problem and we'll all regret why we're so easy to look down on and talk with cynicism about what the EU is and what is not the EU. These 35 chapters are chapters that define the everyday life of our lives, are chapters that will define the way children will live, which will only be born by children we have born. So, the generation that was born early and in the second half of the 20th century will have grandchildren who were born as EU citizens. It is not just a recipe or a way to talk routinely in a debate about a resolution that speaks of the role of the Assembly in the negotiations. What we decide today will produce consequences for children who have not yet been born and that is a very important thing, and that is serious consequences. Because these consequences are so serious, we feel that the role of the Assembly should be even more serious than we think right now, thinking that there is someone in the government who will take care of everything. Of course, there is, the head of the negotiating team leading the technical negotiations, the minister in charge of European integration leading political negotiations, all the presidents of the negotiating groups, the Office for European Affairs, the academic community, the NGO sector, a very large number of people will participate in the dialogue on what is the best negotiating position for Serbia. What is my request is for all of us to understand that it is real living conditions in Serbia 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022. Maybe six years is a long time. By the time you hit the palm of your hand and snap your fingers, it will pass and come in 2019, when elections for the European Parliament will be held again, held in May next year and after five years. My wish is for this parliament to be a gain of knowledge, for this parliament to be a place where the will for negotiating skills will be collected, for this parliament to be a place of dialogue in Serbia, in order for other countries to complete the negotiation process, from four to six years 2019, to participate in the elections for the European Parliament, because we will have a specific date of membership. It is such a great goal that it is worth every effort and that it is worth every effort of every one of us who wants to, together with those who are called pro-Europeans, along with Eurosceptics and together with EU opponents, but through dialogue, dreams together of a better life in Serbia, the rule of law, the rule of law, a well-organised economy and a better chance for all of us living in Serbia, because we are born here and because we want to change it for the better, because we want to be one of the best countries and societies in the region of Southeast Europe. In advance, I am grateful to all those who are grateful for this resolution, in advance, for everyone who will vote with me in favour of the amendment to Lasla Varge. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30619	The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30620	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, today we have one document resulting from the political agreement of all relevant political entities on Serbia's political scene. On the one hand, we have voices that we hear that there is no critical position at all on the issue of Serbia and EU accession, which, of course, shows that criticism does not always have to be malicious, but in this case we think it is a single position which has not been on this critical path since 2004, the accession of Serbia to the EU, has already been under a certain political parole -- it is feasible. In October 2004, when the political situation on the Serbian scene looked in co-habitation between the two DS and DSS political parties, the first resolution was reached. At that time, a study on the feasibility of EU accession was carried out against this document and, as one of the most important documents, the start of co-operation between Belgrade and Brussels. It is important to say that from then on, Serbia has come a thorny path to overcoming all the animosities that have appeared in society on this issue. Somehow, a solution has been reached, and indeed what should be commended is that the working group, formed within the Committee on European Integration, has shown a high level of awareness in the adoption of certain political documents. All the proposed solutions that existed within the working group by all political entities were adopted, and that is indeed commendable. Serbia has shown today that it really has awareness of how important the process of European integration is. After that trip, it should be said that the conclusion of the Council of Europe, to propose to the European Commission the start of negotiations on chapters from January 2014, is very important and the role of parliament should essentially have one major weight. What this Committee on European Integration has shown is that it was meant for Parliament itself, regardless of what composition parliament will be in 2014, 2015, 2016, but it is important to say that this role of Parliament is something we now give by voting this document. The goals led through this parliament are that all political parties are given a new approach to co-operation, i.e. the EU-Serbia relationship, to give practical improvements to relations within the institutions themselves, means a link between the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia, as an institution, not as individuals and personalities. That is what, in some ways, paves the way for Serbia's future accession to the EU. Why is the task force still to be commended? It is, in addition to all those topics that are in this resolution, which is a national issue, it is social justice, it is the regulation of institutions, it is the status of the Committee for European Integration itself, the information of the public, it has given a special emphasis on the economy. It is chapter five, where it cited all the standards that exist in the EU, which were adopted on the basis of consensus, the agreements of all EU members, and that is what the competitiveness we have heard from previous speakers about. This is what protects certain economic branches in our country itself, which is what structural reforms, which Serbia is practically currently in a position that must move forward with less and less financial resources, are capable of implementing. What it stands for is that it is organisationally capable, that there should be a consensus in that part, that all relevant entities, not only those related to the civil sector, but trade unions and other relevant entities, should actively participate and help all institutions to achieve such reforms, that everything we bring together as institutions is acceptable for all citizens of Serbia. That's the hardest part. When we talk about a critical attitude towards the EU, let's say, members themselves have that critical attitude. One Germany, for example, when surveying its citizens, only 20% of citizens are in favour of EU enlargement, i.e. they are not in favour of the EU to function in the way it works, because they believe that the citizens of Germany exclusively finance the EU budget, so they will never allow themselves to say – we will not be part of that European community. By contrast, they will remain to share the fate of all EU member states, all 27 and 28, respectively. Therefore, Serbia, which wants to become a full member of that community one day, needs to turn around and look at all its advantages, but also faults on the road to become a full member, in order to simply overcome all these economic obstacles and create a single market in which it will be able, with the help of all these mechanisms, to ensure economic growth, but primarily its economic growth, and then through co-operation with the region and economic growth of the region. What else does it matter to say? On this path, Serbia must approach one market development that will become an integral part with the promotion of the professional public, which is that it is not enough that with these high-school resources it cannot simply follow some economic trends that are being imposed on us due to the growing development of new technologies. Our engineers should become an integral part of the EU, they should participate in the most important infrastructure projects. It is good that Serbia is receiving large infrastructure projects, such as the South Stream, in which the EU will be very interested in participating, of course, with a certain kind of agreement. We are now aware that various kinds of seminars and meetings are being held in Brussels on energy, which is practically the part of the EU and the Russian Federation, on such projects, should be agreed on. Serbia is on its way and is in a position where it should be based on its geostrategic position to simply implement the European standards it advocates, or achieve everything it has adopted so far, especially with regard to legislation, but also to participate actively in the realisation of these projects. What is more important is to say that the negotiation process through the support of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia simply cannot run during the time you have the support of this institution, because it is not just a legislative body. She's also that control body of the government, and through this resolution, it's been shown. I think all the triggers have accepted it, because neither does the government as an authority that implements the legislation that the Assembly does not like to exercise power without control. As a result, the congregation is simply an organ that is in need of a wider view of all the processes that are taking place, especially in terms of different kinds of transformations of legal regulation from the economy. What my colleague referred to before me as one of the accentes, which is the opening of Chapter 27 and the opening of a chapter relating to agriculture, of course they are very important, because they take on over 40% of the EU's full regulatory and standards and I really think that as we have come to the resolution, that way this chapter also needs a political consensus to approach us. What is important is to say that the civil sector must also, in some ways, become increasingly involved in these negotiation processes. I think the National Assembly of Serbia recognized the importance of communication and civil sector dialogue and the general Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. She opened the door practically to all NGOs through committees, through public hearings, through various kinds of initiatives, and that's very good. One Montenegro boasts that 30% of the EU's total negotiations practically belong to the civil sector. If that went after Montenegro's hand, it'll probably work for us, too, that percentage can be that much. In the end, I would say that all SNS MPs would be happy to accept this resolution. We believe that it will benefit all citizens of Serbia, as well as all the institutions that will participate in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30621	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30622	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing a very important document that this Parliament will adopt. When we talk about this document, it should be for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to read Article 2. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says sovereignty comes from citizens who hold a referendum, a people's initiative and through their freely elected representatives. For the sake of the citizens and for the sake of the public, let me explain what we're doing today. We are today strengthening the control function of the National Assembly, because, as you know, the policy of European integration and negotiations with the EU will be led by the Government, but it is very good to have the National Assembly involved in this process and we MPs representing the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have elected us. It is very important and important today to remember that our European path does not begin in 2000 or 2004, that we, as the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, had the offer to become part of the EU immediately before the bloody collapse of our common state, which is no longer there. I am not here to cry over missed opportunities, but I would ask fellow MPs and the ruling majority and all those who are for the European idea and those who oppose this idea, to show that this National Assembly is not the arena in which we will use arguments and rhetoric that has been overcome on this issue. I, as an intellectual, as a member of the DS, as a free-thinking man, will always advocate and represent that all those who are against the idea of the EU have the right to state their position both in the public and in parliament and that no one should bear the seal of shame over it. I'll never become an easy man, so call on history and tradition. Today we are like messengers in that Bible vineyard, where the right to pay is also the one who came in the first hour and the one who arrived at the eleventh hour and the wages as in the Bible story should be the same for all. No one today will call upon the history of our footsteps, our slips, our falls, our strangers, our hesitations. No one will quote today an insult log from the road to the EU, because it will not lead us anywhere as a society. We need a consensus on important issues, but again I call on you as intellectuals, as MPs, as representatives of citizens, to listen to the critical opinion and those political parties that make arguments against, because the EU cherishes freedom of thought. The European Union cultivates some universal human values. She rests on those values. The European Union and the EU issue are not a matter of one-mindedness in Serbian society. Oneness has not brought us much good, when it comes to the development of personality, about freedoms, about rights, about democratic fluids that we have very fragile. On the other hand, when we talk about the universal system of values that represents the EU and which we seek and pursue, the EU is not a set of stars in our twilight sky, which will solve all our problems. The European Union has been a system of values that has been built patiently for decades, the legislation for which the National Assembly is being prepared, which it accepts. I will call upon all MPs to plead for this resolution, for it strengthens and the capacities of the National Assembly, and those who are in favour and those who are against it. The National Assembly should have a control function and a control role. They're citizens who will give the last word. They're the ones who'll plead at the referendum. But we have a very difficult and responsible job. Blessings or consequences, depending on the work that we do, will be felt by all citizens, will reflect on citizens' lives every decision in the National Assembly regarding the EU. I'll finish with this. On this day of 1996, during the great protests, I walked the streets of Belgrade behind Zoran Djindjic, who, along with Professor Micunovic and several other enthusiasts, turned on the European lighthouse. We had an EU flag ahead of us. I do not want to remind you of the vocabulary, because it is not a topic today, what this walk behind the EU flag looked like and which epithets we are all all honored with, but it is important that today, in all people, the awareness that it was a good move and that this EU flag has its place and that Serbia has its place under that EU flag. I reiterate my gratitude to all the people today's resolution, unfortunately, who have not been welcomed today, but also to those who have welcomed. It was worth it on that road. It was worth turning on the European lighthouse. It was worth setting European guidelines, no matter how many victims require at certain times, and it was worth the time for this mood to be majority. But again, I underline the end, in one of the last speeches Zoran Djindjic said – we will see each other up in the stars. It is up to us now to look at which way we will walk towards these stars, whether through full thorns, whether by the way the petals and not by the song Đura Jaksic, that the irons are our feet and we choose a thorny path, because that thorny path will first of all feel the citizens. There's no easy way and there's no easy way. There is no easy way to reach consensus in our society on very important topics but, I underline, European values mean that we do not go to Europe with some of our egocentrism, that we are the best and the smartest, that we know everything and that apriors brand those people who are not for that idea. No, it is up to us to strengthen dialogue in our society, that this dialogue is not a monologue, that it does not take place through party megaphones, that it takes place with all the important segments of our society, political parties, NGOs and institutions, and that everyone has the right to present his judgment without condemnation, but to bear in mind that the greatest responsibility on us in Parliament is what kind of climate we will create in our society. Today, unfortunately, it doesn't make me any happy, very ugly finger-pointing. There's no need for this topic. I say, we live in a society that we created to be so that everyone without fear can bring a critical judgment. Being an intellectual means being a free-thinking man, means being a man who's willing to hear a different opinion, but not satanicizing one who thinks differently, but maybe showing him what the path is and what the system of values we stand for. At the same time, being right doesn't mean being proud of someone being right, even if they were right until the 11th hour. Being right doesn't mean expecting laurels because someone's right. It is not the time at all for laurels, nor for the European idea to be interpreted by the ratings of political parties or by the influence of the electoral body. The European idea, first of all, means a dialogue that is necessary for the Serbian society at the moment, and unfortunately, the dialogue's negotiators often want to hear only themselves and not those who participate in the dialogue. These are not European values. European values are what this Europe has stood for from its moment on and from its beginning, and they include certain differences, but European values, above all, mean that this dialogue is in a spirit of tolerance, in a spirit of peaceable tones and in a spirit of understanding. If we do not understand each other in Serbia when this topic is on the agenda, how will Europe understand us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30623	The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30624	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the motion for a resolution is a good and acceptable document that pragmatically regulates the relations between the Assembly and the working bodies of the Assembly with the Government and all other relevant state bodies and representatives in a very important process of European integration, especially in the forthcoming phase of negotiations on EU accession. I must also note that it is important that today's atmosphere in the Assembly is far more peaceful than the atmosphere that ruled five years ago when the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was discussed. However, I will notice that still, in far smaller doses, there is a logic of political calculation and manipulation with this body. There is still a logic that the speed of the preparatory pre-accession process depends more on the skills in negotiations with the EU than on the fact that it will really be done and seems to strengthen the capacity of the country in the direction of bringing domestic legislation into line with the rules governing the EU or adapting to the principles of free trade and, more importantly, in implementing the practice of new legal norms, and new legislation, i.e. the practical adoption of European values in our everyday practice. We have adopted a series of good laws in the Assembly so far, but greater difficulties arise in implementing new laws. It is particularly problematic to achieve legal standards that regulate individual and collective rights of national minorities. In this plan, unfortunately, there are still major problems in achieving the rights of Albanians in Serbia, especially in municipalities where they make up the majority. I'm going to mention a very good National Minority Council Act. At the same time, we have also adopted the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, but in practice we still have, after three, four years, great difficulties in providing legal standards, which should be provided to national school management competences, not in practice. Even in this, there are major problems from the cost of parts of the Ministry of Education that obstruct the implementation of these legal norms. Or, take the Law on official use of language. The right to use the language is guaranteed, not only to use the language and the letter, but to guarantee the right to conduct procedures in the language of the minority. What's our practice? Take an example of what practice is in courts? In the Vranj basic court, there is almost no process conducted in Albanian. For what? First, out of 57-58 judges are only three Albanian judges, and in the judicial area, Albanians account for 25% of the population. If there are only three judges, how can they, in practice, exercise this constitutional and legal right? There are a number of other laws in this plan that have well regulated the matter that is being taken over from the European conventions, but when it is to be implemented, there are serious problems in practice. After all, take the basic right that all people are equal in employment. They have the right to all work, but how much of this right is achieved in Presevo and Bujanovac, where is the unemployment rate of over 70%? The Albanians have only symbolically in state bodies and structures, and there are absolutely none in the second-degree bodies in Vranj. Then what? This is a fundamental problem that we must address in the coming period – how do we implement the laws that we are adopting here in the Assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30625	Thank you. People's MP Carol Chizik isn't here. The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30626	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of my fellow Members, we are about to end this debate. I thought someone was gonna mention what I wanted to talk about right now, so I don't want to talk about it. Risky, I was the only one who didn't listen today in today's entire discussion of two or three colleagues and colleagues, it's possible that they said something in such a way that I apologize if I repeat something. So we are before the start of negotiations with Europe. We are entering a negotiating process that does not only mean verbal bargaining, but certainly is a multi-year process, with which it must parallelly go into greater or smaller reforms of this society in Serbia. In such a complex process, it is very important that there are rules, so to speak, of course, and I think that in this sense this document that we are talking about today is a crucial matter for this long-standing, very complex and extremely significant process and period for this country. The process involves multi-layer involvement in government, overall in the country and in all its organs, and more than that. That is why it is important that all these things be settled and I think that this document has largely addressed the most important issues in this regard. What I'd like to draw attention to today, noting that I haven't prepared the amendment to respond to some things, but I think it can be contributed to this and that it can be installed easily. It's about the next one. In this document in my opinion, all relations in all directions are regulated well. What is the essential thing that I draw attention to, are the relations of the Assembly body in the image of the Committee on European Integration. The relationship with this document is defined and regulated relations between the Committee-Government, and vice versa, but I do not think that the relations of the Committee-Community have been defined until the end. The Committee is the working body of the Assembly, but it seems to me to be lacking in this document what is the notification of the Committee on European Integration, the communication of the Assembly by him on the current moments of important topics and delicate issues in the Committee's negotiation process itself towards the Assembly. Then, his reaction to the Assembly when it comes to things that are not agreed on by the Committee-Government and the Committee's proposals to the Assembly to discuss it, to take views, to determine on such issues. I will take it as an example in order to make it clearer, a member of the 19th in which it is said - that the proposal for positioning in the negotiating process on certain topics is delivered to the Committee on European Integration. He delivers his opinion and suggestions to the government, and the government is obliged to consider and carry out the Committee on this. What if the government did not accept the suggestions of a committee that was just his untested in the congregation? Do we need to get into a situation where we weigh down who's more competent on a particular question, whether the Committee with its composition, or the Government with its composition? There's nowhere to stand about what the Committee's obligations are in the process. Should this situation be notified by the Committee of the Assembly that it is to be determined accordingly? This is how it stays, if it were to mean that the Committee is giving a final position, then I'm afraid we're going to be in the government's independence of foreign policy. I think that one more provision should define those obligations of the Committee to the Assembly in this sense, as I have spoken or when it is said here that the Government is reporting to the Assembly twice a year, and the Assembly is considering its report, but also the Government's representative in charge of the negotiations is reporting three months, and at the request of the Committee, the Committee may report more frequently. What if we have drastic things to consider, let's say, on a three-month report from a member of the government that comes between two six-month reports. Will the Committee be active towards the Assembly, will we leave it at will, or will we oblige it with this document to inform the Assembly in that case that the Assembly will be appointed according to both the Government and its positioning at the current time, or in the further negotiation process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30627	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30628	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues, the joint parliamentary club for Serbia will vote in favour of the resolution. I want to take this opportunity to say a few things that I hold very important, and we will meet them in the years to come, because I think it is a really irrevocable process and that the agreement that was put in place first in this Assembly in the past few months, the agreement on Kosovo policy that led us to have the opportunity as a state and the possibility to enter into negotiations with the EU, can no longer be broken down and that we are one, certainly in my opinion, the most important topic in our policy, in our public life, one decision that I dare say we were not able to make for more than two centuries, and that we are now not talking about procedures. So, a decision on where this country is going, what we as representatives of Serbian citizens actually have as our key decision. The road to the EU, I hope it will no longer be threatened by anything. To take advantage of all the benefits and decisions I think it's good to talk about a few important things. The EU's accession has its own life dimension, economical, of course, and refers to opportunities for a better life for each family in Serbia, which is to bring our public life into line and the rules under which we live with the rules that have been established and which apply in 28 EU member states. These two areas, these two things are inextricably interlinked. Nor is it possible to live well and have a good economy unless citizens are able to make their own political will and vote in free elections, not just for their representatives, but to make decisions on all important elements of public life. So without both of these elements, it is not possible to establish and achieve a life that allows us to find ourselves on the European continent and that we have the opportunity to enter this great community of peoples. This resolution was an opportunity and let's say what we actually have about politics to tell here today and I think it's a shame that this opportunity wasn't used. As I told the finance minister here a few days ago that he is not an accountant and that we can't only talk about numbers, but that we have to talk about politics, what is the essence of the economic policy that we should have next year, so I think it's a shame that we stopped at only these procedural and formal logical provisions about what parliament is going to do in the process that is ahead of us, and we didn't use it to announce that we get one huge majority for it – what do we really think is the way to a better life for Serbia's citizens? What are the odds of opening up to us? What we can actually expect if we're good, if we're able, if we're inventive, inventive, as citizens, as a nation disciplined, and we can live a lot better than we do today. We produce food worth ten and a half billion euros instead of using the potential and capacity of a fertile country. The fact that we have water, that we have two and a half million Serbian citizens dealing with agriculture, that we have a processing industry, is our range of 100 billion euros in food production. In this country, by 2020, mining could be invested four and a half billion euros. We can invest between three and a half and four billion euros in irrigation systems. We have an exceptional possibility that over the next five to seven years, more than three billion euros per year of biomass, will be used to produce electricity and hot water. We have an exceptional chance of turning one huge potential in the IT sector, above all I think of the extraordinary young people who are able to make computer technology programs, because we have a good Faculty of Electrical Engineering in Belgrade, a good college in Novi Sad, Nis, a good school in Kragujevac, to turn software production into an extraordinary export opportunity for Serbia. We have perfect performances to turn tourism into a branch of which hundreds of thousands of families in Serbia can live well. We have extraordinary doctors and good colleges and we can improve the health care of Serbian citizens, but providing health services becomes a major export resource for Serbia. Look at the prices for providing dental services, various surgical interventions and various other interventions in Serbia. The approximation of the EU opens up a space for all of this to become a real life. Education, instead of the great pain we all have, because there are no families in Serbia who have no one in primary, secondary school, in the process of higher education at college or higher schools, and we are all struggling together and we are looking at how to cope with a very serious disorder, we can not only turn our education system into a system capable of training children for life in 2012 and 2013, but it can become a remarkable export resource of Serbia, using excellent emotions that have remained in Asia, Africa, Latin America – Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, from some other times to some of our countries, can become extremely significant university centres where tens of thousands of students can achieve the best education. All of this opens wide to us if we make good use of the EU accession process. I'm sorry that at least the signs of all this aren't in this document. I don't think it's a good thing this parliament isn't using its core capacity. This is a political body. This is where essential political decisions are made. It doesn't matter what the government determines and implements politics under the Constitution. There is no policy in Serbia that can become life unless it gets verification in this parliament in one way or another. We need to talk politics. We should talk about opportunities because, it is my belief, from this assembly hall one great enthusiasm, one great good energy among the citizens of Serbia, should be initiated, that we all come together to know what a great opportunity lies ahead of us. European integration will also impose on us the necessity of reforming our political system. We'll have to change the Constitution. Why should we wait for any of the EU commissioners to tell us that or for an EU body to give us a warrant to do so? It would be amazing if we were doing something up front. It would be remarkable to see what awaits us and to leave this congregation each of these good processes. Serbia, unfortunately, is today and decades ago a country that has no institutional capacity to hear its citizens. Thank God, today we don't go to elections, if nothing else there people express their political will when they choose, but between elections, it's hard to find a Serbian citizen who thinks he has the opportunity to say what he thinks about how his children are being educated, about how his family is being treated, about what he thinks should change even in his closest environment. That is why we, the ZZ, think it is necessary to institutionally open the space that millions of citizens have the opportunity to say what is important in their lives, what they think should be different, that they have instruments and opportunities to declare to every public authority that is in their closer and further environment. It will also be part of European integration and it would be good if we had some indication of it in this document that we are voting on today. Written or not, it doesn't matter. It is essential that we have come to the crucial political will that this country wants to become part of Western European civilization, economically and valuable. The European Union is the largest trade force on the globe. It might surprise someone because there is America and there is China. The European Union is not the world's largest economy, but it is the world's largest trader. We are in an area that has brought us many accidents throughout all the centuries in which our people live here. Now we have one great chance of making this intersection of roads a source of good life. That's not gonna happen unless we do it ourselves. Neither Brussels nor Berlin nor Paris nor anyone, as neither Moscow nor Beijing will help us. This is a chance to do something good for ourselves. I hope that what unfortunately happened in the early 19th century through the entire unfortunate 20th century will not happen and that this beginning of the 21st century will be a moment when Serbia, the Serbian citizens, will grab their fate in their own hands and therefore we will vote with both hands for this resolution regardless of all its shortcomings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30629	The floor is represented by a representative of the promoter, National MP Natasa Vučković.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30630	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to thank all the MPs who participated in this debate on behalf of the Members of Parliament who tabled the motion for a resolution. In this debate, many of us have mentioned political dialogue and the need to develop political dialogue as something that is necessary that we need to apply in the discussion and in the debates on reforms and on the European integration process. A successful political dialogue requires political culture. She, let me say, has several levels. One of the first levels of political culture is that there is a different opinion organised through the opposition, but that it is constantly being attacked. Therefore, that is not taken into account in any way, that it is trying to adjudicate, etc. through misrepresentations. The second level is the suffering of different opinions and opposition. So it exists, but in no way do we allow it to affect our attitude. The third level of political culture, which I think we should advocate, is to cultivate the opposition and differing opinions. I think this is the method that will be needed in the process of European integration and something where as MPs, as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we must give our full interest. So we respect different opinions, we respect the argument of all those who do not want to vote for this resolution, who believe that the process of European integration is contrary to the interests of Serbia, we understand their political right to have a different opinion, but we are surprised that from such a position they do not want the National Assembly to have an impact on this process and that it is in this negotiation process itself, or the monitoring of negotiations that can affect. I believe that they too would be in the interest of the National Assembly having a greater influence in this process. In my first address, I did not talk about our strategic goal of making the Republic of Serbia a member of the EU as soon as possible, which several MPs spoke of. In fact, I felt that this goal had already been established and that this motion for a resolution only confirms it, as it says in the text. We thought we had agreed on this a long time ago, but some tones in the debate have shown that it may be necessary to stress it again. You know, it's not good that once we go as a nation, as a society, as a country one way, we stop at any moment and question whether we're on the right track. EU accession is one major national project of historical importance. Serbia will change much in the process. I think it is important that we show both commitment and continuity in this process and survive in that process even when there are some obstacles and some difficulties on that path. Today integration is a necessity, not just some modern trend, but a necessity, for many reasons my colleagues here today talked about. After all, we live in an environment that, apart from several countries of the immediate environment, is European in general. The MPs spoke about the extent to which our economic exchange depends exactly on how we regulate our relations with Europe. Everyone's integrated today. It integrates Russia as well. Finally, by joining the World Trade Organisation, Russia will therefore have to liberalise its market to a much greater extent, and the question is how will all those free trade agreements that exist today survive, precisely from the need to integrate into one such world organisation. The isolation didn't do us any good. I think she's brought us nothing but poverty, disorientation to the modern world and modern flows and a certain primitiveism that, we all agree, in these years, dominates some of our processes. About value. I don't think anyone is forcing Serbia to accept some post-modern values today, or to sacrifice some of its traditional values. What it is is one of our identities, it is something that we need to protect and that is ultimately not being negotiated with the EU. But when we say that post-modern values or modern values are contrary to our traditional values, that means that we don't want to go anywhere, but that we want to bury ourselves at one point, in one situation, and we recognize ourselves that the world is going at an unfathomable rate forward. In the 1990s, which characterized a very rapid development, social and economic, through the information revolution, etc., we were skating backwards instead of developing somewhere along with that world. I think we had to learn a lot from that. It is certain that the EU will change in years ahead of us, but I hope that this accession process will allow us to change together, changing from within, with this European environment. That's why I don't think we're falling into the EU, but I think we've really well assessed our capacities, our priorities and our interests. That is why it is no accident that more than a colleague, 90% of the MPs, representatives of the citizens, are representing this policy. About the crisis in the EU. I think very often over the past few years, we have shown the EU picture quite ideally, as if it were an ideal space in which nothing is changing. So we imagine a positive environment -- we've achieved something now, and now there's no change, let's keep what we've achieved. The European Union is exactly the one community that has changed the most through its crises and every further degree of integration in the EU has actually been the result of a crisis. I believe that the EU will find ways and strength to solve this current crisis. It is important for us to understand that only if, in our political life, in our economic life, in society in general, we have achieved one understanding of EU standards can we really have a chance to progress. It was said whether the date was relevant and how long the negotiations would take. Negotiations will last as long as they last, but I think it's the essence of the process we have in the country. I think you'll agree that even accession negotiations actually have three levels. One is the level of negotiations in Brussels, the other are the reforms we are conducting at home and the third is what communication is. So how do we communicate and information about what is being negotiated in Brussels and the reforms we are launching at home, how we inform citizens, how we provide support for the further course of reforms, and how this is the second level of communication, and reform and what we achieve at home, we communicate the EU. I think that it is right that those who have highlighted another very important segment are right through the role of the Assembly, which is that we are actually negotiating with 28 member states and that in this process various conditions will be set precisely from the perspective of the interests and priorities of individual EU member states. Don't let it surprise us, it's simply a process that has passed in a similar way and other countries. This is why the role of the National Assembly is very important, precisely in creating good co-operation with national parliaments in the Member States, as well as with the European Parliament. Our parliament will have to be much more active, have one proactive attitude towards co-operation, encourage and exchange visits, maintain contacts, exchange of information, etc. So, today may not talk about the date, about the year when we expect the negotiations to end, but what is certain, we need to understand that the time today is a factor and development and success. If we work faster, I think we'll be more successful. In today’s world, slowness is simply punished, for others are progressing ever faster. Someone asked what the price of the accession process would be. It is certain that reforms themselves cost money. They'll be one certain expense in our budget system. That is why it is of paramount importance to really make a priority on economic reforms and to change the economic system in which we live and work, because, ultimately, through the enlargement strategy document adopted by the European Commission in October of this year, economic governance is as a concept, as one of the criteria that will apply to us as one of the very important conditions that the European Commission will assess in relation to each country that begins negotiations. It is certain, however, that these are two processes that are mutually conditional and encouraging and that economic reforms, on the one hand, encourage development, but itself reform and institutions, creating a legal framework, an independent judiciary, so judicial reform, the fight against corruption, is what creates conditions somewhere to engage capital, attract foreign investment and create new jobs. These are two processes that go together and are conditional on each other. But dialogue, both political, social, civil, and I believe that the role of the Assembly in the process of monitoring negotiations should not be exhausted only through discussion and consideration of the negotiating positions. It is seen, above all, as a broad process of consultation in all these months that precedes us, even before the first negotiating position comes to our agenda, when in collaboration with the civil sector, with professional associations, with business associations, we will discuss concrete solutions and reforms that will come on the agenda. The debate discusses issues that we have not reached agreement on on the working group. One question is the mention of concrete economic branches. On both the Committee on European Integration and the Working Group, he proposed that agriculture be included as a priority business branch to be taken into account. None of the members of the working group or the Committee denied the importance of agriculture, however, the majority felt that no branch should be particularly stressed, but that it is understood that those branches that have priority for Serbia should be particularly promoted and protected. The second issue is the participation of the representatives of the Committee on European Integration in the Council of the Co-ordination Body, and that is the question that MPs today will decide by voting on the amendment of fellow Members. In view of the noting that the relationship between the Committee on European Integration and the National Assembly has not been defined, in this respect we have used first and foremost the experiences of other parliaments and what I have already said in one of the previous interventions, this solution that we are adopting today may not be a final solution, perhaps we will continue to expand the role of the National Assembly in this process of monitoring the negotiations. At this point, we have assessed, given the mood for any amendments to the Rules of Procedure, we, of course, based the role of the Assembly on constitutional provisions, legislative provisions and business provisions, have assessed that this is a good measure today. In the end, I am really pleased that the members of the task force on their part, both from the opposition and from the ruling majority, have in some way praised the work process in the working group. As someone who coordinated the process, it did not seem like I was talking about it, but I am glad that they had that impression of working on the working group method and I believe that both the tone and the atmosphere from the working group have been passed on to the Committee on European Integration and, to a good extent, to the debate in the tide today. I want to finally thank all the members of the working group who have contributed to the drafting of this text, as well as the professional service of the National Assembly who has really helped and this text is defined in this way. In the end, it depends on what resolution we will apply in the months ahead. Once again, I want to thank everyone for the support that has been expressed and in this debate today, and I believe that it will reflect itself during the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30631	I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a resolution. In voting day, the National Assembly will decide on a motion for a resolution in principle, detail and general. We're going back to work. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to conduct a joint single search of the point. On the 16th and 17th agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, according to Article 192, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. You have time in hand. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 2(2) of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act and Decision on a proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 7(1). The Anti-Corruption Agency Act. Does the People's Ambassador Zoran Babic, the Proposer, want the word? (No) Is the word Vladimir Cvian, a committee reporter? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30632	The Serbian Renewal Movement and the Democratic Party of Serbia have been part of a group of sides that have since the start of the renewal of the multi-party system in Serbia, especially after 2000 and after major abuses in the privatisation process and the continuation of the traditional networking of criminal groups and the criminalisation of society, considered the social situation in the work absolutely unbearable. Mr. Vladan Batic, founder of the DHSS as justice minister, also proposed the establishment of a special court to fight corruption with the existence of a Court of Justice against organised crime as a special court, which, with the Special Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes, belongs to the category of the country's best-rated courts. The work of the Anti-Corruption Agency as one of the most important bodies in the judiciary, with citizens, with the MUP, the prosecution and all other state institutions plays a very important role in the fight against corruption. But some public opinion research shows that, let's say, 20% of our citizens have nothing against giving and receiving bribes and that the fight against corruption is not considered a priority of this society, which is, in any case, conditioned primarily by the economic situation and the economic problems that burden our citizens. The authentic interpretation of Article 2(2) point (7) of Article 1(1). The Anti-Corruption Agency Act, in the opinion of our parliamentary group, as the law specified, we didn't think it necessary at all. However, practice has shown that the Anti-Corruption Agency is unfortunately often expanding the law and interpreting it in a way that is inadmissible to us and that is more like abuse of power than exercise of authority. That is exactly the practice of the Anti-Corruption Agency initiating and submitting such an initiative for the authentic interpretation of this Article 2. According to Article 2, each official is the elected, appointed or appointed person of the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous Province, the units of local self-government and public enterprise bodies and companies, institutions and other organisations whose founder, or member of the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government or other person elected by the National Assembly. This member is very legally clear, unequivocal and leaves no room for any dilemma. That's what it looks like at first sight. However, it is obvious that those powers, which we as the National Assembly have given to the Anti-Corruption Agency, in the sense that they adopt legal opinions to enforce the law, are going in another direction. So, for example, legal opinion since 17 February 2010, which was adopted by the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee, according to our parliamentary group, goes so widely that it literally changes the law and changes the provisions of this quoted member. The authentic interpretation, which the National Assembly should adopt, says that this provision should be understood in such a way that it does not apply and does not apply to elected, appointed or appointed persons in the bodies of companies, the founder of which is a public enterprise, because the said provision does not indicate that the functioner is each elected, appointed or appointed person in the bodies of companies, whose company is the founder. Again, a very clear proposal for interpretation. For what? If there is talk of founders, and only the Republic of Serbia, autonomous province and units of local self-government are mentioned as founders, the question arises - how can the Anti-Corruption Agency be considered as the official of any elected person whose founder is a public enterprise? Is it possible that the Anti-Corruption Agency does not distinguish between the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous province, units of local self-government and public enterprises. That's what you learn in the first year of law school. I have even decisions from the Agency that the Agency says, in fact, that there is no broken law, but the Agency's opinion has been injured, according to which the Agency finds that the company is, in fact, a social enterprise. Many elected officials come under the influence of the Anti-Corruption Agency, because there are simply persons who do such a responsible job, who do not know what a first year of law school student knows. Is it possible that the National Assembly should declare that the Anti-Corruption Agency should distinguish between the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous province and the unit of local self-government, as founders or members of companies and public enterprises? Unfortunately, practice has shown that it is necessary. Now, what is the disputed legal position of the Anti-Corruption Agency since 17 February 2010, and in what legal position does the Agency base many of its decisions? I am deeply convinced that this legal position, since 17 February 2010, has changed the law and that the Anti-Corruption Agency is taking over the responsibilities of the National Assembly and instead of developing these two provisions, which means the founder and what the member means. A member means that the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government have shares in a company or shares in a shareholder society, there is a start or an end, or that they are founders of companies or that they have a share of founding capital in a company. Why, in practice, did the Agency find it necessary that, if a public company appears as the founder of another public enterprise, the persons appointed in those bodies are considered officials and that it inadmissiblely widely interprets such a provision? What does the disputed legal opinion say since 17 February 2010? It says that within the meaning of Article 2, indent 2. The law, the official of each elected, appointed or appointed representative of the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous Province, the unit of local self-government or public enterprise, which does not exist in law, in bodies, other organisations which, among other things, are considered a social enterprise that is not privatised. This is where the Agency retreats from the members of the law again. The company, we all know, was a labor and capital association and could be founded by some association of pensioners, tenants, hunters, anyone. Does this mean that the founder of such a social enterprise, which is not privatised and where the state intervened because the deadlines for entering the privatisation process are not respected for a social enterprise, state, local self-government or autonomous province? Absolutely not. What does a pensioner's association have to do with it, which pooled its work and capital, funds and founded 35, 40, 50 years ago a social enterprise, so that the Privatisation Agency would consider the functioner to be someone in the organs of the company. The legal entity whose privatisation contract was terminated by the Privatisation Agency. Legal entity, we know who could be the founder of some legal entity. The law does not say at all, in any of its provisions, that officials are appointed persons in these bodies, any business society, in respect of whose privatisation the privatisation contract is terminated. Again, the Anti-Corruption Agency, the fastest possible, by respecting some legal systems from some major countries, modern legal systems, in which judges often say – just give me a man, I will easily find a member. There was an Inquisitor principle, “just give me a statement, someone's sentence, and we will condemn it. ” It's about that logic of the Anti-Corruption Agency, whose work we once again fully support, but what kind of work? Work strictly within the framework of the law. If one day the law changes in this sense, which probably has legal logic and social needs, then that's how it should be applied. But as it goes, there must be no abuse. Then, in a legal opinion since 17 February 2010, it is said that the official is also considered to be each elected and appointed, appointed representative of the Republic of Serbia and the Autonomous province and unit of local self-government in a company or bank whose founder is a shareholder or member of the Republic of Serbia or an autonomous province, a unit of local self-government or a public enterprise. Once again, a public company, retreats from Article 2. The Anti-Corruption Agency Act. In accordance with Article 99, point 7. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is the exclusive and sole jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In the hierarchy of legal acts under Article 195. The constitution, all the general acts of organisations entrusted with public powers, such as the Anti-Corruption Agency's acts, must be compatible with the law, as well as with the legal opinion of the agency which must be in accordance with the law, and we see that neither the legal acts of the Agency, which can only be used to enforce the law... This legal opinion could only dispel these two conditions: what the founder means and what a member means, and cannot extend this provision to what the law does not say. There is an old Roman rule of ignoring yuris night – ignorance of the law damages. But it was primarily about citizens and ignorant parties who had no professional assistance and would always be in legal lag and handicap because they do not know or respect the law. This must never happen to anyone who exercises public authority under the law and applies the law. As a result, our parliamentary group believes that not only is this authentic interpretation, I was somehow prejudiced, given the large number of performances, given the large number of deviations in the application of the Anti-Corruption Agency, the deviation from legal authority that the day will come when the National Assembly will make known by its authentic interpretation of all this. What is also important, in the area of the fight against corruption and crime, is that with the very important role of the Anti-Corruption Agency, only 35% of citizens believe that bribes should be reported to the police. A large number of citizens, the majority, believe it is such a general social phenomenon that it is absolutely pointless to report to any state authority and that is another indicator in the weakness of our institutions, the mistrust of citizens to our institutions, and if the Anti-Corruption Agency itself, which is so one of the first institutions on this echelon, the fight against corruption itself does not apply the law in a valid way, then, in the beginning, the very important institution in democratic countries has lost confidence with these decisions of the agency. Of the reported corruption crimes, most of them are abuses of the official position, about 62%. There are then a lot of reports of violations of the law by the judge, the public prosecutor and their deputies around 16%, 11%, embezzlement, 2.5% of criminal acts of bribery, and only 1.5% go based on citizens' reports. Public prosecutors reject about 49% of applications on average. All 10% of citizens' applications end with an indictment. There are about 61% of the acquittals before the court, in only three cases there are convicted judges and prosecutors, and in the judiciary there is a huge disproportion in the application of the law in one of the same crimes, which is again one of the indicators of the situation in our judicial system. An anti-corruption strategy, many believe there are many shortcomings and there is a greater need for its transparency. What is the applicant of the initiative for authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 2(2) point 7(1). The Anti-Corruption Agency Act, once again, has caused current practice in the application of the law by the Anti-Corruption Agency. All that I have said must not be seen as an attack on an important independent regulatory body, one of the most important bodies in the anti-corruption fight, but we have always seen as a political party that, on this European path, Serbia, and until recently, we have had a debate on the resolution of the National Assembly of Serbia, concerning the launch of negotiations on Serbia's accession to the EU, that we must be fully European in everything. As a result, our parliamentary group is seeking that the Anti-Corruption Agency in its operation exclusively adheres to the Constitution and the law, that legal opinionators are at the lowest level of legal acts and serve only to remove possible concerns, must not be misused, used for amending the law, for their deviating interpretation and for the marketing fight of the Anti-Corruption Agency, that they have literally caught everyone. For this reason, for all the other reasons that the initiative which the applicant had for this proposal for authentic interpretation of this article, we believe that it is indeed practice that has shown that an authentic interpretation is necessary. On the other hand, another question arises, since, if I am not mistaken, in 2008, we passed a law to the Anti-Corruption Agency, or a law to prevent conflicts of interest in the exercise of public office, then in 2010 the Anti-Corruption Agency law, did this law in practice show its inadequacy? Absolutely yes, and we think that the text of the law itself and practice has shown that it could have been much better, that as far as functionors are concerned, that the circle of officials should have been wider, but since this law does not foresee it then it also binds the hands of the agency to, in the sense of their justice and justice, I say, extend the law and interpret it as it does not write. By defending the letter of the law, we also defend legality in the application of the law. When she was here a few months ago, submitting an annual report on the Anti-Corruption Agency, the director of the Agency, I was on behalf of our parliamentary group exactly that the Anti-Corruption Agency Act needed to be amended, that in practice he showed his doubts, but it is obvious that the Anti-Corruption Agency is also missing lawyers who will apply the law well and correctly, and who will not apply it in such a deviant and wrong way that the National Assembly will have to intervene with its authentic interpretation. It is very rare in practice that the National Assembly brings authentic interpretation of the provisions of a member who brought it herself, but that is the life of a need and therefore our MP group in the voting day, for all the reasons that I have stated, will vote for the adoption of such authentic interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30633	Since there are no more entries for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if the President, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) I am concluding a joint single search. We're going to the next item on the agenda. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for decisions of paragraphs 18, 19 and 20 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the appointment of the heads of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to international parliamentary institutions. Do the representatives of the promoter, or does the promoter, want a word? (No) Does the rapporteur of the Constitutional Affairs Committee want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Since there are no reports on the lists of MPs, I ask if anyone who has not used his right wants a word? (No) I am concluding a joint Single Search on the motions for decisions referred to in points 18, 19 and 20 of the agenda. We move to the 21st point of the agenda – Proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Board of Governors of the National Bank of Serbia You have received a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors, who has submitted the Committee for Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. I remind you that, according to Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the proposal for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? (No) Does the committee's rapporteur want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Since there have been no reports on the lists of parliamentary groups, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if he wants to speak to the president, or to the representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) I am concluding a unique search. I'm setting a break to 1800 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-16-0.u30634	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. You have been presented with a proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of public prosecutors in the main public prosecutions, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, with a proposal to be submitted on the basis of Article 168(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall, by emergency procedure, be placed in the agenda of this session. I remind you that under the said Rule of Procedure, the National Assembly on this proposal may decide on the condition that the session is attended by most of the total number of MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 127 MPs are present in the hall, and that there are conditions for decision-making. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government to include in the agenda a proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of public prosecutors in the main public prosecutions. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 125, no one, with abstentions, voted 13 out of the total of 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Dear colleagues, you have received a proposal for a decision made by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government. I remind you that according to article 193 and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 201(2) and Article 202. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening an investigation into the motion for a decision to suspend the role of public prosecutors in the main public prosecutions. Does the proposing representative, Mr Petar Petrovic, chairman of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government want a word? (No) Do the experts of other committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Since there have been no reports on the lists of parliamentary groups, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) I'm finishing the search. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set out on 16 December 2013, starting at 18.14 p.m. as a day for voting on all items of the agenda of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, except for points 1 to 14 of the agenda, which the National Assembly had voted on earlier. Before we move to decision-making, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the electronic system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 140 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. We move to the 15th item of the agenda – Proposal for a RESOLUATION ON THE INVESTIGATION OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY AND PRINCIPLES IN THE TREATY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA OF THE EUROPEAN UNION Since the National Assembly has conducted a single search on the motion for a resolution, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a resolution on the role of the National Assembly and the principles in the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 158, against – nine abstentions – there are no MPs, who have not voted from a total of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the motion for a resolution in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. On point 11. The amendment was jointly tabled by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 29, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 139 of the total attendance of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the motion for a resolution in general. I put to the vote the motion for a resolution on the role of the National Assembly and the principles in the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 158, against – nine abstentions – there are no votes, two of the total attendance of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a motion for a resolution on the role of the National Assembly and the principles of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union by majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 16th point of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE AUTHENTIC InterpretATION OF ARTICLE 2. THE ALINE OF A SECOND LAW ON THE AGENCY TO FIGHT CORRUPTION Since the National Assembly has conducted a search for a proposal for authentic interpretation, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 2 of the Second Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – no one, with abstention – voted 37 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 2 of the Second Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency. Moving to the 17th point of the agenda — DECISIONS ON THE PROPOSAL OF THE AUTHORITIES OF ARTICLE 7. Article 1 LAW ON THE AGENCY TO FIGHT CORRUPTION BEFORE we move on to a decision on a proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 7(1). The Anti-Corruption Agency Act, submitted by MP Zoran Babic, reminds you that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has assessed that this proposal is not justified, which was submitted by the Report to the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 194(3) and (4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, if the committee in charge assesses that the proposal for the adoption of authentic interpretation of the law is not justified, the National Assembly shall decide on the proposal, and if it adopts the proposal, the committee responsible will assign it to make up a proposal for authentic interpretation. In light of this provision, we move on to a decision. I would like to put the motion to vote for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 7(1). The Anti-Corruption Agency Act. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 141 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. We move to the 18th item of the agenda - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE MEETING OF MEMBER STATES AND THE REFERENCE OF THE MEMBER STATES After the National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2 point 15, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs, also performs other electoral powers. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 147, no one, with abstentions, voted nine out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted a draft decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputy members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia. We move to the 19th item of the agenda – I am putting to the vote the proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, no one, with abstentions, voted 16 of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal to supplement the Decision on the election of members and deputy members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, by majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 20th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE SPECIFIC DELEGATION OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARLAMENTAL INSTITUTIONS After the National Assembly has conducted a search and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, under Article 105 paragraph 2 of Article 15), the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all Members of the national parliaments, is exercising electoral authority. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision appointing the heads of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to international parliamentary institutions. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the votes of all MPs a draft decision amending the Decision appointing the heads of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to international parliamentary institutions. We move to the 21st point of the agenda – the proposal for a decision on the election of a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors since the National Assembly carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 14) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides to select a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors. I am voting on a motion for a decision on the election of a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors. Please make a statement. MPs say there are certain problems. You've seen it's taken a long time for some voices to register. Since there are obviously some problems with the electronic system, I'm setting a 15-minute break. Since the errors have been removed, we continue to work. [[After a break.]] I am voting on a motion for a decision on the election of a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors. Please make a statement. I find that 126 MPs voted in favour and that the National Assembly made a decision by majority of the votes of all MPs to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors. Let me congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the elected member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors on the election and wish him much success in his work. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search on the draft decision of the 22nd agenda, before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105(2), point 12. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia decides on the termination of the public prosecutor's office by a majority vote of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the termination of the office of public prosecutors in the main public prosecutor's offices. Please make a statement. I'm closing the vote. 128 MPs voted in favour, and I find that the National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision to suspend public prosecutors in the main public prosecutions by majority of the votes of all MPs. I remind you of the provisions laid down in Articles 103, 6 and 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, and if, following an explanation by the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may request without the right to explain that the National Assembly is to declare itself in the day of the vote. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, at a session on 6 December 2013 at 18 hours and 20 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether or not the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. No one was in favor, against or abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Bojan Djuric, at a session on 9 December 2013 at 11.00 p.m., pointed to a 27-member injury. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether or not the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. No one was in favor, against or abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Janko Veselinović, at a session on December 0, 2013 at 11 o'clock and 17 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether or not the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. No one was in favor, against or abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Slobodan Jeremic, at a session on December 9th, 2013 at 17 hours and 10 minutes, pointed to the violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether or not the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, voted – 116 of the total of 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Borislav Stefanovic, at a session on 10 December 2013 at 15 hours and 43 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 27 and 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, the abstentions did not vote 122 of the total of 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Veroljub Arsic, at a session on 10 December 2013 at 16 hours and 10 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 104(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether or not the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 125 of the total of 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Saša Milenić, at a session on 10 December 2013 at 16 hours and 17 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 106(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether or not the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. No one was in favor, against or abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zvonimir Stevic, at a session on 16 December 2013 at 14 hours and 20 minutes, pointed to the injuries of members 106 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 110 of the total of 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Zvonimir Stevic, at a session on 16 December 2013 at 14 hours and 35 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether or not the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 109 of the total of 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out and considered all points of the sitting agenda and deciding on them, pursuant to Article 102. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly closes the sixth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013.
