ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14585	Dear People's MPs, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on the official record of the session, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs: Sasa Dujovic and Milorad Mijatovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have called on today's session, in addition to representatives of Ivica Dacic, Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Ivan Mrkic, Foreign Minister and Nikola Selakovic, Minister of Justice and State Administration to attend and Zoran Markovic, Secretary General of the Foreign Ministry, Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, Natasa Kalezic, Head of the Department of International Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mira Jegdić, first adviser in the Department of International Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Nina Veličković, first adviser in the Department of International Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We continue to work and move on to a common, principled single search on Bill Proposals under points 8, 9, 10 and 12 of the agenda. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled single search on drafts of the agenda under points 8, 9, 10 and 12 and before the opening of the search reminds you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, which is the details of which you have received in the material. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157, paragraphs 2 and 170 are replaced by the following: I am opening the MP of the National Assembly a joint, principled and uniform search on the draft law on the completion of international contracts, a bill on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the work of members of the family of the staff of diplomatic and consular representatives, a bill on the certification of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the State of Israel on the employment of members of the family of diplomatic or consular staff and a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on police co-operation. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14586	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the ministries, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you a bill on the conclusion and execution of international contracts that I would like to say a few words first. An important law regulating the area of conclusion and enforcement of international contracts was passed more than 30 years ago in 1978. In the meantime, since there has been a change in the state legal subjectivity, state regulation and the legal system, there is a need to pass a new law that will regulate this matter in agreement with new constitutional legal solutions, as well as the modern development of international contract law and practice. The subject matter of the law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts is regulated until the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, as well as other issues relating to international contracts. These other issues concern the entry into force of the contract, the termination of the international contracts, the placing and withdrawal of reserves and declarations and interpretative statements on multilateral international contracts and the like. The procedure for the conclusion of international contracts does not differ significantly from the procedure provided for in the provisions of the applicable law. In particular, the negotiation process and the conclusion of international contracts shall be initiated by the Government on its own initiative or on a proposal from the competent authority of the State administration, in which the issues regulated by the contract are in the works. The competent authority shall propose to the Government the launch of a procedure for the conduct of negotiations and the conclusion of an international contract if it finds that certain issues need to be arranged with other States and international organisations. The law also regulates a circle of entities that can submit an initiative to initiate the procedure, to conduct negotiations and to conclude an international contract involving other state bodies, economic operators or associations, as well as the procedure under the initiative. The law more precisely regulates the content of the proposal for a basis for the conduct of negotiations and the conclusion of international contracts which constitute an act initiating the conclusion of the contract. The law provides for the possibility that the government, in exceptional cases, may authorise a delegation of the Republic of Serbia to accept that an international contract which is subject to confirmation in general or certain provisions thereof is temporarily applied until its entry into force. The reasons why a temporary application of a specific international contract is proposed must be particularly explained in the proposal for a basis. If a temporary change is agreed, the confirmation procedure must be initiated within 30 days of the date of signature of the contract. The law regulates the procedure for confirming international contracts, the content of the certification law and provides for the obligation to attach the opinion of the competent authorities to the draft law on certification. This law fulfils the obligation arising from Article 99 paragraph 4 of the Constitution by regulating which international contracts are confirmed by the National Assembly. In particular, this article found that the National Assembly confirms international agreements, military, political and economic nature, contracts that create financial commitments for the Republic of Serbia, contracts that require the adoption of new or amendments to existing rules and contracts which deviate from existing legal solutions. Contracts which do not fall within those criteria of international contracts shall be concluded in accordance with the envisaged procedure, so as not to be subject to confirmation. The process of concluding international contracts at diplomatic conferences, mixed intergovernmental bodies, as well as the accession of the Republic of Serbia to multilateral international agreements, provides for a similar application of this law. The law introduces a category of special international contracts, which, in order to achieve co-operation, are concluded by the competent authorities of the state administration with the competent authorities of the state administration of other countries. It is about international contracts concluded by the ministries and sometimes other authorities of the state administration. Specific international contracts shall establish and regulate the co-operation of the competent authorities of the state administration with the same bodies of one or more states. The same cannot take on new obligations that would affect legal matter. This type of contract has become common in the contract practice of most states, which have introduced these contracts into their legal order for the last two decades. The law stipulates that the Law confirming a multilateral international contract can authorise the government to accept amendments and supplement the technical regulations adopted on the basis of international contracts. Such a provision has been introduced, given the nature of the rules to be adopted on the basis of certain international contracts which are of minor importance and technical character and due to relatively short deadlines in which the state should declare its acceptance. The law provides for the obligation of the competent authorities of the state administration to monitor the execution of international contracts, to inform the government, as well as the government's obligation to notify the National Assembly of the execution of international contracts confirmed by the National Assembly. Amendments to international contracts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty itself and the general rules of international law adopted. The procedure for amending the international contract also follows the provisions of this law, which relate to its conclusion. The withdrawal of reserves or amendments to declarations and interpretative statements shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the contract itself and the general rules of international law adopted. The law stipulates that the procedure prescribed for the conclusion of international contracts shall be applied accordingly to withdraw or amend declarations or interpretational declarations. However, the National Assembly may authorise the Government to withdraw or amend declarations or interpretative statements by means of the Law on the Confirmation of an International Treaty. This law also regulates the termination of international contracts, so that international contracts cease to apply in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty itself and the general rules of international law. The procedure for the termination of the international contract shall be subject to the provisions of this law relating to its conclusion. Since there is a need for competent authorities and interested parties to learn about the facts relating to the validity and application of international contracts, the law contains a greater number of provisions concerning the publication of international, inter-state contracts and data relating to their validity. The Act on the approval of an international contract, the date of its entry into force, the amendments and addition of technical regulations adopted on the basis of international contracts and the date of termination of the international contract shall be published. International contracts for which there is no confirmation obligation by the National Assembly and specific international contracts concluded by the competent authorities of the State Administration with the relevant authorities of other States may be published. You are also presented with proposals for an agreement concluded with the Republic of Slovenia and with the state of Israel, concerning the employment of members of the family of staff of diplomatic and consular offices. The draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the state of Israel on the employment of members of the family of diplomatic or consular staff proposes that the agreement signed in Jerusalem be confirmed on 13 November 2012. The draft law approving the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the handling of paid jobs by members of the family of staff of diplomatic and consular offices is proposing to confirm the agreement reached in Ljubljana on 26 October 2012. The purpose of these agreements is to enable, on a reciprocal basis, employment, in addition to compensation, members of the families of diplomatic and other staff of the state of appointment in the country of reception, in accordance with the internal rules of the state of reception. To that end, the agreements set out a circle of persons representing members of the family of staff of diplomatic and consular offices. In concrete agreements, family members make up a married or out-of-marriage spouse and children who meet the criteria for age and regular schooling. The conclusion of this type of bilateral contract, in the last decade, has become a common international practice. They allow the preservation of normal family life, i.e. the preservation of the integrity of families of diplomatic and consular representatives. It has been noted that the effects of the work of diplomatic and consular representatives, in the case of family separation, are less than the effects of the work of those representatives who perform their duties on the arranged family occasions, when the family is gathered in the place of service. This type of agreement, the abovementioned circle of persons, limits immunities in civil and administrative proceedings, in relation to works arising from the performance of paid activities, which would otherwise belong to them under the provisions of the Vienna Conventions on diplomatic and consular relations. Subject agreements between the Contracting State undertake to seriously consider any written request for refusal of criminal immunity when it comes to immunity from criminal proceedings. The process of hiring members of the family of staff of diplomatic and consular representations in relation to the recruitment procedure of other foreigners differs from these agreements, in that the protocol of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the State of reception, at the request of the diplomatic and consular representative of the country of appointment, following the procedure implemented, issues prior authorisation for the employment of a family member. The agreements provide that members of the family of staff of diplomatic and consular representatives of the appointing state, employees in the country of reception fall under the social security regime and taxation of the state of reception regarding all issues concerning their employment in that country. So far, these contracts have been concluded with Canada in 2004, the United States in 2006, the Netherlands in 2010, Spain and Belgium also in 2010, Argentina, Slovenia, Israel in 2012, 2013 with Turkey and Macedonia, of which agreements with Canada, the United States, the Netherlands, Spain and Argentina have been in force. With Albania, Portugal, Germany, Switzerland, Romania, Brazil and Australia, negotiations are under way to conclude such contracts. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is also a bill before you to confirm the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on police co-operation. In early 2011, the Slovenian Interior Ministry launched an initiative to conclude a co-operation agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Although the name did not point to the subject matter of the agreement, the preamble to the proposal made it clear that it was a type agreement on police co-operation. After receiving the proposal, the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia is launching an internal procedure designed to prepare international agreements. After the procedure, the Serbian alternative of the proposed text was made up and delivered to the Slovenian party in May of the same year, but this time under the name – a police co-operation agreement, discreetly recognised by standards the ministry adheres to in the formation of the provisions of future international agreements, as well as national legislation, with the aim of bringing the text into line in advance through official correspondence to the greatest extent in order to complete the negotiations in one round. After a year, the issue of the continuation of negotiations is being updated again, and the Slovenian side is delivering a draft, which has been assessed as a solid basis for the start of direct negotiations in our MUP. At the invitation of the Ministry of Interior, the Slovenian delegation was in Belgrade on 24 and 25 October 2012. This was the first and only round of negotiations, in which the text was fully agreed. The delegations of both sides agreed on this text and in one, you can say, the friendly atmosphere has passed the negotiations. The preamble of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on police co-operation lists one convention, as well as the recommendations of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers, both of which refer to the protection of personal data, which obliges foreign signatories to implement the highest standards in this area, which are: the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Persons with regard to the automatic processing of personality data from 1981, as well as recommendations from the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers to regulate the use of personal data by police in 1987. The first member of the Agreement has been defined by the scope of co-operation which has been laid out broadly and which can identify all the relevant lines of work of the Republic of Serbia's MUP – public order area, traffic security, lighting of criminal offences, organised crime, trafficking of human beings, illegal migration, high-tech crime, the fight against drug trafficking, which has led the parties to a consensus on the development of police co-operation in its full scope and full capacity. This is how the scope of co-operation allows all police directorates to recognise the basis for the development of co-operation from the workarounds of their responsibilities, which can be done through the pre-established forms of cooperation governed by Article 2. Agreement. In particular, as an initial form of co-operation, Article 2 sets out the exchange of information as the basis for any further activity. Police co-operation includes police surveillance, controlled delivery, covert operations, witness protection, joint investigation teams, liaison officers and others. It is important to point out that both parties have provided for the application of national legislation as the basic starting legal framework, which remains recognized and binding in the bilateral contract. In the rest of the Agreement, a large number of provisions refer to the national legislation of the party to the signature provided for in the area of protection of personal data. The foreign signatories agreed that this highly sensitive area is treated in accordance with national rules, i.e. that the international contract contains provisions derived from national legislation, as there is special attention to this area of law, to protect citizens to the greatest extent possible from the possible misuse of their data when conducting a police investigation. The competent authorities of the Contracting Parties are the Ministry of Interior and Police Directorates on both sides, which is set out in Article 4 of this Agreement. Article 8 The agreement found that each party will bear its own costs when implementing co-operation, a standard formulation for this type of international agreement. The nine members were left with the possibility of concluding additional protocols as administrative agreements, in order to bring issues related to the application of a particular form of co-operation closer. For example – controlled delivery or sending of liaison officers. The entry into force of this Agreement ceases to be an agreement between the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on co-operation in the fight against organised crime, trafficking in illicit drugs and psychotropic substances, terrorism and other serious crimes, signed in Ljubljana on 6 May 2001. There are no specificities in the other provisions of this Agreement that need to be particularly highlighted. I hope that by your votes, I am confident, you will support the adoption of these three agreements and the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14587	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a folk MP, Djordje Kosanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14588	Dear Ministers, Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a united debate on four draft laws: a draft law on the conclusion and execution of international contracts, which I will look at the most, and then two draft laws, which are identical, on the confirmation of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Israel on the dealings of paid family members of the staff of the diplomatic and consular representation and the draft law on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on police co-operation. I will immediately say that in the day to vote, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support these bill proposals. Otherwise, my presentation today will focus on the draft law on the conclusion and execution of international contracts. Of course, I’ll look back on the other drafts of the law a little later. At the very beginning, I will say that the Single Serbia parliamentary group supports the bill that regulates the conclusion process, the enforcement of international contracts, as well as other issues related to international contracts. Speaking of international contracts, I must point out that each agreement is concluded between two or more international law entities, which is governed by international law, whether it is contained in a single document or in several interrelated documents, regardless of its special name. It should certainly be pointed out that each international contract confirmed by the legislative bodies of the Contracting States and by its legal power is above the laws and sublegal acts, although it is sometimes disputed because not all countries are ready to give up such a denunciation. International contracts, this is generally known, but I will say, can bear various names, such as – contract, convention, act, pact, memorandum, charter, statute. The most significant division, and this is probably known, was carried out by international contract theorists Han Stripel, and it refers to contracts, laws and contract contracts anyway. International contracts may be concluded between two, otherwise, bilateral, which is generally known, or a multilateral subject of international law, i.e. State, international organisations and others. However, international contracts differ in the moment of signing until the moment of entry into force of the contract. This depends on ratification, i.e. exchange of documents and adoption by parliaments of signatories. Only by their confirmation of the international treaty has it taken over into the internal legal system of each of the Contracting States and as such enters into force and its application begins. Returning to the bill itself and the reasons for its adoption, I will say that the current law, which defines the area of adoption, conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, was adopted long ago in 1978 and, of course, there is a need for the adoption of a new law that will regulate this matter according to constitutional and legal solutions. This substance, which has been regulated in international terms by the Vienna Convention and the Convention on the Law of the Treaty between State and International Organisations, should also be brought into line with international development of international contract law and practice, as certain changes have occurred in such a long period of time. I mentioned the Vienna Convention earlier, and speaking of the Vienna Convention, I will say that the right of international contracts is a branch within the general international law that covers regulations, legal principles relating to international contracts. The rules of international law today are largely codified. The general codification of the rules in international contracts was carried out within the UN, by adopting three conventions, I will only mention two. So, the first Vienna Convention on the Rights of International Contracts was adopted in Vienna on 22 May 1969 and entered into force on 27 January 1970, and the Vienna Convention has 180 states of parties, the situation came into force from January 2007. Second, the Vienna Convention on the Law of International Contracts between States and International Organisations was adopted on 21 March 1986. This Convention adopted solutions that "Mutatis Mutandis" or "Latin translated "on the necessary changes", are the same solutions to the 1969 Vienna Convention. Returning to the bill itself and speaking about individual solutions, of course, I cannot comment on each point individually, but I will say what is most important to me in this bill, I will say that this law regulates the procedure for the conclusion of international contracts, as well as other issues concerning international contracts, such as the entry into force and the termination of the importance of international contracts, the placing and withdrawal of the reserves of declarations, interpretive statements on international contracts, etc. The law also defines the concept of an international contract which, in accordance with the Vienna Convention that I had just said earlier, so that international contracts are defined as a contract which the Republic of Serbia concludes in writing with one or more states, or international organisations, which is regulated by international law independently of its name and whether it is contained in one or more interrelated instruments. The Protocol, records and other international acts which are intended to implement international acts shall be concluded, or adopted by bodies empowered or established by those contracts, which are not subject to new obligations, shall not be considered in the meaning of this Act as an international contract. To initiate the negotiation process and conclude international contracts, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is competent to initiate the procedure on its own initiative or on a proposal from the competent authority of the state administration. The basis for the conduct of negotiations and the conclusion of international contracts is determined by the Government, which is at the same time a position, the composition of a delegation to conduct, of course, negotiations. Article 11 to 16 regulates the approval of international contracts. The category of special international contracts shall also be maintained. It's about contracts mostly concluded by the ministries, and sometimes other authorities of the state administration. Original copies of signed international contracts and other international acts shall be recorded and kept in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The government also takes care of the enforcement of international contracts through the competent authority of the state administration. Commenting on this, I'm going to say another Article 28 is regulated by the termination of the international treaty. What is important for us, for the JS, by talking about the contracts themselves, is the fact that by signing any contract that contributes to improving co-operation with other countries and thus achieves a wide range of opportunities for co-operation in other areas that can certainly contribute to the country's comprehensive prosperity. Of course, as far as this bill is concerned, I will say that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support this bill. In further statements, I will refer to three agreements in this united debate. Speaking of the bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the conduct of paid jobs of family members, staff, diplomatic consular representation and the proposal, I again said this with a minority identical bill and a bill on the validation of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Israel on the employment of members of the family of diplomatic consular staff. Once again, I will say this is a minority of the same subject, the same bill and between the countries mentioned on a reciprocal basis allows for employment with the compensation of members of the family of the diplomatic consular office, in accordance with the internal regulations of the country in which the job is sought. According to the provisions of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, diplomatic consular staff and members of their families are prohibited from engaged in democratic activities in the countries of reception, in recent years it has become a practice of common international legal practice to conclude bilateral agreements allowing employment on a reciprocal basis. The reason for signing such agreements lies in the fact that in many countries spouses refuse to leave their jobs to follow a diplomatic consular representative abroad. The basic goal is to preserve family life, because the effects of work are much higher when the family is together, than when that is not the case. Finally speaking about the bill's proposal briefly to confirm a political co-operation agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I will say that this agreement is a need for further strengthening, improving police co-operation between the two countries. Although it should be stressed that co-operation has been high so far, especially in the area of organised crime. This agreement will certainly contribute to making co-operation more concrete, more extensive and quality. I said earlier that every contract contributes to improving co-operation with other countries and certainly deepens co-operation in other areas, and now speaking of Israel and Slovenia it is necessary to point out some more things. I will say that the total foreign trade between Serbia and Israel is about $35m, of which about $15m in exports, or $20m in imports. Israel's investment in Serbia is officially about $50m, although in practice it is much more. What is significant is Israel's annual importing about $40 billion of goods, and this is the most common food, agricultural products, which can be a good resource for Serbia. The same goes for Slovenia. I will say that the external trade exchange between Serbia and Slovenia last year is over 800m euros, but the opportunities are not all used. In the end, I will say that in the voter's day, the JS parliamentary group will support all these bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14589	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Neven the Flowering.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14590	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, the honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament and the People's MPs, I will only talk about one bill that I think is most important in today's agenda. Today, we have before us the Law on the conclusion of international contracts. This is one of the laws in the field of foreign policy that is unusually important for our country in terms of its size and position, because we are often in a situation where we cannot solve what we cannot by force, we have to solve with diplomacy. For a country of about 7 million inhabitants, diplomacy is a resource that is necessary to find its place under the sun and therefore we should not miss any chance to normively regulate this area, which is exactly what makes this law. The more often we have the phenomenon that we have changed several states from the old Socialist Yugoslavia to the SFRY, through the federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the SRJ, through the Serbia-Montenegro community. That we are currently living in an independent Serbia, and that very often there are legal solutions left several decades ago and long ago often laws that were in force in this area of foreign policy, very old, regulate the area we should regulate today. Earlier, the area, as the minister said in its law presentation, was regulated by the 1978 law, which means, let me put it this way, that we have not "proved" this area of international contract law for more than 30 years. Since international contractual practices have changed in the meantime, it was necessary for us to change the norm on this matter and to give recognition to the Government for making time despite all the difficult situations in which our foreign policy is located to take this routine but necessary step. This law is routine and technical, more than it is essential and should be told honestly. This law will not have a cardinal effect on our foreign policy, but if we want to have precise diplomacy, we need to provide it with precise instruments for action, and one of those precise instruments is this law. In particular, this law regulates the area of conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, very important and important. To offer one metaphor – since no country is an island and is directed to other countries and international organisations, international contracts are its window into the world and its bridge to the world. Therefore, it is necessary to regulate this area properly, as this law does. This law modernises the normative solutions in this area, and this law brings some new formulations that could not be found in that legal solution 30 years ago. I carefully read that law 30 years ago that was in force and you know what it says? In the 1978 law, it states that joint work organisations and self-government stakeholders can propose initiatives for international contracts. It is clear that we cannot talk in 2013 about organisations of joint work and self-government interest communities. So we need to clear the laws we have. We have many laws left, some from the SFRY, some from the SRJ, some from the Serbia-Montenegro community, and we have to adjust it to the time in which we live. In this legislative proposal, Article 4 instead of those self-governments, etc., not to repeat, it is clearly said that economic operators and associations can initiate through the competent authorities of the state administration a particular initiative for international contracts. This is particularly important because it enables businesses, society, to participate in the initiation of international and legal activities. Since the state once controlled everything, and today the state, thank God, does not control everything, this law and this legal solution enables society, businesses, economic operators to propose an international and legal activity, to propose some international contract that they think is necessary and finally that the state has a certain interest. Simply saying, while the state or government had previously been an exclusive initiator for all international and legal activities, now space has been left that society and other entities can take part as initiators, which can first and foremost be good for our economy. This law allows the government to receive initiatives from all social entities for its international and legal activity and then assess what is in the country's best interest. It is up to society to make those proposals he thinks are useful, and it is up to the government and the state to assess which of these proposals are useful for the state interest and to try to implement them with international partners. What is also very important and what regulates this law, and there has been a point in the initial presentation of this bill is that this bill regulates the correct procedure according to which one can submit an initiative for international and legal activity. It's something called a proposal for a basis. So, some businessman, a company, if he thinks something is going to be in the state interest, that I'm completely directly growing citizens and getting out of these legal abstractions and diplomatic dictionaries, means if any economic operator or any other association thinks that an international contract would be useful for the state of Serbia and for its interest, it can establish a proposal for a basis, to send it to the government, then the government is considering the proposal for a basis, that is, whether it has a basis for launching the negotiation process and for the possible conclusion of an international contract, which is defined at the point of the 5th of this bill. If it finds that this initiative is valid, the government shall establish the basis for negotiating, establish a delegation and possibly authorise the head of the delegation to sign a specific international contract. These are all type members. These are members who have already been seen in this type of contract. At first glance, nothing special. But we have one member who is very important, which is Article 7, who says that a delegation designated for the conduct of the negotiations cannot deviate from the principles of positions set out in the basics, i.e. a platform for negotiations, thus removing from our foreign policy and international legal action any possibility of improvisation and that someone is acting on his own. So, the thing is, it's pretty simple. The state gives a mandate to someone for international negotiations and the signing of international contracts and is expected to act in accordance with that mandate. In this sense, this law seriousises some solutions from our foreign policy, not only do we no longer have self-government communities, etc., but we have a completely modern and modern text of the law. What is important in Article 7 is that it is possible for the state to have its own clearly defined policy in international and legal matters and that this policy must be implemented objectively, without any leaps, solidarity and improvisation. This law is an instrument that must have every serious state in order to act seriously and responsibly to international partners, without any improvisations, and to know at any moment who has the mandate and the mandate of the state. A serious state cannot allow itself to act improvisedly in foreign policy and in many other areas. This law is something that provides a good framework for the operation in that direction of signing and at all working on international contracts. On the other hand, this bill leaves the state a flexible space for negotiations in international and legal matters because the government, in accordance with Article 8 of this proposal, the minister spoke of it, can authorise a delegation that negotiates that certain segments of the contract can be applied temporarily until its entry into force. So, extremely peopleally speaking, in order to dissipate citizens who are actually looking at what this is about, the government has the possibility that through its delegations negotiating various international and legal matters, it is flexible and yet responsible. The delegation is obliged to submit a report to the government after the negotiations have been concluded, and the government gives power to sign an international contract to a particular person. We have further in this bill a whole series of technical members and I would not take up much of this time for you, as it is a type-member, I would just say that what is particularly important and defined by Article 19 of this bill is that the provisions of this law "apply to the process of closing international agreements at diplomatic conferences and mixed intergovernmental bodies, as well as when the accession of the Republic of Serbia concluded by multilateral international contracts". This means that the Republic of Serbia, according to this legislative proposal, will have a regulated area. Wherever our delegation goes and whatever it negotiates, it will not be possible to improvise, but it will have to stick to the normative framework set out in this bill. This bill further defines the execution and termination of international contracts, which is correctly defined again and falls within these technical members, which should not be too detailed and I would not take the time to do so. In the final wording of this bill, I would say that this bill represents a precise instrument for foreign policy management. Finally, I will use one final metaphor – foreign policy is often like surgical intervention, complicated and sensitive, and should be subtle and have real instruments. One such instrument is this bill, which I hope will serve its purpose, the conduct of a serious foreign policy and the conclusion of better international agreements per state of Serbia, according to our country, and therefore the SDPS in the voting day will support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14591	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14592	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, the honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have for a long time changed socio-political circumstances, and I see from that aspect the necessary adoption of this law. As for the New Serbia parliamentary group, I can say that the law itself is very clear, precise and consistent. Its provisions define the procedure itself by concluding international contracts, the process of confirming international contracts, only enforcement, but also the changes and termination of international contracts. Articles 3 and 4 prescribes the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to initiate the negotiation process as well as the conclusion of the contract, but what is the paper also represents the fact that other entities themselves, economic operators, but also various associations can propose some international contract and that international contract will be found on the basis of their proposal in the consideration of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Article 5 provides for the interaction of several ministries. I believe that, at the same time, by including more ministries, we come up with better solutions. Article 7(1) accurately and clearly defines the policy of the state and the behaviour of our state delegation in the course of the fact that there may be some unforeseen circumstances in the negotiations themselves. New Serbia's parliamentary group intervened with the amendment in Article 8. The bill, and only with one goal, to increase the control function of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In the mentioned article, we asked to specify that the government of the Republic of Serbia can only, in the agreed opinion of the committee responsible, authorise the state delegation to apply the agreement temporarily until its entry into force. Articles 9, 10 and 21 have established the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to designate a person who will sign the contract and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to take over the contract with his accompanying documentation. Article 14 precisely defines which international contracts are subject to ratification obligations by parliament and which do not. Here we have proposed that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be informed of those contracts that are not subject to ratification obligations. As regards the execution of international contracts, Article 25 states that the competent authorities are monitoring the realisation of these contracts, that the competent authorities are notifying the government, and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is monitoring the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Article 28 regulates the way in which a specific international contract ceases to apply. And here we've intervened with the amendment, because we think it's aimed at better informing the public. This amendment provides for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' obligation to publish in an adequate manner the fact that each individual contract is terminated. In all, we consider this bill more than concrete and clear. The New Serbia parliamentary group will support this law in a voting day, as we believe it makes it very clear that it is in charge of the foreign policy of the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14593	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14594	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the reasons for the adoption of this law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, since I will, in particular, refer to the amended circumstances since 1978, when the previous law was passed, you have also called for the 1969 Vienna Convention on Contract Law, as well as to the Convention on the Law of the State and International Organisations, which has in fact not yet entered into force. All in all, we wouldn't have any big objections to what you've stated in these reasons for lawmaking, we're aware that it's been more than 30 years since 1978, we're aware of how much the state has changed in these areas, and that's not a problem, the problem with this law is actually a lack of responsibility and a lack of control mechanism that would promote that responsibility. If you carefully read the law, especially those provisions relating to the execution of international contracts, you will realize that what I say is true and that is true, and when you have no responsibility and you have no control over the execution of international contracts, in which case you have one problem. Is this about a law that really aims to be implemented, and does this law really have the right essence that you describe in your reasoning? And the question is, do you actually create any parallel worlds? One world that shows itself is one whole another, which represents the true essence of that life that we live in Serbia today. I ask this question for this very reason, because we witness daily that on the one hand, we have the picture you give us, and on the other hand we have one background of that picture that's blacked out or that's kind of misread. You have some action and some of the actions you're describing in one way, and in fact, it's just that all these actions are just some alibis for some other substance that's hidden in the background. That is why it is possible that we actually have one judiciary, and that this judiciary is assumed to be the work of some survey committees, some working groups, and that is why it may happen to us that, instead of the prosecution and the courts, to establish criminal responsibility and to find those who have committed these serious crimes, the murder of journalists is done by some polling committee. And that's a big problem. You're building a parallel institution this way. Is this, Mr. Minister, really acceptable and possible in one state that has the ambition to be a legal state? On the one hand, you have health care, Ministry of Health. You have the opportunity to treat the citizens of Serbia and then suddenly we see that this health care is not working, health insurance is not working, but donations are needed to treat our children, children of Serbian citizens. That's the problem. So we move treatment from the health framework, from the Health Insurance Fund to some domain of donations, sponsorship, solidarity, goodwill, generosity and humanity, which we are not against, but simply cannot dominate this kind of financing of treatment, especially the children of this Serbia. On the one hand, you have the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So you have a place to create and implement that foreign policy. You have a parliament, you have a government. So you have a framed institution that deals with foreign affairs, and on the other hand, the president of the state shares a great deal. He also shared more than 250 medals with some of the certified dictators.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14595	Please, Mrs. Popovic. I think you're aware that you're off the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14596	I'm just giving you an example of how parallel worlds are being made in Serbia. One of these fictions includes this bill, which has one circular flaw – a lack of responsibility that would be incorporated into the text of the law and a lack of control mechanism to control the implementation of international contracts. You know why this is necessary, Mr. Chairman? Because this country, whenever it did not know how to avoid domestic regulations, whenever it intended to play domestic regulations and had a certain political will or ambition, in which case it raised those jobs to the level of an international contract. That's how the NIS was sold for a dirty low price. In this way, a mine rent has been established which is rudely low by 3%, and you have no such example in Europe either. That's what Mr. Chairman is about. It is an international contract, which is currently existing and which makes this country have huge deficits, including in its budget. International agreements obviously serve in Serbia as some kind of alibi for some political will whose essence is to hide for this very reason, because this way of policymaking is being built and this way of ousting the political will of the majority, those who exercise power, simply to carry out what is in their interest, what brings them political points, not thinking about the consequences, especially the adverse consequences suffered by this country and citizens. When discussing international contracts is very important to ask the question of what is the role of parliament? Is parliament just one flow water heater through which these proposals for international contracts go through, these laws on international contracts, or is parliament in fact a fundamental factor, an active factor in creating these contracts, in implementing those contracts, in controlling the implementation of these contracts? So far, we have not been able to get the impression that Parliament really has some serious role to play, especially in the control of the execution of these contracts. With these three members in the bill, I still do not see that there has been any thought at all about strengthening Parliament's role in implementing international contracts. It is not enough to predict that the Assembly is also reporting on the execution of international contracts, it is very important to inform the MPs. It is the MPs who are able to put down certain objections, which can control whether the international treaty is actually being carried out, how it is done, and how good is the will in that international treaty, when it comes to realisation? Therefore, none of these laws that comes to parliament can be viewed as just one single law, just textually. Each of these laws has its own political background, each of them has certain objectives, and often neither this political background nor that goal is sufficiently illuminated, because that is the case, we would not be in such an economic, institutional, economic and all the other crises that are affecting us. Perhaps you should consider that when you propose such laws, you should also say that you have proposed this law since you had no other business, since you do not want anything else to do, that you have no intention of changing something quality, positive and useful in this Serbia. That's why you're referring to the 1978 law and you say -- there's some out-of-date institutes, and these institutes have to change, to make it modern. This calls for conventions that also date back over twenty years, one from 1969 and the other from 1978. We're not MPs to that extent naive, we're not to that extent ready to just lightly accept these proposals of yours. We always put it in context and always study each one of these laws well. A lot of what you obviously want to hide, a lot of what you put aside, and what you show doesn't usually correspond to the truth. So, a little more responsibility, a little more honesty, a little more transparency in your policy, and in that case we can talk about how and how to help an opposition party like LDP. We're always ready for co-operation and we're always ready to do whatever it takes to at least run that path out of this general crisis that we're in. Unfortunately, we do not find co-operation, we do not find any good will to raise this co-operation to some level. Your actions do not give us hope that something more significant will change in that sense. Today we are talking in parliament about this set of laws and yesterday we spoke last week. There were a lot of literary compositions and there were a lot of words about how to help children, how to help people with disabilities, how to help young people and how to do all this but somehow you always put aside that crisis that Serbia is in and how Serbia really thinks it is doing all your good will and all your good stories.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14597	I just need one comment. Please, in the future, when you speak of any law, speak for yourself and for your MP group, not to make all MPs naive and that it is only so that everyone else will easily accept the law. Please take care of the dictionary. You have the right to give your opinion, but in that sense I ask you to say it on your behalf and on behalf of your parliamentary group. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14598	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'll talk about the agenda. As for the agreement, i.e. the bill on confirming the agreement on police co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I think the only lack of all this was to be concluded earlier. It is irrelevant which party was the initiator of the conclusion of this agreement. We see that in this case it was the Republic of Slovenia, but I think that given the degree of corruption and crime and organised crime and that Serbia, unfortunately, is a black hole along the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, Macedonia and Bulgaria, is a black Balkan hole in organised crime. I think that this is why Serbia should have been the initiator of adopting such an agreement, and on the other hand, because it is a geographically important transit area for trade and narcotics and white slavery and organised crime. But, well, somehow these people from these areas who were involved in organised crime and who until a few years ago were declared great Serbian patriots, at the moment the state decided to deal with them and process them, it was seen that most of them, regardless of being shown to the public as great enemies of Croats, great Serbs, etc., also had Croatian, Bosnian, Bulgarian passports, etc., which showed that this process of integration after the deleveraging of the former Yugoslavia, unfortunately began primarily from criminals. They're preceding the creation of some new economic community, but a community that would operate beyond the law. We believe that the space of the former Yugoslavia will work even more closely in the future, but on some other grounds, since, unfortunately, neither Croats nor Serbia dominated in 1990, they did not understand what is happening in Europe and the world and what are trends in the future. For this reason, Slovenia has also launched the first process of deleveraging in order to join together later, but on some other grounds also in some other alliances. Because of the fact that everything that regulates this agreement, from drug trafficking of high-tech crime, from trafficking in white slavery, from fighting organised crime, and because this type of crime knows no certain limit, a certain area, because they co-operate very well, then the state itself cannot be lonely in this fight, but it takes very close and intense international co-operation and just the results of such co-operation have conditioned that the most organised criminal clan, which deals with drug trafficking in these areas, is to confiscate the largest amount of narcotics, but also to be accounted for to a large extent with the largest criminal clan in the history of the Balkans that existed and operated in Zemun and Surcin. Therefore, the SPO and DHSS will not deal with demagogy when approaching this problem. We're not going to talk about anyone here fogging reality and that we're some kind of flow water heater that, by inert or by assignment, raises his hands and votes for these laws. We will, above all, vote for this agreement because it is the security and the state, the security of every citizen and the purification of the state with the help of other countries, from crime, which not only burdens our space, but also burdens countries in the region. I'll talk about the agenda again. We will also vote in favour of agreements between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia and Israel and improving the paid jobs of members of the family of staff of diplomatic and consular representations, because of course we are fully in agreement with what the law regulates and, of course, if we care to preserve the families of diplomatic and consular representatives, then these agreements are also needed. What is our observation, given how many diplomatic and consular representations we see that, unfortunately, with most countries, we have not yet concluded these agreements. It's another proposal from our parliamentary group to launch a diplomatic initiative on our part. I believe many are in progress. I know that some negotiations are being held to conclude with all the countries with which we have diplomatic and consular co-operation. As regards the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, this is, in its entirety, a general technical law. It cannot be different, because it regulates not only the process of initiating the conclusion of international contracts, the composition of delegations, the way in which negotiations are held, the validation and ratification of international contracts that become an integral part of our legal order, but also the way in which international contracts are executed. What is from the point of view of us as political parties who see our country as a member of the EU, regardless of what we are declaring and we are nationalists, right-wing parties, nationalism, enlightened nationalism should primarily mean the conclusion, among other things, and of all kinds of contracts that will affect the economic security and strengthening of the country's strength, which will improve our country's foreign-political protection, the conclusion of trade agreements that are of interest to our country, the establishment of better relations primarily with neighbours, but also with other countries, not only EU members, and it is not whatever agreement you will conclude on air navigation and trade agreement, what financial agreement you will conclude, what will be the interest rate, etc. We, as MPs, almost every session, have one of these agreements, and when we compare agreements, we can see that every country's wishes are to conclude a better international agreement, but we almost had agreements that we have concluded in the area of economic co-operation with different countries and we have seen different interest rates and different conditions, which is, of course, face and negotiating power, but also a reflection of our economic capacity, but also those conditions that other countries offer. On behalf of our parliamentary group, I wanted to say that, in addition to these bilateral and multilateral international agreements, I don't think we should be forgotten, and I think yesterday's Brussels negotiations remind us, that unfortunately or meet all the states, and may be a dominant happiness, regardless of what is often sought in this populist patriotic demagogy point to total sovereignty, total independence, yet the modern states of the modern world are limited sovereignty. It is precisely because of this need for international legal co-operation, because of the need to install these agreements in our legal order, to install international agreements into our legal order, and we have repeatedly, especially in the period until 2000, pointed to the history of many, above all, peace conferences, which are not fully regulated by this law, but are of historical importance to the fate of our country. We were never, not just us, but all the countries of this size, sovereign and independent in deciding our future after the end of the wars. That was the case with the London Agreement after the end of the First Balkan War and the Bucharest Agreement after the end of the Second Balkan War and the Paris Agreement following the end of World War I. The great forces had an interest in controlling Adolf Hitler in 1938, above all I think of the United Kingdom and France, when Hitler was granted the Sudetic Area where the Germans mostly live, to deter him from the war. The only one who was against the Munich Agreement at the time was Churchill. Unfortunately, he was right, he was lonely. We haven't had in this black period our recent history the situation that many who have seen beyond others have been lonely in the assessment that we, and there have been many peace conferences in the 90s and here with each of the next peace conferences because of our start-up poor negotiating position and because we haven't sufficiently reflected international circumstances and international policies that reflect our country's status as well. Unfortunately, they were lonely. What SPO and DHSS expect in the future, not only of this, but of all future governments, is that, in the conclusion of each international agreement, they fully objectively, soberly analyse international and legal circumstances in the conclusion of international legal agreements and ratifications here in the Assembly, and that this kind of demagogue patriotism, which cost Serbia the most, is our past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14599	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14600	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, let's get some liveliness and blood into this debate, because that's what the elements are for. Of the four points of the agenda that are united here, we will actually deal with here only once, which deserves detailed analysis and discussion, which is this law on the conclusion and execution of international contracts. What's even good here is that it's changing the applicable law that's been in force for almost 34 years, more than one third of the century. What I find alarming is the information I received from a valid place, that the services of the competent ministry, for five years, have worked to make these 30 members of the law that is before us. Believe me, and you, Mr Selakovic, as minister of justice and a kind of lawyer, surely know that the result that lies ahead is absolutely not an adequate effort, if it is true that five years have been spent to obtain this text. So, this text, what's new? As you yourself said in your opening statement, the novels of this text, in relation to the existing solution, refer to the harmonisation of standards with the current internal legal situation, i.e. We no longer have SFRY, we have the Republic of Serbia which is a successor to the SFRY, the termologically this law had to be in line with the present moment, and certain changes in the field of international contract policy had to find their place in this law. But nothing fundamentally changed this law unless it changed something in a few places to the harm of our legal-political system and what I would call a good reading for the teaching of international public law in those colleges that study the subject, such as political sciences, the legal fact, economics, etc. So two groups of critics are here when it comes to this law. The first are the criticisms, the most on them, those are the criticisms concerning the general approach of the law, certain general places, where the path that goes along with this law, the way the law looks at matter, so that it simply doesn't make amendments either. It's a question of the philosophy of the law. There is another group of remarks that are extremely concrete, where we have come up with a number of amendments, within which we have made a few remarks that simply want to supplement this law, because they think something has been missed here. Now I'll be free to expose this to you from the beginning to the end. The first fundamental objection to this law is that he doesn't know the typeology of the contract. The basic typeology of the contract in this law comes down to the key division, i.e. the international talks to be confirmed in the National Assembly and international agreements not confirmed in the National Assembly. Anything else that is mentioned here in some bracket, in some member of the law, describing the potential content of these contracts, serves only this purpose, in order to divide the contracts into these two groups and there is no other kind of division. The fact that there is no division in this law that the law sees, which it recognises essentially, gives rise to new consequences when it comes to the content of the law itself. Namely, there are international law contracts that are one-time per application, bilateral by content, according to the number of parties. There are multilateral agreements, there are special multilateral agreements, they can still be divided into conventions, they can be divided into specific agreements. We do not distinguish, let's say, from this law, there is no difference anywhere in international public law that even those fineses exist in differences between agreements which, let's say, the English language knows, we only stay on the EU, which is so close to you and which you love so much, that, let's say, the SAA is called the word Agreement, and that, let's say, the Lisbon Agreement is not called an Agreement at all, but a Treaty. Therefore, there is no need in the practice of international public law for so many different names to be given to documents, unless the difference in names is sometimes, and that is not a small number of cases, it also does not withdraw certain consequences regarding the content of these contracts and their nature. If so, this results in a very logical conclusion. In order to have a modern law ahead of us, he would have to recognize at least a few types of contracts based on which there would be at least a difference in finesse, when it comes to the procedure of concluding and confirming international agreements. Unfortunately, it's not here. This remark that's extremely principled, which I've given you, which I don't think is weak at all, it can't be corrected by amendments. So there is no parliamentary club that can make such remarks to amendments to the existing law go beyond that. So this observation requires, if taken seriously, the need to change this law, whether it be passed in the future by a new one or to go with more massive changes and additions to this law. If I wasn't clear to the end what I'm talking about, I'm going to give you a very specific example of contract typeology and certain finesse or differences in the arrangement, when it comes to how to conclude or apply that agreement. These are contracts with economic content, so-called financial international contracts. You have countries in the environment that have special provisions in the law that treat such contracts, such as the case with Croatia. I don't need to tell you that borrowing in Serbia has become one of the main instruments of economic policy in the past few years. You will see that if you look at the Public Debt Administration's data, only last year has Serbia paid 429.5 million dinars of commissions to be granted, rather than withdrawing funds based on loans. Among these loans is a small number of those approved, there are also those approved five years ago, and they are not yet realised because we have not prepared the projects. I want to tell you that one state in the phase of this economic policy is simply amazing that the law on the conclusion and validation of international contracts does not know this kind of specificity. Now that we're making an amendment to it, it's just one crazy job. Nor do we have the capacity in the technical sense to do this, that capacity has the government and their services, which five years should have done this text. So we have in everyday practice, why should we be precise enough when it comes to these things? Because in everyday practice, today's, we have, slightly speaking, one chaos in the concept of international contracts when it comes to the role of our country in international contracts. I'm going to remind you of something that isn't actually an international contract, and it produces effects in the foreign-political sense, despite the fact that it's not a content international contract. You have the so-called The Istanbul declaration, signed by former president Boris Tadic, with Abdullah Gul, Turkey's president, and signed Haris Jojdzic, on the third hand, in front of the BiH presidency. This Istanbul Declaration, as an act of good will by the parties, contains certain norms, for whose nature we do not know what it is, needs a consulate to gather and decide what is the legal nature of what is signed there. It says, among other things, that we as Serbia support Bosnia and Herzegovina's territorial integrity, and in the same Istanbul declaration there is not a single word on the territorial integrity of the Serbian state, which is clearly at risk. Why did I mention this contract? Because he's not a contract, he's a statement, a statement of will, but whose? Those representatives of the countries representing those countries under the constitution of those countries. On whose orders did Boris Tadic do this, under whose authority, in what capacity, in what constitutional capacity, etc? That is definitely not a binding international act, legally speaking. But, ladies and gentlemen, he produces certain foreign policy, even unwanted facts. Why did I mention this to you? Because in some legal texts, thanks to the situation and the chaos that we are in, which the political elite of this country has produced over the past years, it is simply necessary to define something. You know very well, as a lawyer, that life writes laws. The countries that write a straight bill, and have no problems applying it, means they have not faced such daily problems. We who face such problems have an obligation to define the right things. The president of the state here doesn't even have any automatic powers to conclude any international contracts. He may, however, be authorised by the government, but these are government contracts under this law, which is also proposed under the applicable law. Furthermore, we also have these famous agreements Stefanovic – Tahiri. I'm sorry Mr. Stefanovic isn't here. These agreements are by no means international agreements. They concern talks on Serbia's internal political issues. But in order to be applied, someone remembered to bring regulations to the government on this, so that the regulations that are fully anti-constitutional put into legal traffic. That is why there is a procedure before the Constitutional Court, for which the DSS parliamentary group and some other MPs in parliament have submitted a proposal for an assessment of the constitutionality of those regulations. I don't know what the Constitutional Court is doing, but I hope that at some point they will decide on it, with all these delays and the discredition of the motionary himself. So, this law has some other shortcomings that are not so much related to the nature of the law itself and its basic direction, but concerns certain concrete solutions in the law, and there are a few objections that are crucial to us. As we have this fundamental flaw that we do not have a elaborate typeology, so comes a number of other concrete faults of the bill itself, which relys on some old solutions that are definitely overcome, where the international agreements that serve in the basis of this law, such as, say, the Vienna Convention under contract law, are misread. Certain assumptions for the procedure of conclusion, confirmation and enforcement of international agreements are included here in the law, but we must start from the assumption that there are potentially types of agreements, which are not envisaged here, whose development does not find its place in this law, and we think that such a thing should be here, because our positive right already knows it. What is the nature of the resolution or the declaration or decision made by the National Assembly? What's their nature? Declaratory, when they only confirm something, but when something is ordered by the National Assembly, it is a binding legal standard. The assembly ordered that in the event of someone being remembered that Serbia, which is an authorised initiator, should be a member or join an existing military alliance, the decision of this same National Assembly had partially indicated the procedure to join such an alliance, previously declaring military neutrality. The military neutrality declared by the National Assembly can only be brought down by a national referendum, and if someone has an initiative for Serbia to join any military alliance, it must previously go to a referendum in order to initiate all these stages of the procedure that you have foreseen here, which some of my colleagues read so joyfully, which I think is extremely unnecessary. So it's not disputed in this law. We have therefore given an amendment indicating which procedure should be applied if the Government submits an initiative to join any military alliance and a referendum procedure has been incorporated. It is our duty to put such a provision into this law. I think you, Mr. Minister, realize that such an obligation exists. Something that has no prior obligation to the Assembly decisions, and we think it should, but we have not given such an amendment, it is certainly also to think about a special procedure for entering special contracts, such as Serbia's EU membership agreement. So there is also a need to respond to the referendum procedure. Then somewhere in this law you have plenty of places where there are some grammatical and stylish errors, which we have pointed to with the last amendment, but most interesting than all the mistakes in this law, which is neither stylish nor grammatical, which I am going to hold on to once again, is this famous provisional application of the contract. You are here to provide for contracts, which would otherwise be confirmed in the National Assembly, to be applied temporarily. Based on what you found, it's not controversial, you didn't have to write it explicitly, in the Vienna Convention, which provides for it in Article 25. It is the Vienna Convention on International Contracts and a member of the 25th Stabilizes the possibility. The problem is that all the signatories of the Vienna Convention do not have the same legal problem or the same legal status when it comes to the internal law of those countries and the way they view the conclusion and confirmation of international contracts. Mr. Minister, our country has one of the simplest procedures to confirm international contracts. The international contract may be signed this morning and, if necessary, a session of the National Assembly may be convened during the afternoon and an international contract in the National Assembly can be confirmed, which would be published in the Official Messenger during the evening or tomorrow morning. So, what is the essential reason for staying in such a provision? She doesn't have room here. You can now tell me the different situations in life in which the application of the agreement is possible, but then whatever you tell me, I will answer it with a question – if that is true, can financial agreements happen, i.e. credit arrangements, loans the state withdraws, produce facts prior to confirmation in the National Assembly? Let me see that people's assembly that won't confirm that agreement afterwards. These are things that, in my opinion, are inadmissible here. It's just that we can't go after the team. Furthermore, in the light of the bill's proposal, when you talk about this member who provides for the possibility of provisional application of the agreement, look at the good reasoning of the law, you mention the role of the National Assembly's committee in giving prior consent to this procedure. There is no such thing in this law. You know why? Because this argument, in these five years of hard work on this text of the law, has been prescribed from the old reasoning of the old law of 1978. That's why. Because why would there be a reason to tell a story about something that has nothing to say in the very text of the law? So you do not foresee any role of parliament in determining temporary application. That's what you did. As far as the provision itself is concerned, such a provision was put out of effect at the time of the SFRY Constitutional Court decision. In essence, in the legal, essential sense of the word, none of this Constitutional Court decision has changed to this day in order for the provision to be rewritten, and the Constitutional Court of the SFRY was certainly in line with the 1972 Vienna Convention. There's one more question, and for now I'm going to end it, and if there's anything I need to supplement, I'm going to report in the second part of the debate. So what happens to non-confirmed contracts? It's also an anachron provision. You say these contracts, read a good article 20, paraphrases, don't usually get published, but they might be published if necessary. That's the opposite of Article 51. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 196. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 51 speaks about the public of state authorities and the right to notification, and Article 196 on the publication of laws and any other general acts. So, by affirming secret agreements, we affirm agreements such as the police agreement in border crossings with Eulex, which is definitely a secret agreement, because no MP of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has received it to this day. We affirm agreements that King Milan once had with Austro-Hungarian, who in 1882 accepted a secret convention with the last benefits in trade and the economy of co-operation with Austro-Hungarian to obtain personal affirmation and support in the circles of this empire and that later in 1887 this convention would be supplemented and the statement that Austria would protect the Obrenović Dynasty in every respect. Any coincidence with today's moment is intentional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14601	The word has the People's Messenger Miroljub Stojcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14602	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, respected Minister Selakovic, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, will begin at the beginning to say that the SPS parliamentary group will support the Law on the conclusion and execution of international contracts not only because the law still in force until the adoption of this law in the SFRY in 1978, when a number of current MPs may not have been born or been minorly completed in 1989, but because it imposes its necessity within all reforms undertaken by this government and this parliament, where it aims to regulate and secure its international position on the basis of the Constitution and relations with other states and international organisations. It is inevitable that such an area should be regulated and aligned with the development of modern law, given that certain changes have occurred over such a long period of time, as you said, Mr. Minister. It is a good thing this law very precisely defines all the details relating to the conclusion and execution of international contracts. First of all, what is an international contract concluded by the Republic of Serbia? What are the procedures for concluding an international contract? What is the procedure for concluding international contracts? What are the special provisions? How are international contracts executed, and how are they modified, and when the international treaty ceases to apply? Article 2 of this law defines the concept of an international contract in which it can be concluded with one or more states, or international organisations, but regulated by international law. As for the procedures for the conduct of negotiations and the conclusion of the contract, it is seen that this is being initiated by the government, but it has also given the possibility for the authorities of the state administration from their own work to initiate and propose to the Government the conclusion of the contract. It is good that Article 4 is given the possibility that the initiative to initiate the procedure and conduct negotiations can also be given by other state bodies, economic operators which seem to me, at this point, the law is the most necessary, as well as associations, but clearly defined through a state body in which the work is mainly divided and includes issues of international contracts. In this way and in this article, me and my colleague, Djordje Milicevic, have tabled an amendment because we believe that local self-government can also give an initiative to launch and conduct negotiations and conclude contracts, because this is in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government where local self-government units have the right to establish co-operation and conclude co-operation agreements with other and relevant territorial units and communities of local self-government of other countries. In particular, it should also be borne in mind that almost every single unit of local self-government is incorporated into one or more euro-region, where certain projects are defined through a borderline character and where the Government of the Republic of Serbia or a certain body of state administration and offices will have to be included and regulated in the content of these contracts. The further text of the law makes it clear who submits proposals for the initiation of proceedings and that it is the authority of the state administration in which the issues to be regulated are part of. Article 5(2) defines the content of the proposal in all aspects, but it is the Government which determines the basis for negotiating and negotiating delegations, as well as that the Head of Delegation can sign contracts, which states that this law provides for the possibility of effective and rapid negotiation, but also the possibility of delaying negotiations until new positions are established. In the further text of this law, the following steps have been defined in this area after the agreement has been agreed and who gives the authority to sign the contract, or the foreign minister appointed by the government. The third part of this law provides for the procedure for the confirmation of international contracts, which clearly defines the preparation of the law on the confirmation of international contracts, the law on the confirmation of international contracts, the launch of the procedure for the confirmation of international contracts, the validation of international contracts, the instruments of confirmation and the publication of the law on certification. As far as this part of the law is concerned, I believe it's in Article 14 where it's defined in paragraph 1. – The National Assembly confirms international contracts, military, political and economic nature, contracts that create financial commitments for the Republic of Serbia, contracts that require the adoption of new or amendments to existing laws and contracts which are deviating from existing solutions. It should be extended to define that the National Assembly can also confirm international contracts in the fields of security, science, education, culture and sports. For this reason, I have submitted an amendment, and I expect that the Proposer will accept this amendment, because it should be borne in mind that this law will probably take more than 35 years or at least as long as it was before, and in that time, it will certainly create the needs for the conclusion of international contracts that should define certain issues from these areas as well. For example, certain scientific research in the area of two or more states, the possibility of education in two or more states, cooperation in the area of culture in several countries, the organisation of sports championships on the territory of two or more states, if we have experience that last year's European football championship was organised in Ukraine and Poland, should probably be kept in mind that this can happen here in our areas. What is also good in this law is that it is clearly defined and responsible for the enforcement of international contracts, i.e. what are the rules, who care about the execution of international contracts and who accepts amendments and complement technical regulations. I also want to point out in the end that it is a good thing that such a law defines the level of responsibility for the execution of international contracts. So it is envisaged that the competent authorities of the state administration should monitor the execution of international contracts, inform the government, as well as the government's obligation to notify the National Assembly. Finally, I would like to point out once again that the SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this law, and I will always be pleased, and I trust you fellow Members to vote in favour of new international agreements that define the development of the Republic of Serbia. I would also like to point out that the SPS parliamentary group in the voting day will vote in favour of the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on dealing with the paid jobs of family members, staff of diplomatic and consular representations, a bill confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the State of Israel on the employment of members of the family of diplomatic or consular staff, as well as a draft law on the validation of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Slovenia on police co-operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14603	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14604	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that we had to schedule a meeting of the Parliament Club because we as DS are no longer able to determine parliamentary work, when and how many hours it takes, but I am an authorised promoter, so I would like to say something about today's law. Mr. Selakovic, I greatly appreciate your enthusiasm, your elan, your hard work, your legal knowledge and what you do as a minister of justice, but precisely because of this undisputed legal knowledge, don't let yourself be "a girl for all", of this government. Do not come to defend those laws that are indefensible to the MPs, especially the MPs of the opposition. Don't come here to defend those laws, however explained by the Foreign Ministry, that the previous law is over 30 years old, that it was signed by Joseph Broz Tito. I mean, when someone says that they've worked five years to prepare this bill and then they deliver a bill like this that needs to be declared by the National Assembly, that there's something wrong, especially, that no public debate is left. Do not underestimate the legal knowledge and expertise of the opposition people. Well, I guess people from the DSS, LDP and DS, but also from other parties would have to make some remarks, meaningful objections, to this law, not to intervene with such a small number of members, such a large number of amendments. I'll try to tell you why this is a one-time law and why this law will only last as long as this government does. First, several times, my colleagues from other parties, from the DS, prayed to some Committee on Law, some service dealing with the lecturing of the law, so that you no longer provide illiterate laws. If we have not submitted the amendment and colleagues from DS, DSS, LDP and NS a hundred times, it is not said that Serbia is concluding agreements and agreements in writing, but in writing. We've absorbed that many times. I think that's what you learn in second grade primary school. Have them report nicely to the teacher and ask the teacher to pay them back because she didn't teach them anything. Say, I'm sorry, we haven't learned anything, we don't know the difference between "written" and "written", we're criticised by the opposition. Let's once agree that there's a zero point here, when we're going to cut off and not deliver any more of these proposals to the Serbian Parliament. When we speak specifically of the other ranges of this law, I will go in order. I'd ask the illiterate to listen to us in writing. So, the initiative... (Marian Risticevic, from the scene: This is from "Nambia" maybe? )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14605	I ask the People's MPs not to receive it from the scene.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14606	You know, when someone says "Nambia," that's not the problem. The bigger the problem, and the same has to do with international agreements. "Nambia," someone who deals with politics and makes a lapus, that's fine, but when the president of the Republic says he's going to beatify the living Pope, and that has something to do with international relations... (President: Mr. Milivoevich please return to the topic. It's a scandal of unprecedented proportions. I guess Papi gave that book "Vatican, the main satanic nest", with everything signed, since he's the identity of that book. So I'm going to go to Article 4. The initiative to initiate the negotiation process and conclude an international contract may also be given by other state bodies, economic operators or associations via the State Administration, whose work mainly includes issues covered by the international contract. I absolutely support the SPS amendment, that local self-government, in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government, can make certain proposals. I think it is a good amendment that they have submitted to this law, I think it is a meaningful amendment, because the Law on Local Self-Government says that units of local self-government have the right to establish co-operation and conclude co-operation agreements with relevant territorial communities, units of local self-government from foreign states, with respect for territorial unity and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the Constitution and the law. When we look further at the Law, in the same article, in Article 4, in paragraph 3, it says – if the authority of the State Administration of Article 2 of this Article considers that no initiative should be adopted, it will inform the Government and the applicant of the initiative. It would be good to have some explanation, why isn't it accepted, why isn't it good, I guess it's some kind of democratic way of communicating? They say, "I'm sorry, we're refusing something, but we're turning it down for that and that." We're refusing for reasons because he's the applicant of the DS initiative. We accept, maybe it's a good explanation, but it's still an explanation, or maybe it's a bad explanation, but it's still an explanation. Of course, several members of this law are very controversial to me, and the most controversial, Mr. Risticevic, if you want a cigarette break, feel free to come out, you don't have to gesture towards me, I really don't have any problems. (President: Mr. Milivoevich, I ask you not to speak to the People's Messenger. ) Therefore, the most controversial member of the 8th law, which says that the government can extremely authorise the delegation of the Republic of Serbia to accept that an international contract that is confirmed in general or in particular of its provisions, can be applied temporarily until its entry into force. The approval procedure for this international contract must be initiated within 30 days from the date of its signature. The temporary application of the contract shall cease if the Republic of Serbia decides not to become a party to the international contract and when it informs the other parties to the contract, including the temporary application of the contract, etc. So, what's the main problem? The main problem here is the following, for these illiterates, the government takes over the National Assembly's authority and I'm glad the illiterates recognize and report themselves. So the government takes over the National Assembly's authority and it's called a "state coup" in developed democratic states. The government cannot decide and take over the responsibilities of the National Assembly, it is a very dangerous precedent, poor precedent, especially since Mr Milos Aligrudic, using his excellent legal knowledge, explained how quickly in Serbia an international agreement can be brought before MPs of the National Assembly and how quickly an international agreement can be ratified in this National Assembly. I think you should and should consider whether this member of the law is good or bad, to think about what that means, what legal conventions can produce, what kind of political coincidences can produce. I think it would be better if this entire member were deleted, if you had no intention of withdrawing the law and I think it would be good if these precedents were no longer in the work of the National Assembly. You know, there's one contradiction in this law itself. If you read the reasoning of the law, it says that the government will obtain the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's competent committee, but this Article 8, at least for us in writing, does not say anything. Maybe for you geniuses, who know about stealth technology. You may have written it with some stealth technology, but we ordinary mortals don't see it. So I think you've made a really dangerous precedent here and you've done something that democratic practice has never had in Serbia before and has never met before. So here you have a situation to legalise the practice of the existence of an agreement with the interim member of the 8th and at the same time, you have a number of other negative effects that my colleague Aligrudic also spoke of very well. In Article 10 of this Act, you are given, or you are giving yourself a 30-day deadline, when this international contract is signed, that it be delivered to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs within 30 days. Why is this department the only one in charge of foreign affairs? Perhaps some other ministries should, if the contract applies to other areas and segments of life. Why such a 30-day deadline? Is that how long it takes to translate? Or take the orbit of gum and chew it all, like now? No, it takes three days, and in three days you can send it to the ministry. The Liberal Democratic Party has submitted the amendment for three days, the DSS for 15 days, and I think these are also very meaningful amendments, which do so much repair the law. We have a few more serious problems when it comes to this law and they are, above all, in Article 20. Article 20 of this law states that "the government, on a proposal from the competent state authority of the state administration, may decide to publish an international contract under Article 14(2) of this law and a special international contract provided for in Article 19 of this Act in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", but the publication of international contracts under Article 2 of the Old Ministry of Foreign Affairs is published." Does that mean any contract can be unpublished? Does this mean that Article 196 does not apply? The Constitution? Or Article 51. The constitution, which says Serbian citizens have the right to be informed? I know that party representatives who have not even put the Kuman Agreement in the process should not expect them to behave better now, but I think that's bad. I think it's bad that some member of the law is hiding from the citizens. I have one big remark when it comes to Article 25. What are you and we Members of the People? We're the ones who control the government. Whether some of you may or may not, even if I see you, that any of you will ever ask the government, and especially the ministers of your party, would not establish parliamentary control of the government's work, but to see which of you MPs of the ruling coalition will ask any minister – excuse me, how are these contracts being carried out? As MPs, I suppose we have the right to see what the effects and reach of that agreement are? I guess we control the government, don't we? You're still in the Resistance? I'll be in the Resistance while I'm alive, because of people like you. And I'll be proud of it. I must tell you, you must have the courage to control the government. Seeing as how much you don't understand, I still have to commend you, because it's a good thing you've gone from confrontation policy to all the progressive countries in the world to cooperation policy after all. Because this law tells us that you are still changing, that you want to cooperate with the world, that you will not go to Brussels through Karlobag, but through Horgos. It's a good thing you see your delusions now, but the price of your delusions is being paid by us, the citizens of Serbia. Can this law serve another very unpleasant question for you – how do you conduct foreign policy? Did what Ivica Dacic and Aleksandar Vukic promised in Brussels in English, can Tomislav Nikolic... (President: Mr. Milivoevich, I ask you to return to the topic. ) And you, in Serbian, to the citizens of Serbia. So, let's resume. You have a bad law – unsuspecting, illiterate, quickly brought in, though the reasons for its adoption were strong. You did not bring him in with consultations with opposition parties, you did not open a public debate. There are a dozen committees here who have been able to discuss the quality of this law. I don't know that this bill was found on some very important committees that would have anything to say about it. I say again, it is a good thing that international co-operation policies are in place. It's a good thing that conflicts are no longer solved by rusty spoons and burning foreign embassies, and then in the heats of these embassies, they're looking for sparks that will light fuses at the heart of someone's powder keg policy. But it is good that laws are passed that will regulate international co-operation. It's a good thing you decided to watch as the embassies burn instead of the stage, run to shake hands with these ambassadors, regardless of the short period of time that has passed between those two periods. Do you have any pain in the past? It would hurt me, too, if I was like that, believe me. Oh, I see you're in pain. But let's recap. Serbia needs such a law on the enforcement of international contracts. Serbia needs international contracts. Serbia needs co-operation with the world, especially when faced with the tragic consequences of the policy you have led, when faced with the tragic consequences of the isolation policy, wearing badges, short T-shirts when representatives of foreign embassies, statesmen, singing songs...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14607	Mr. Millyvoy, since I warned you twice, I give you a warning. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14608	I thank you. I'm very proud of this reminder, she's my favorite. I will certainly address the Constitutional Court to assess the justification of your mobbing on me and your attempt to obstruct me in my work and hope that this will not be the subject and some applications to some other competent institutions involved. I'm telling you, it's a good thing you put a badge through your jacket, it's not good that you put it through your heart, and it's a good thing you're passing a law like this, but it's bad, it doesn't show that you've improved.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14609	Thank you. Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14610	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, you could hear everything. I'm advertising a violation of article 107. A Rules of Procedure which says that it is not allowed to use offensive expressions. I'm going to try to explain what this offensive expression and the violation of the Rules of Procedure is all about. Here the previous speaker tried to divide the MPs not into good and bad, fair and dishonest, but written and illiterate. So he repeatedly addressed both MPs and the government saying that this bill was written illiterate, that those who supported him and who would vote for him were illiterate. I don't think he insulted us, who he spoke to, and it's forbidden, but he insulted his own party. I'm obliged to say that this bill was written by DS, so the former regime, and we just took it over, so if the law is illiterate and if it was written by illiterate people, it didn't offend us, it insulted its own members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14611	Thank you. I don't think I hurt a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14612	I'm not asking you to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14613	Thank you. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: Replica. I can't give you the right to a replica, since this was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the post: I use the time of the authorised promoter. You have no right now. You can end up when all the speakers are done or when it's your time to discuss it. The word has a folk MP, Irena Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14614	The President-in-Office, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament and the Honored Ministers and representatives of the Ministry, we are facing today's proposal for a law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts. As we have heard from previous speakers, a law that regulates the area of conclusion and enforcement of international contracts was passed more than 30 years ago. Since there has been a change in the state-level legal entity, state-run regulation and legal system, there is a need to pass a new law that will regulate this matter in accordance with new constitutional and legal solutions. The subject of the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts is also the regulation of the conclusion process and of other issues relating to international contracts. These other issues concern the entry into force of the contract, the termination of the international contracts, the placing and withdrawal of reserves and declarations. The procedure for the conclusion of international contracts does not differ significantly from the procedure provided for in the provisions of the applicable law. In particular, the negotiation process and the conclusion of international contracts shall be initiated by the Government on its own initiative or on a proposal from the competent authority of the state administration, in which the issues regulated by the contract are part. The law also regulates the circle of entities that can submit the initiative, as well as the procedure under the initiative. The law also regulates more precisely the content of the proposal, the basis for negotiating and the conclusion of international contracts, which is an act initiating the conclusion of the contract procedure. The law also provides for the possibility that the government, in exceptional cases, can also accept that the international agreement, which is subject to confirmation, is provisionally applied until its entry into force. If contracts are applied temporarily, the confirmation procedure must be initiated within 30 days of the signing of the contract. The law also regulates the process of confirming international contracts, the content of the certification law, and provides for the obligation to attach the opinion of the competent authorities to the draft certification law. It is very important to say that this law fulfils the obligation under Article 99 paragraph 4 of the Constitution by regulating which international contracts are confirmed by the National Assembly. In particular, this article found that the National Assembly confirms international agreements, military, political and economic nature, contracts that create financial commitments for the Republic of Serbia. Contracts requiring the adoption of new or amending existing rules and contracts which are deviating from existing legal solutions. Contracts which do not fall within those categories of international contracts shall be concluded in accordance with the envisaged procedure and shall not be subject to confirmation. The process of conclusion of international contracts at diplomatic conferences is in line with the application of these laws. The law also introduces a category of special international contracts, which are mainly concluded by the ministries. The law also provides that confirmation of a multilateral international contract can be authorised by the government, to accept amendments and additions to technical regulations adopted on the basis of international contracts, contracts of minor importance and technical character. The law also provides for the obligation of the competent authorities of the state administration to monitor the execution of international contracts, to inform the government and the government of the obligation to notify the National Assembly. This law regulates the termination of international contracts, so that international contracts cease to apply in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty itself and the rules of international law generally accepted. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of specific resources in the Republic's budget. The Serbian Progressive Party, or parliamentary club, will support the bill in the voting day. I would also like to say something about signing an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the same agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the State of Israel. Namely, the agreement is on the work of family members, staff of diplomatic consular offices. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was signed in Ljubljana in October 2012, and between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the State of Israel in November 2012. The purpose of the conclusion of such contracts is, above all, that these agreements on the employment of family members, staff of diplomatic consular offices between the two countries on a reciprocal basis, allow employment with compensation to members of the families of diplomatic and other staff according to the rules of the state of reception. To that end, the agreement sets out a circle of persons representing family members, persons of the diplomatic consular office. In a concrete agreement, family members make up a married and out-of-marriage spouse and children who meet the criteria for age and degree of education. For the last decade, the conclusion of this type of bilateral agreement has simply become a common international practice. In fact, many countries have noticed that the modern way of life leads to increasingly frequent occurrences that spouses, members of diplomatic consular offices, refuse to leave their jobs to follow their spouse abroad, and thus all of this has led the foreign ministries of these countries to address the problems of their employees and to initiate the conclusion of such contracts. The basis of the contract is to preserve the normal family life of diplomatic consular representatives and the integrity of their family. Namely, the effects of the work of diplomatic consular representatives acting in the conditions of the divided families are much smaller than those that function in the environment of good family opportunities. The second purpose of this agreement is to limit the privileges and immunities mentioned in the circle of persons in the scope of which they are related to the practice of paid activities, which would otherwise belong to them under the 1961 Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations and to the provisions of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations of April 1963. Namely, these persons will not enjoy immunity from civil and administrative proceedings in relation to all issues arising from such a fundamental working relationship that they would enjoy under these conventions. The agreement does not deny immunity from criminal justice enjoyed by family members under those conventions, but obliges the appointing state to seriously consider any written request submitted by the State for the refusal of this immunity. The process of hiring members of the family, staff of the diplomatic consular office in relation to the recruitment procedure of other foreigners under this Agreement, differs in that the State Ministry of Foreign Affairs protocol is accepted at the request of the diplomatic consular representation of the State of designation, following the procedure of issuing a prior authorisation for the employment of family members. Under this agreement, members of the family, staff of the diplomatic consular representative of the state of appointment, employees in the state of reception fall under the social security regime of the state of reception, and also in that country are obliged to pay all income taxes made on the basis of jobs carried out in accordance with the agreement. So far, we have eight closed contracts of which four are in effect. Seven more of these agreements are being prepared, i.e. seven more countries. Costs are minimal, that is, gone. As I have already mentioned, unfortunately, there are not many of these signed agreements. These agreements, in particular, with the Republic of Slovenia and the state of Israel, are seen as significant progress in the diplomatic relations of the two countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14615	Thank you. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) In this case, we move on to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word has a national MP, Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14616	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is good that the 1978 law is changed in view of the significant changes that took place in our social system, in the very structure of the state and also in international practice. However, in addition to the progress that is evident, this matter remains incompletely defined. I would indeed like to say a few words about Article 8 which deals with the application of certain agreements before ratification in Parliament. In this way, the executive authority takes on the role of the legislative authority from within, and we can come into a situation where individual international contracts, for example, can be negotiated by law enforcement authorities. The loans begin to be realised before entering the procedure. Then my question is - then what does parliament decide? The Vienna Convention, the truth of the will, recognises the need for individual contracts to be implemented immediately. However, just as parliament can call a session to lift immunity to a judge, or to the prosecutor day by day, it can also recognise urgency and call a session where ratification will be done. I'd do a little depression and say that the main problem, when it comes to financial agreements, is neither temporary application nor ratification speed. According to the Public Debt Administration, Serbia paid 429.4m dinars last year for an approved fee, rather than withdrawing funds based on loans. Among these loans are those loans that were granted five years ago and are not realised because of unprepared projects. So someone fat in the ministries doesn't do their job, and that's why the law doesn't need to be changed this way. We suggest that this temporary application be deleted. I would also refer to Article 14 which defines which contracts are subject to confirmation by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is good to introduce the government's obligation to deliver contracts to confirm, military, political and economic nature, as well as those contracts that create financial commitments and those contracts that require the adoption of new or amendments to existing laws, thus preventing abuse of the executive authority. However, the legislator is unclear in the sense of who is responsible for assessing the nature of the contract and by which criteria the nature of the contract is assessed. So far, the practice is that it was the government. It stays that way and further, which opens up the space for abuse again. For the sake of illustration, let's say the Kumanian Agreement is not ratified. The legislators also did not state the need to confirm international agreements in the areas of internal affairs and justice, which is also very important. In the view of the DSS, it is necessary to list which types of international contracts are subject to attestation in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to define that all those contracts that are accessible to an international organisation of national character must pass both at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and from citizens through the referendums. Let's say, if a future government wants to initiate negotiations or sign a treaty on Serbia's eventual accession to a military alliance, then it is necessary to implement a referendum first and then a confirmation in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, if the referendum is positive. That is how we affirm Parliament's decision on military neutrality, which was made in December 2007, in the framework of the Resolution on the Protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. It also avoids any authority, by reputation, in Hungary or Slovenia, to bring us into a military alliance without the public's statement. I would also deal with Article 20, which defines that the government can arbitrarily publish in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" international contracts that are subject to confirmation. This arbitration of the Government is contrary to the guaranteed public law of the work of the state authorities, i.e. the right to notification, which is guaranteed in our Constitution, in Article 51 and the obligation to publish laws and other general acts, also a member of the Constitution 196. An illustrative example, for example, is that the agreement between Serbia's MUP and Eulex has not been published at all in "The Official Messenger". They didn't even get a look at the MPs. To remember a little bit of history, King Milan Obrenovic accepted the secret convention, which in 1882 gave serious state concessions to Austro-Hungarian, so that Serbia, apart from its political dependence on the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, also subdued its economic power to the monarchy. In return, Austria protected the interests of the Obrenovic dynasty. To avoid secret conventions and secret agreements, we now see that it is one of the Bundestag requirements for Serbia with Pristina institutions, I quote, in a legally binding way to regulate normalisation of relations. This treats Kosovo and Metohija as an independent state and introduces the principle of two Germanys. Now I wonder – could the adoption of a law in such an unsettled form serve as a legal basis for the conclusion of such a contract and does such a law provide a framework for some kind of anti-constitutional agreement with Pristina, that it enters into force even without publication in the "Official Messenger"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14617	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14618	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, we have one rare life-practice ahead of us, which is that on stage the law that was passed in this country 35 years ago is now being replaced by a new legislative project, i.e. by a bill. It is rare that the law in these rooms lasted this long a lifetime - 35 years. This could say that the law was very good or could say something negative, which is that the law was rarely applied, because in the meantime several legal-state entities changed in these areas, and the same law was used, namely this Law on the conclusion of international contracts and the confirmation of international contracts and agreements. We got a bill of law in the process, saw it. What we did not fully agree with as a parliamentary group, we tried to amend it in amendment. If the minister will have the ear to respect us, we will respect. Otherwise, we do not see any other serious problems why we should not support the voting day as a parliamentary group of this law. So, first of all, we believe that through the amendments that we have applied, and I think that colleagues from other parliamentary groups have responded similarly, the supervisory role of the Assembly needs to be strengthened, i.e. safeguarding the supervisory role of the Assembly. The work of the Committee should be attended and thus clearly co-operated with the Government, precisely in terms of international contracts, as Articles 1, 2 and 3 clearly determines the subject matter of the law, the concept of an international contract, the entities implementing the international contract. International contracts can be legitimate and can be controversial. International contracts can be bilateral or multilateral. But what's important, international contracts are something that in any case confirms the sovereignty and integrity of the state. The importance of the state is precisely how interested other countries are to conclude international agreements with it, regardless of their nature. This is what the congregation should be involved in, above all, through the board. We are in favour of strengthening the capacity of the Assembly committees, which can be extremely and constructive and extremely useful to the government in making such significant contracts. I think you will look at the amendments that concern, above all, Article 8, and some other members, and that in the Committee's work, when we decide on the amendments and in the sitting itself, you will decide to accept them. What we feel is equally important is to note that the implementation of this law will not burden the Republic of Serbia's budget. What is good in this law is that Serbia has a modern law regarding the signing of agreements and agreements on the international political scene, that it would certainly be a relevant partner and that other countries would be interested in co-operation with Serbia, i.e. seeing an equal partner in Serbia. It is up to this congregation to participate actively. It is in this assembly that Serbia's dignity, sovereignty and integrity are being safeguarded in this way that we will also support a good legal project in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14619	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14620	Thank you. This is the second time, to finish the debate. My predecessor from DSS Sanda Raskovic Ivić gave very good light to the problem of Article 14. I'd still be attached to this article on 14th. As we said at the outset, the law knows contracts that are confirmed in the National Assembly and that are not confirmed. In Article 14 of the Law, it provides a formula to distinguish between those contracts to be confirmed in the National Assembly and those contracts that are not required. I'll be free to read it to you. Article 14 says, "The National Assembly confirms international agreements of military, political and economic nature, contracts that create financial commitments for the Republic of Serbia, contracts that require the adoption of new or amendments to existing laws and contracts that deviate from existing legal solutions." This last thing I read, whenever an international contract requires changes in domestic legislation, any changes, it's a very specific provision. We're here very little on slippery ground. It's easy to identify. However, when it comes to these other concepts that have been put in place here, those people in the administration of the competent ministry who made the bill considered standards and expressions "military nature", "political nature", "economic nature", that they are sufficiently specific. The problem, however, is that our foreign-political practice shows a certain chaos in the area. Like I said at first, life writes laws, we don't write them ourselves. We need to take care of whether the examples we've had in our practice so far indicate a lack of such standards. Is this the definition of standard, the political nature of contract, good? I will return once again, for example, to whom I first quickly crossed, due to the lack of time available to the group's authorised representative, this is the issue of a famous police agreement, meaning the border agreement with EULEX. Can anyone convince me it's not a political agreement, that he doesn't have political content? Let's talk about it openly. Is it possible that the police agreement doesn't have any political content? Is it possible that this agreement does not oblige the National Assembly to ratify such an agreement? Here's the EULEX foreign element in the whole story. Eulex represents the EU as a partner in international communication. This agreement produces certain effects in everyday reality. So it is sufficient that this example is presented, that we do not return to our 19th century history, that it is necessary to ratify this agreement in the National Assembly. This ratification has never occurred, and that is why we are binding, in our presentation, on purpose, to make it more clear, to the application of Article 11 concerning Article 20. Article 20, which excludes the publication of international agreements which are not subject to ratification. This results in a very clear effect. If a police agreement is not an agreement that is subject to ratification in the National Assembly, it insists it does not have to be published. If it doesn't have to be published either, we don't need to know in detail its contents, as MPs. Let's be rational enough to answer that question. Is it a system error or not? Of course it is. Let's just remember the Kumanovo Agreement. It's an agreement that has effectively suspended the state of war. Is it normal for such an agreement as is normal and for a decision to declare wartime status to pass through the National Assembly, is it possible that such an agreement does not go to ratification in the National Assembly? It was, of course, a federal state. It doesn't change things for us. So that's not normal stuff. We don't have a definitive response through this law to the challenges this country has endured. We don't speak imaginaryly at all. We don't assume things that might happen, but about something that's been going on, about something that we're having fun about, about the misery in this country. That's the essence of the whole story. We're going to do one more thing that I think is extremely important. When it comes to Article 14, as regards the nature of the contract, this is Sanda Raskovic Ivić, the basic question arises – who estimates it? Of course, it is natural for a state authority, which is competent under the Constitution to run a controversial policy, to be involved in an assessment. But if a state body, i.e. The government leading foreign policy, in this way assessing and making such criminal failures – I'm not talking about this government, I'm talking about governments that are responsible for these effects, then it's normal and it's natural to prevent it. How can that be prevented? Only through the proper development of legal norms that point to the mistakes that have occurred in the past, so that they do not repeat themselves in the future. That is why I say that it is not possible for the amendment to act on this member of the law, but rather for the Government, in agreement with the committee responsible, to come up with an appropriate solution. Believe me, this solution is not good and there is no other reason to vote against this law. This was absolutely the only one that was enough. One only enough and there's no reason to move on. I remained obliged to explain something, which was also said for a little while, about something we suggested and didn't find a place in the bill, so whether or not the law would be passed or not, it would be worth it. You know when the contract comes into effect. When is the international contract applied? Then when the parties agree - in a way and at a time when the parties agree on it. The principle of consent agreement by the Contracting Party is the primary principle. If Contracting Parties agree to apply the agreement in such a way and in such a way that it starts to apply then and then, it should be respected. The contract is a law for parties, laws for the state in relation to other countries or international organisations with which the contract is concluded. We're starting from another thing, another experience that we had relatively recently, a few years ago. It is a matter of unilateral application of the agreement, when the unilaterality of the application of the agreement is not agreed. It's not agreed. So if we have a unilateral application of the agreement, it needs to be thrown out and introduced extremely. We wouldn't introduce her, not exclusively, but would leave it to politics and the parties to the contract. Therefore, the principle of reciprocity must be introduced into the law. We have also given an amendment that reads this way, to put a new title after Article 23, which is the principle of reciprocity, and Article 23 would then be 23a or 24th, and it would read – confirmed international agreements under this law will apply both sides of the signatories, in accordance with the principle of reciprocity. It's protection. Why is that protection? Because the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which was unilaterally applied, has done doubtless harm to the state of Serbia. We had damage in customs. We have suffered millions in euro each year from the unilateral application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. A three-month loss of 17m euros was produced in the first few years for the state of Serbia. If it's something that's normal and if it's something this Assembly shouldn't ban, then I really don't know. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14621	Thank you. Mr. Granny, according to the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14622	Madam Chairman, the Rules of Procedure, member of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly, has been violated. I wasn't really a prosecutor when I was younger and underexperienced. It is not popular, nor valuable in Serbia. However, what I have to point out and what I'm afraid of, is precisely because of some previous experience, which is that some cards were inserted into the DS Parliament Club. Besides fellow Milivojevic, without the desire to challenge him to a replica, there's no one else here anymore. Some MPs have also been shot down and whether there are cards in there or not - because of some previous experience and some times when they were voted from Bodrum, when they were voted from Athens, at a time when the current DS deputy president was head of the DS parliamentary group, I really doubt that something with these cards could be done again, which is neither according to the Rules of Procedure nor by the rules, nor by the laws of the Republic of Serbia. I call on professional services, not only in the DS parliamentary group but also in all other groups, including in the SNS parliamentary group, if necessary, to respond to the Rules of Procedure and to draw these cards. I think that in this way, indeed, and in this absence of sitting and not being interested in the topics that are on the agenda today, there is one disrespect for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that we are here for today and for which we are passing these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14623	Thank you. I'd ask professional services to pick up cards where they're not MPs. In accordance with Article 27 and Article 87(2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working after 1800 hours for the purpose of adopting acts in the agenda. I'm setting a break for one hour. We'll be back to work at 1600 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14624	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. Just sign in. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14625	Dear President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Paragraphs 129 and 127. Article 129 says - the MP is obliged to immediately report his identification card to the Secretary-General of the National Assembly. Article 127, paragraph 2, says - for a MP who uses the identification card of the second MP, or otherwise abuses the electronic voting system, the president of the National Assembly expresses his distance from the session. I have to inform you that, at the end of the session, I have a missing identification card, which was in my seat right now, and I have sent a memo to the secretary general asking that the Security Service deliver me a tape of the session, to see which one of the MPs approached my post and took my identification card, since we have information on who did this, but we still trust the Secretary General's data more. I must also inform you that I received a warning in the morning section for criticizing the ruling majority, and I'm under number eight on the speaker list. I immediately ask the question - is this a way to prevent the opposition from speaking in this assembly too, and how many times has someone stolen cards to secure a quorum for the morning work session? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14626	I have been informed of this case and by the Secretary-General that in the procedure your request, too, that the service has found your card and, as far as I can see, the card has been returned. Of course, we'll determine all the facts about this. But also, I just want to assure you, the first two things. Indeed, in no way, at least I will not allow anyone to be prevented from speaking in the National Assembly and that is certainly a thing that cannot happen because of a replacement card, which at any time can be betrayed to the MP, and I must also ask all the MPs of the people not to, of course, take other people's identification cards. Those cards that remain in the system, and the MPs, of course, are obliged to carry the cards with them, as everyone has repeatedly pointed out, that when the cards leave the Assembly, they must be with them. Of course, I urge other MPs to allow the congregation service to do the job, take the card and return to the MPs, so that they do not take these things into their own hands. Of course, I also checked in the system, your card from the moment of disappearance to this moment was not used in the system, so there was no abuse, no attempt to use your card to, I say, falsely present your presence, or not presence in the O.R., which is good. So, it wasn't more difficult to use a card, but your request is in the process and we'll handle it with the secretary general's office. The next registered speaker is Dragan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14627	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I listened very carefully to the first presentation in the morning of the prime minister, and then to all MPs, both from the opposition and the positions, both those who oppose this law and those who are in favour of this law and who will support the proposal of four laws that we have today on the agenda. As MPs, I was persuaded by what was the minister of justice, who was authorized in front of the republican government, today by reason, by the will of most of us to adopt this law in the form given. Of course, each of these proposals is subject to the amendments, and we will seriously and studioly consider all amendments to these laws and I think that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives will very carefully consider and make proposals to this assembly. I also expect that everyone, whether they are in opposition or in power, finally realize that the cards must be carried with them, that the moment their cards are in the units, they are represented as being there, and they are not. Apparently, it happened with an MP who just called and asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. At the same time, he actually broke the Rules of Procedure, leaving his card in his MP's unit unprotected, and probably someone took it, maybe to make a joke, maybe to let that MP know... (President: Please, this is a topic that there is no need to talk about in the tide. This is something we talked about. Please return to your agenda. ) I just wanted there to be no need to make an eccess of something that wasn't and that we are all very serious here during the discussion and in the conduct of this Parliament. The first law, which was most discussed today, although I did not expect it to be discussed in such detail, is the Law on the conclusion and execution of international contracts. Here it is quite clear, concisely, in one consistent way everything is made clear, as the procedure goes from the moment the proceedings are launched, the authorised person, the authorised promoter. Of course, such proposals are authorised by the Government, and they propose to conduct this procedure on their own initiative or on a proposal from the Authority of State Administration, whose work is mainly covered by the issues governed by the international contract. The initiative can be initiated by different entities. These may be state bodies, economic operators or associations through the authorities of the state administration, which mainly include issues governed by an international contract. There is one amendment that, in my opinion, is very acceptable and we will probably talk about when it comes to the agenda, is that local self-government can also give an initiative to conclude certain contracts that are of international importance, which concern the local self-government. It is also envisaged who will form a delegation to conduct these negotiations. Of course, that is what the Government determines, and it also lays down the basis for negotiating and determines a delegation that will lead those negotiations. So it's going to be people very professional for a certain kind of work, for a certain activity. They will form a delegation that will draw up these contracts that will later have to present to the government, which receives the report on negotiations from the delegation, and the report is handed over to the government. The government also empowers someone, a particular person who will sign it, and after all that, the Government makes a proposal to the Assembly, and we are the ones who, each of these laws regarding various areas, are going to be able to search here, to declare all these contracts and ultimately ratify them, or confirm a contract that has already been signed. Article 14 clearly states – The National Assembly confirms international agreements concerning military, political, economic, financial, financial obligations for the Republic of Serbia, contracts requiring the adoption of new or amending existing laws and contracts which deviate from existing legal solutions. So, in a very clear form, what it is that the National Assembly will adopt, which are the areas concerned by the laws on which we are going to search here, and it is clear that, on all the laws to be concluded, there is also a statement of this assembly, because there are many laws that are very low-level, which are not needed to be ratified in the National Assembly and in this way will be fully understood as a law, in the day of voting, the SNS will vote for it, which amends the law that was adopted here in 1978, when there was an SFRJ. Much of that day has changed, so it is clear that this law had to be proposed and adopted, because many things and constitutional arrangements have changed and we will support this law in the day of the vote. Those laws that are also interesting, which are on the agenda today, are the draft legislation on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the work of family members, staff of diplomatic and consular offices. Also, such an agreement is signed with the state of Israel. What is important for these laws, or agreements that have been made, should be said that all people who deal with diplomatic and consular affairs, and at the same time are separated from the family, cannot provide as much responsibility and work as would be provided by people who are surrounded by their families, who have wives or non-marriage wives, who have their children and who are at the same time taken care of by the state where they are, in principle of reciprocity. So, each of them will have the opportunity to get a job, each of them will be excluded from prosecution, each of them will have certain social protection that is provided for citizens in the country in which they live. So with Slovenia and the state of Israel, we will have the possibility that all of our representatives in diplomatic and consular representations can take their family, take their wives who will be employed there and have the opportunity to prove themselves professionally, not to neglect the profession for which they have been educated. Finally, the fourth draft of the law is a bill confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on police co-operation. It is important to say that this government, seeking to minimise the possibility of dealing with crime, created such a situation in the environment, that with all countries where criminals from Serbia found refuge, where they could escape, where they created a network of pillows, the moment we adopted this law with Slovenia and on co-operation between our two police forces, it would not be a place or shelter where someone could hide, to get away from the law of prosecution or police of the Republic of Serbia, and also the police from the Republic of Slovenia. What is also important to say, the extent of co-operation between the parties, between the police of the Republic of Serbia and the police of the Republic of Slovenia, is that they will have in particular public order and the security of traffic, as well as the repression, detection and lighting of criminal offences, particularly organised crime, terrorism, human trafficking and illegal migration, high-tech crime, illegal drug trafficking and psychotropic substances, as well as other crimes of international character, which, of course, can become very relevant in the meantime. This is also done on the principle of reciprocity, respecting the laws and procedures in countries where the agreement applies, which applies to Slovenia and Serbia. So this whole set of laws came across approval in the public of Serbia and came across the acceptance of most MPs in this parliament. In voting day, the SNS will vote and we will adopt all four draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14628	Thank you. The word is made by MP Petar Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14629	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, under the Vienna Convention on Contract Law, an international agreement between states has been characterised, and international organisations have been later added, and that is regulated by international law. It is our obligation, more than when it comes to other countries, to respect international law, especially given the secessionist act of Kosovo Albanians who are spiritually supported by major Western forces. It is therefore important to stick to the established principles of international law because it is the only guarantee that the force does not prevail over the right. To be classified in the order of countries that insist on international law actually means, among other things, a careful assessment of the state in the conclusion of international contracts. Various names are used for the international contract in practice. Among other things, there is also the name of the charter, convention, pact, etc. I will remain on the name of the agreement, which marks the exchange of notes between the two governments, two parliaments, heads of state or foreign minister, which actually creates a certain international legal relationship. Probably also guided by this fact, we were able to hear in the public that seven agreements, agreed in Brussels, Borko Stefanovic, were in fact the kind of agreement that had an international legal obligation and therefore the current government said that what was agreed must be applied. This is where we get the key problem. In fact, a state policy based on European integration implies that it must follow the will, or interest of Brussels. This puts the state policy at risk of these agreements agreed in Brussels becoming the character of international agreements. The EU's goal is independent Kosovo and the EU is the sponsor of negotiations between Belgrade and Pristina. Not only is the EU using these negotiations to meet its goal above all, but it is trying to force Serbia to be an accomplice to the recognition of an independent Kosovo, i.e. Belgrade to be the one who will actually recognise and give up the works of its own territory. When we set things up, when we know about the European Commission's report where the EU is asking for Serbia to recognise Kosovo's territorial integrity, when we know about the last scrap paper, where Serbia's most open request to recognise Kosovo's independence, we need to be aware that everything agreed under the EU's auspices will have an exclusively international character for the EU. That is why the DSS criticised these seven agreements and criticised the EU-sponsored negotiations, because if the previous government had the Constitution of Serbia before it, there would certainly be no such harmful agreements and the DSS would not be able to submit a proposal to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of the constitutionality of the four regulations created under these harmful Brussels agreements. Apparently, the previous government, not having before it the Constitution of Serbia, had Ahtisaari's plan, according to which she had adopted these agreements. Because how else do we explain the fact about the deal, or the agreement, when it comes to books and monasteries, that we have the fact that we're looking for it with Annex 7. Ahtisaari's plan? Also, point 1.5 of the Ahtisaari plan requires Kosovo's participation in regional conferences. Also, Annex 8, point 3.1 requires the establishment of integrated border management. So we have an agreement to implement these agreements according to Ahtisaari's plan. Therefore, the only way that these harmful agreements do not get the character of international agreements is for Serbia to give up European integration, because there is no dilemma – for the EU negotiations between Belgrade and Pristina are exclusively negotiations between the two countries and every agreement that happens there they see as some kind of international agreement. That is why it was important that before entering these negotiations, which were certainly harmful, the state of Serbia comes out with its platform, which implies establishing a constitutional and legal link between Serbia and its southern province of Kosovo and Metohija, because without it, we come up with any solution offered in a resolution adopted by the Serbian Parliament, which the DSS did not vote for, is a solution within an independent Kosovo. That is why he automatically puts Serbia in a position to recognise Kosovo's independence. So this is not about the higher or smaller powers that the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija are supposed to receive but, above all, about handing over the Serbian people to an independent state of Kosovo through these negotiations. It is therefore necessary to reject the path of European integration, and only so can these agreements get the character of international agreements, and the fact that negotiations between Belgrade and Pristina failed last night. (President: Please stick to the agenda, if you do not stick to the agenda I will give you a warning. ) So, it says that we are on a good track to establish a policy of state and national interest where politics will be rejected that the EU has no alternative, where very harmful agreements agreed by Borko Stefanovic will once begin to respect the Constitution of Serbia and not give us first of all, the Ahtisaari plan will be the basis for resolving the issues of Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14630	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shajin has the word. Mr. Shayin isn't here. MP Srdjan Milivojevic. The word is from the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14631	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we have a joint search on four points of the agenda, but as most of my colleagues, I will remain most in the draft law on the conclusion and execution of international contracts. The reasons for passing this law are for us indisputable. The only question remains, then, whether this law has best defined what is the subject, the way, the procedure and the powers that those who are in charge of the negotiations, or who conclude international contracts. I don't think it would be against the fact that this law contains in itself and an explanation of what is considered an international contract, and what is not considered an international contract, because then we would know with much more certainty what this law in general actually applies to. It was clear that it was necessary to pass this law, but when it comes to politics, then there is always a question of the political moment at which a law is being proposed, so the question is for us – why is this exactly the political moment in which the adoption of the law on the conclusion of international agreements is proposed when we simultaneously follow the negotiations that are being held between Belgrade and Pristina and I suggest that our negotiating delegation in Brussels could accept something that might fall under an international contract. So, I think it would be good for the minister to remove any doubt if possible, that the coincidence of the time of adoption of this law and what is happening now in Brussels is not in any way related, because the question can indeed be asked – whether the negotiations in Brussels lead to something we need this law for. Then we come to the very solutions within the laws that also open certain political reserves and doubts, and can even be said about what the intentions can be, not only by adopting this law, but also by the results of the negotiations that are being held in Brussels. In Article 8, although the minister or whoever wrote an explanation of the legal solution, although it is said that the government can apply international contracts before ratification, and this specifically refers to those international contracts that need to be ratified by the National Assembly. It is incorrect to explain that the opinion of the committee responsible is previously obtained. In fact, Article 8 that regulates this matter does not state that any body of the Assembly is declared in the event that the Government approaches the application of an international contract which has not previously been ratified in the National Assembly, and under this law belongs to that category of international contracts that need to be ratified in the Assembly. I want to believe that it is a mistake, not a deliberate attempt to deceive, not only the MPs of the National Assembly, but the public about which they will actually be able to enable the Government to apply the international agreement before it is ratified by the National Assembly. Also, I expect the minister to give an unambiguous answer as to how it is possible in the explanation of Article 8 that the previous opinion will be given by the competent committee of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, and that it is not stated anywhere in the law. It's not about a minor failure, it's about a huge mistake that can have really inconceivable consequences. Of course, the question of the definition of international agreements remains, whether it is clear what are the international agreements that must be ratified by the National Assembly. There is one general rule that defines these as political, military, economic and those who commit Serbia to some kind of financial separation. I think that definition is so general that it doesn't give an absolutely clear answer to what it really is. Because what is a political international contract? What's an economic international contract? Who will interpret on the basis of such general provisions each individual international contract whether it is subject to ratification in the National Assembly or not. So, we can only conclude from this one thing, which is that this is how the government is trying to create a legislative space in which the government will have a discretionary opportunity to assess itself what is going on in front of the National Assembly, and what should not be ratified in the National Assembly. This once again brings us to the next question – does this actually violate the basic constitutional authority of the National Assembly, which says that the National Assembly has ratified and confirmed international contracts. Since it is not clearly defined what is in this category and what is not in this category. So it is not clear what it is that the National Assembly must inevitably ratify, and what it is that international arrangements, international contracts that do not fall within the category of those contracts that are to be ratified by the National Assembly. The question arises – whether international conventions on human rights, since I cannot define them now in this general definition that you have cited as four categories of very general. Are international conventions on human rights something that ratifys this National Assembly? Do international conventions of international organisations whose member we are, e.g. UN, or UNESCO, or other international organisations, ratifications of declarations, conventions, etc., whether they belong to this category ratified by the National Assembly. By my deep conviction, they should fall. By this definition, maybe not. So, are the annexes of the individual declarations of the international ones that we have already adopted, which come to us as annexes or supplements, whether or not this National Assembly ratifys them? The Declaration was ratified by the National Assembly under this law. The annexes of these same declarations which the state undertakes to respect certain rights or to introduce certain standards into a particular area do not have to ratify the National Assembly? Besides, of course, there's a need for this area to be settled, given that the flow of time has arranged this system in a completely new way, I think it's really asking the minister to give us a clear answer to the questions that are being asked here. On the other hand, I think it is necessary that if there are no concrete amendments that will fix these members that leave wide scope for discretionary interpretation, to accept the amendments to which it will be removed. It is also said in Article 20 – the Government may decide, on a proposal from the competent authority of the State Administration, that the international agreements, referred to in Article 14(2), are therefore those contracts which are not ratified in the National Assembly, and special international contracts which may be concluded, that they may be published in the "Official Messenger". So, if something is not published to the "Official Messenger", the question is asked – can the public have insight into what is concluded as an international contract? If he can, and he doesn't have to, and that's what the Government has discreetly decided again, to publish in the Served Messenger. So, I think that every international contract defined by this law must be announced in the "Serious Messenger", because no matter what it means by certain obligations of the state, and that means that these obligations must be made available to the public for insight. So, however defined by a member who explains and further defines what are international agreements ratified by the National Assembly, all contracts of international character must in some way be given light to the public by publication in what is "the Official Messenger". I return to the beginning, although the need for this law existed, the moment at which it is brought is caused by a certain chill, because of the possibility that it is now being adopted as a precondition for what follows us after the Brussels talks, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the law contains sufficient inaccuracies and enough discretionary powers of the government to cause serious reserves in good faith of whoever proposes this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14632	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14633	Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Justice, I have given sufficient arguments and criticism at the expense of this law and what needs to be corrected. I have a duty, a duty for the sake of truth, to answer only a few doubts, a lack of clarity and a lack of truth which were later made, some through the violations of the Rules of Procedure, some in a different way, and as far as this law is concerned. So I criticised Article 2 of this word – the Republic of Serbia concludes in writing the contract. A lot of amendments have been submitted because of this word "literate", because it's a grammatically correctly termed "written" form and I've said it many times. However, some MPs said this was a law written by the DS. You've had a chance to see what DS-written laws look like. These grammatical mistakes don't happen to us. The truth is, this isn't a law written by DS. All the laws that enter the assembly procedure discussed by this assembly, this parliament, pass some lecturing. There is a procedure for how the government's law travels to Parliament. As a minister of justice, you know very well, your laws, at least as far as they're concerned, are stylishly done and there's your legal knowledge, but you can see the ignorance and illiteracy of those who do this lecture. I don't see the need for anyone to react and try to deny me, because this is a fact that is undeniable. When it comes to all the other issues and suggestions, because of the efficiency of this Parliament's work, I would not repeat and talk about what I said in the morning and in the afternoon session, but I would just like to add a few very important things and point to two nonsensions, through which we simply cannot cross over. It concerns Article 8, which says the government of the Republic of Serbia can decide that an international agreement signed applies before ratification is passed in the National Assembly. I ask now, if the local government of the town of Kruševec makes a decision to be in charge because of some of its needs, that credit arrangement is approved, the government is able to use this agreement, and then we Council members of the So City of Kruševac, in some way, change such a decision or, on the other hand, an even worse situation is when it comes to international financial arrangements, with some other financial institutions, the government approves something to pass and that it can be applied, and then MPs of the National Assembly say - we will not ratify it, because we do not think it is in the best interest of the citizens of this country. Imagine when we had that "Satellite" affair for renting satellites, a signed agreement, and that this law was in force, 30 days of the agreement being applied, then the Assembly doesn't vote it, and who's having the consequences? In particular, I have to repeat what Mrs Nada Kolundzija said, it is a very sensitive moment during the negotiations with the self-proclaimed republic of Kosovo, with a Pristina delegation, do we now adopt such a law, because the government of the Republic of Serbia wants responsibility with the negotiating team that makes Dacic, Nikolic and other members of the government, from which Tomislav Nikolic has elegantly drawn himself out, is it possible that our negotiating team's intention to transfer this historic responsibility to the back of this parliament and thus demonstrates that it is not up to the temptations it itself produced and caused? These are important things, especially when there is a provision in Article 20 that is directly contrary to Article 196, which says, and in relation to Article 51, which says first that the public, every citizen of this country has the right to be informed of everything, of every act, of every signed paragraph, of every contract on which that paragraph is placed, and whether it is now someone trying to abolish the right of Serbian citizens to the notice guaranteed by Article 51 of the Constitution or a member of the 196th Constitution that says - the publication of laws and other general acts, the laws of all other general acts shall be published before the entry into force. It is not good for interstate agreements to be signed in this way, and it is particularly sensitive when you gave this law to the MPs. I know how many in the ruling majority have MPs who have repeatedly defended Kosovo and Metohija. Don't let us pass a law at a small door that will undo your efforts, your work, your beliefs. Don't let the small door be brought before the MPs by a law that allows you to do things that may make you ashamed of generations. I hear the pitch again, I'm glad, because obviously there are those who won't be ashamed of it. You were already traveling to Brussels yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14634	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14635	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I remain on my claim that this law has been taken over by the former government. If I'm wrong, let the minister deny me. Before I released this information, I checked what could have been visually established. So, on my question, the minister representing these laws said – it is true, it is literally prescribed by the law proposed by the party of the former regime. This is not a questionable matter, and in a certain way we show our greatness, our democracy, that a law that has been put into practice and written by one party of the former regimes should be taken over and proposed in this same form to the Assembly. It's nothing weird and it proves that we don't make divides out of difference. But it's very strange that those who wrote that law now strongly oppose themselves, with their own text. It's obvious that when you're in power, it suits you, but when you lose power, then your own text no longer suits you if it comes in the process and you lose power in the meantime. The mention of the satellite contract is very distasteful, given that we know very well who has exercised power in the last 10 to 12 years, and it is particularly untasteful because the satellite affair and the contract came with the approval of the Supreme Defence Council, which was attended by an individual who wanted to continue pushing us to be President of the Republic. So, when we hear it from the ranks of their party, that kind of complaint to some new government, then it's even weirder. I'm afraid Mr. Katancevic will have a problem establishing a hierarchy in the organs of a party that I will not further interfere with. As for this law on the conclusion of international contracts, I will support it, regardless of who wrote it and who proposed it, for the simple reason that we have so far been subject to the law, not past or before the state, but I think that, from the former law that governed this area, we have changed three states and entered the fourth. I think international contracts were concluded under the laws passed by the former SFRY in the '70s and '80s, and it was high time for such a law governing the conclusion of international contracts to be changed. Maybe he's not perfect, maybe he's not well written, maybe this is in writing wrong, but, as we've taken over, that's how we suggested to the MPs who are now pulling out of this text what doesn't suit them even though their party colleagues wrote it with their own hand. As far as these international contracts are concerned, I'd like to say that you know exactly who's in charge here, who's in charge, who's confirming international contracts, and it's time to know. Unless something is brought to perfection, there is time to fix it, but since the SFRY has long since existed, then the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which created this "Satellite" affair, is also missing, and now is Serbia's competent state, I think it's time for this law to change. With that in mind, we recently adopted the 2001 Treaty. We know very well who exercised power on the republican and federal level. So, it was the government of Zoran Djindjic, which I also supported, and at the federal level was the DOS coalition and the 90s party, a Montenegrin party that today some who made the coalition with them call very backward forces. It was a coalition that concluded the International Treaty on Genetic Resources in 2001. We just confirmed it recently. It was a shame for 12 years that a contract signed would not be confirmed and two or three states would disappear in the meantime. I was very reluctant to talk about this law, given that we have given our genetic resources immediately, without delay and thus put our varieties at risk, because the previous regime has not done anything in the past 12 years to ensure from the moment of signing the contract to the confirmation to protect our seed varieties of seedlings, so that we are in trouble with Palanka, Cačak, Zemun Polje and the Institute of Ratio in Novi Sad. So, since they didn't know during that period that such a contract was signed, that they didn't protect our genetic resources and varieties of seeds, we are now in trouble that after confirming this contract, it can come to someone taking over our genetic resources because, in accordance with that contract, we are obliged to provide it and to come in a position to buy our own seeds from those who have taken over absolutely free of our genetic resources. We know very well who led the Federal Ministry of Agriculture then, who made the coalition. I'd like this bill to be time-consuming that we don't have 12 years from the moment of signing the contract until it's confirmed. So, it's just that the deadline is that in the event of temporary action on the conclusion of a contract, the deadline the government has to propose to confirm to the Assembly is 30 days and that's good. If part of the contract or all of the contract is applied, it is good, that the Government does not have a longer period of 30 days and that the Assembly has to confirm that contract within that time period or that what is signed is out of force. I want to say, once again, that no matter who wrote and who proposed this bill, I will vote for it, but I have a reserve as president of the People's Peasants' Party on that contract that we've waited 12 years to confirm without anything being done in that period to protect our producers of varieties and seedlings. As for the Law on Confirming Co-operation with Slovenia, I will support it and I am sorry that such a law did not exist before, when it was this "Nuba Invest" or whatever it was called. If we had the right to share with them data, if Slovenia, like us, had the obligation to verify at a certain procedure and at a certain time interval, some data, might have stopped in time for certain political crime on the way. Because when we talk about police co-operation, we are talking about classical crime, drug dealers, classical criminals, who have made their own network in the Balkans, and forget that in the Balkans, and especially in Serbia, in the last 10 to 12 years, there has been one of the biggest crimes that has been done to this country and this people, which is the political crime that has cost these citizens, by some estimates, almost 50 billion euros. So, and how did the citizens of this country pay for that political-functional crime that wasn't contained. That is why I welcome your cooperation with Slovenia. If there had been such agreements before, if there had been a exchange of data on jury accounts, on the fingerprints of certain officials, I believe this state could have avoided multimillion-dollar damage. Any contract that allows us to contain crime I will support, especially one that I have already underlined has cost this country and this people a lot, that they have promised us that we will eat with gold spoons, and that they have led us to completely empty plates and that they have to answer for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14636	Mrs. Djeric, I have you registered in the system. You have five minutes left, but only when I've exhausted a list of speakers who haven't spoken for the first time. That's what the Rules of Procedure is like. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Is that a replica? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14637	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is a wonderful proverb in the Serbian people, which says, "I am not sworn by my mother for gambling, but by taking it out." If anyone can't write the law, then he can go over it, but when he prescribes it, at least he can prescribe it to be written, so it won't be illiterate. We don't have a problem if some good regulation of our law is going to overwrite, but we have a problem when he doesn't have a grammatically correct copy of it. That's the first problem you've got. He may not have mentioned me, but he mentioned my discussion, and according to the Rules of Procedure, I have a right to replication. It is very easy to read in the Rules of Procedure for those who read the Rules of Procedure. Cyrillic was written for those whose Cyrillic is a foreign letter. The other problem is why you have such a bad opinion of your current coalition partners. No one can patch that up. You keep saying the previous government. Don't you like your PUPS colleagues so much, from the SPS, from the G17 plus? Do you have such a bad opinion of them that you have to publicly criticize them every time? I don't think that's good. In the end, when we talk about an agreement with Slovenia -- if you had thought this way in 1991, so Slovenia and Serbia would still be the same country and we would all be plates full, but the cemetery would be empty. When you talk about millions and billions stolen, remember, once and say something about hundreds of thousands killed. The money will sometimes be paid back. The dead from the graves will never rise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14638	Replica National MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14639	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, first I didn't understand the basis for the replica, but it doesn't matter. I'm not one of those... (President: the same basis that you had, misread. I wanted to say that you are right, of those who do not avoid controversy and I am very pleased when the chairman applies the same standards. I wouldn't have gotten a word by now, but thanks to your presidency, I've managed to secure the same rights as my previous colleague. As for this replica of literacy and illiteracy and concluded in writing, I must say again that someone first needs to consult all former ministers, so I will say that it writes, in this same way in writing, that it should be expressed in this way, writes the textbook of international law. The textbook of Gasha the Prince and Tibor the Varadah. So, if they're not professional, if they're wrong, then this mistake has been transposed into this law, then I was wrong because I trusted Gashi Knezevic and Tibor Varadi, and that's certainly not the political option that I belong to. I really voted for one government from 2000 to 2003, and I'm already fed up with everything when someone tries this side to collectively transfer co-operation with some forces from the 1990s when they were killed, etc. I am obliged to say that I did not make an alliance for Seselj in 1993, but that Zoran Djindjic did. So it was an alliance when the president of the assembly was elected, and certainly these senior MPs remember it very well, and it happened that four DS MPs that the opposition then made along with Vojislav Seselj, that the agreement had been issued and that it was not there. And also, Gaddafi didn't honor me, so he decorated their former president, and when we talk about these totalitarian regimes, about the 1990s, then we should have that in mind, and we should have that ox in the Palace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14640	MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14641	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues, we are talking today, among other things, about the draft law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts. Believe me, I am pleased that the draft law was finally entered into the procedure which should in some way replace the existing law, the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts that are being implemented today, which is the law adopted in 1978, which was signed by the President of the Republic of Josip Broz Tito, and then the President of the SFRJ Assembly was a gentleman, i.e. Comrade Dragoslav Marković. The fact is that it needs to be changed in some way, arranged in relation to the constitutional solution and everything else. However, the fact that I am timing when it comes to procedure may in some way deepen doubt whether it is just fixing, or adopting text that should be applied for a long period of years or whether it is dealing with certain current situations that can be put ahead of us. That is why I believe that our discussion should be tied to what is proposed by the bill itself. Is there any possibility that, until we have declared ourselves, we will vote on the solutions offered, to see whether the amendment, whether or not adopting certain amendments in the procedure, is possible by adopting amendments, or by proposing amendments by the committee responsible, to reach a text that will divulge any possible suspicion of certain intentions in the draft text of the law? The least of the problems are these technical matters, whether in writing or in writing. The fact is, from 1978, it was written in writing, linguistically, if it's more correct in writing. I think that's the least of the problems. What's the point? The bottom line is that the law that is still being applied today, practically predicts consensus in the conclusion of international contracts at the time, since it was a federal regulation, envisioned the consent of the relevant republican, or regional authorities. Therefore, international contracts requiring the adoption of new or amendments to applicable then, republican or regional laws or which impose specific obligations on one or more republics and autonomous provinces shall be concluded with agreement with the relevant republican or regional authorities. What's now valid is that text. Secondly, in Article 27 of that Law, it was provided that if the agreement on the basis is not reached, the Federal Executive Council would notify the competent authority of the Republic, i.e. the Autonomous Province, that no agreement has been reached and there is a certain process. At that time, the process of harmonisation was envisaged, just so that any interest could not be mentioned in the negotiation or signing of certain contracts that should cause positive or negative effects throughout the community. In that sense, again, I must say that it is a good thing that certain errors that have occurred to us in the bill itself, were spoken of by Mrs Nada Kolundji, when she mentioned and quoted the explicit provision of Article 8. A bill where it says -- the government can extremely authorise a delegation of the Republic of Serbia to accept that an international contract that is confirmed in general or certain of its provisions can be applied temporarily until its entry into force. It does not stand there – after obtaining the consent of the National Assembly’s committee. It's true, it's well stated. On the 10th side of the material, Article 8 provides that the Government may, in exceptional cases, authorise the delegation to be authorised after obtaining the consent of the National Assembly's competent committee and so on. It is good that a form has been found, which Mrs Filipovski and probably a number of fellow Members of the People's Parliament have proposed an amendment that will integrate what it says in its explanation into an integral part of the text of the law, which will become part of the law and will be published in the Official Messenger. The explanation shall not be published. The explanation is not mandatory. In that part, it is good to enter the Official Messenger today and tomorrow this version of which is required to obtain the consent of the National Assembly's board of directors. I think it's a good part of the discussion in which Mrs. Kolundji said about Article 14. about confirming international contracts. It states that the National Assembly confirms international agreements – military, political and economic, financial commitments for the Republic of Serbia, contracts that require the adoption of new or amendments to existing laws and contracts which are deviating from existing legal solutions. Dot. International contracts which do not fall within the contracts referred to in Article 1 shall not be subject to the validation procedure. I'm just pointing to what we had relatively recently and what was discussed at the assembly session. At the previous session, we had a discussion of the draft law on the validation of three agreements and one contract. The three agreements and one contract were concluded between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates. As regards two agreements and one agreement, it is undeniable that there is a competence of the National Assembly, i.e. there would be the competence of the National Assembly to ratify this, because it is stated in co-operation in the area of defence to avoid double taxation in relation to income taxes and mutual incentives and to protect investment. The first agreement is a co-operation agreement. In the title – the co-operation agreement does not specify whether it is a military, political or economic contract. That's exactly what I'm saying right now as an example that it should enable and find the right measure not to be burdened by what may not be considered here in the tide, but in any case, I think there must be an obligation for every signed international contract to be notified to the National Assembly and its committee in the sense of legal obligation. It's some kind of minimum that would have to be, even if there was a formulation left in Article 20. It's a bill of law. In Article 20, it is said – the government may or may not, on a proposal from the competent authority of the state administration, whether it will remember it or not, whether the ministry will propose it or not, decide that the international contract referred to in Article 14(2) of this Act and the specific international contracts provided for in Article 19 of that law shall be published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" and international contracts. I don't see why every contract wouldn't be published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia, but unless there's even that provision, so I think this provision should be interpreted so that the Government should normally publish each one. In any case, we cannot escape our obligation and should not escape the government's obligation to have every international contract delivered to the National Assembly and to the board of directors. It's some kind of minimum that would have to exist. Finally, as regards the contract, the convention, and everything else, concerning human rights, minority rights, concerning the rights of the child, the committee is chaired by the President of the National Assembly, precisely because of the need to consider these matters in a special way. I just think that all these areas that would have to be imperially considered and ratified by the National Assembly. This, especially when adopting generally accepted standards, what is acceptable, what is good, what is positive for the whole world, is also good to be ratified in the National Assembly, because then not only does the government accept it as an executive body, but the whole state accepts it, the whole people. That is why, when such values are adopted, I find it useful to ask the National Assembly to express state unity, national unity and unity of all citizens for the adoption of basic values that have been accepted worldwide. In that sense, I believe that there is a possibility that what can in some way be suspected of being improved in the next work and that we can reach a good law that will be proud and dim to all of us and that will provide what is most important – the protection of the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14642	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14643	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak very briefly about this set of laws and the most or only about the law that has caused the most attention, the most controversy, and that is the proposal for a law on the conclusion and execution of international contracts. I don't want to get into the subject of whether this law has been passed or not. Also, I don't want to talk about whether it's grammatically correct, because I believe that in the text of the law whether it says "written" or "written" really won't make any better for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and you will agree that we are all representatives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that we are obliged to work in the interests of those who have sent us in this most legislative body of the Republic of Serbia. What I'd like to talk about is one contract signed in early February 2012. It is an example of the fact that several such contracts, unseriously accepted by the last, thank God last time, the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The loan contract is worth 300m euros. It is the creation of a serious infrastructure facility of the Republic of Serbia, and the contract has obliged the government of the Republic of Serbia to expropriate 30% of the land where the infrastructure facility is passing, and in the next six months it will do the expropriation and the other 70% of the land. Twice, a mistake was made by accepting and obliging and giving the instruments for such a contract. First, what is known to be in the 2012 budget, and the government of the Republic of Serbia knew there was no money for expropriation. The second mistake, the second foul that was made, is in the deadlines, because 56 days, but also six months is a very short deadline for the expropriation to be carried out and done and for the contractor to get into work. The government of the Republic of Serbia, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia were put under one such contract to pay for serious slanders, a serious compensation requirement that is measured by tens of millions of euros, by the irresponsibility of the one who made up such a contract, who signed such a contract on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and who signed it. What this Government of the Republic of Serbia did, responsibly accepting and realizing its job, was – firstly, it provided 784 million dinars in the 2013 budget to make this expropriation and to be carried out, because the previous government who accepted and signed this contract, knowingly breaking it in the beginning, because they knew that the money did not exist in the budget at that time. The second thing the government of the Republic of Serbia has done in agreement with the contractors, I am truly grateful to them, because they have accepted that they are doing this job on those shares where the expropriation is done and completed. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that is why a law like this has won its own physical finale in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. There are dozens of these contracts, hundreds of these contracts, international contracts, which have been concluded whether out of ignorance or with intent on cost and to the detriment of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So let's not do "written" or "written." Let's not do trivial things. Let's deal with the essence. What I only agree on is that any such law, any such agreement that will be signed and applied in the future, must pass through the control function of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. We must have passing times, as the SNS has introduced passing times for the most responsible people in the most responsible places in the Republic of Serbia, so there must be a transitional time for each law, for every contract. It must never again be allowed to waste budgets, deliberately accepted and signed contracts, even though it was known that there is no money for expropriation. Who's responsible for this? And it is not enough to say – so we paid our political price by losing the election. No, I don't. This is one contract that, due to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, with a great understanding of the other party's signatories, we managed to save dozens of millions of euros that we had to pay for the slanders. Tens of millions of euros we had to and should have paid for the damages and the slanders. Tens and hundreds of these contracts have been over the past 12 years. And not enough political price, you need to know who's responsible, who signed it, which congregation majority has accepted and nominated something like that. This law has to put an end to something like that. Such a law and taking control of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia must put an end to such behaviour as has been in the past 10-12 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14644	Thank you. Given that the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled single search, I ask whether the words of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Half-breeds? (Yes) National MP Zlata Djeric. The time remaining for the NS parliamentary group is five minutes and 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14645	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I won't waste my time, I'll be very brief. I just need to explain to the public Serbia, precisely because there is much controversy here about amendments relating to the term in writing or in writing, so it has now been given to this plenary debate in particular weight to remind, in the previous session of law-making, I was also an MP in the same MP group of NS, and I was the one who submitted the amendments constantly in all legislative proposals to the term written and written, saying that the same content of the concept was not written and written. All of these amendments rejected Mr. Dejan Soskovic, if you remember that debate when they were laws on the National Bank of Serbia and he had the courage, only after consulting his lecturers, to say it was right and to accept those amendments. So it's not some newspaper. It's important that the laws be written. They are brought before us and presented to us in writing. It's the content of the concept and that's what's important to say. Why do we insist on it, on accuracy, on regularity, on the language of the law? In this I always insist personally, as an MP, as a citizen, as a professor of language and literature, and on this professional side, because I expect our laws, as once did, to be an example of some world law. When translated, it is very important that this integral text be fully linguistically accurate and correct. Knowing Mr. Minister's extraordinary rhetorical skills, I know he'll understand and respect it. I like the fact that, simply without vanity, he had the courage to accept him from the previous government any legal proposal that he presented to us and brought and defended here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14646	Thank you. MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14647	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the end of today's day we can sublime all today's discussions, all the reasons for and against this law, all the criticism and we can bring some final judgment when it comes to this law. I just want to go back to a few things I said in the afternoon. First of all, I am sorry that the minister of justice explains this law and not the minister of foreign affairs. I think the foreign minister would be more useful here today than where he was yesterday. Keep going. When we talk about these laws and the arguments we've heard, we've heard that someone is also calling on some road construction contracts. I'm surprised you don't discuss it at the government meeting with Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, do you? I'm sure he would have taken you to his new 500,000-euro apartment to explain to you all how these things stand. And since you're wondering how much damage it's going to cause, how much damage it's going to cause from the announced highway, it's May 1st, that it's going to go the way that I and some of my colleagues are going to travel when it's built, and the road goes from Pojat to Preljina? What's with the road? Is it possible that there's been an expropriation here, and we all know it's not and there's already a credit arrangement being signed. Not only is it signed, it's also the scissors that will cut the tape in the election campaign. You know, it's not good for you to have one archaic to the opposition and the other to your coalition partners. When we talk about some of the other arguments we've heard, again the truth is, this law hasn't written DS. If she had written it, it would have been much better written, prepared and done. Finally, since this law and the debate on this law were also mentioned at the Palace, I will again quote you a beautiful folk proverb – "Whoever spits on the stars falls on his face." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14648	I am concluding a joint principle and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in points 8, 9, 10 and 12 of the agenda. I thank Minister Selakovic. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to conduct a joint single search on candidates' proposals for the selection of members of the Anti-Corruption Agency – item 13 of the agenda and the proposals for decisions referred to in points 14, 15 and 16 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the Parliament group, which is the details of which you have received in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on proposals for candidates for the selection of members of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee, which have been submitted by the authorising officers: the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, the Supreme Cassation Court, the State Audit Institution, the Trustee for Information on Public Information and Protection and Personality Data Protection and the Law Chamber of Serbia, the Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the Deputy Commissioner for Information From Public Meaning and Personality Data Protection, submitted by the Commissioner for Public Information Information and Personality Data Protection, the Proposal for a Decision on the Education of the Survey Committee to determine the fact of how the budget of the Republic of Serbia was spent on the territory of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohijau from 2000 to 2012, which the National MP Milovan Drec and the proposal for the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice in the Court of Justice in the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Republic. Do the proposings, or the proposing representatives, want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? So far, I have no record of hearings. No one's applying to me. Only now did Mr. Jaksic sign up. He's the first authority to press the button and sign up. You know I can't give a word to someone in the system if that someone doesn't sign up. The word is Mr. Jaksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14649	Ladies and gentlemen, I thought we'd first hear Mr Drecun's opening statement, president of the Kosovo Committee. Given that he is president of the Kosovo Committee, he is in some way the man in charge of introducing the issue. What is important and important to say on this subject is that we from the DSS in principle voted on the Committee on Kosovo, against him forming on this subject, given the importance of the moment of a fierce struggle, above all for Kosovo and Metohija. Unfortunately, it seems to me that Mr. President was under the impression, first of all, of certain media, agreed, made a proposal. We're not running away from all that. Even on the Kosovo Committee, which was held last time, I gave and insisted on such an important and important topic. What I must conclude is that it may be better that the Committee on Kosovo has spoken on several occasions, talked about these negotiations themselves, but where we are – we are here, we are not running away from the topic itself, and we are just looking forward to the fact that the survey board, given all the haranga that has happened, through, say, a patriotic robbery of people, above all in northern Kosovo, will have the opportunity to establish one clear and pure truth. Unfortunately, why is all this done? It is, above all, in view of the fact that there was a need for normalisation of the relationship between Kosovo and Serbia in Brussels in some way, and then, in all possible ways, to vomit more and more, Serbs, who have struggled fiercely, for more than 13 years, primarily for the state of Serbia and then for the naked survival. What's weird about all that? What was going on and how was it all moving? Apart from certain pro-European media, someone will say, in some ways, and pro-Albanian, that came first from an international crisis group, which has since 2000 with ugly words, writing and all other things started to spit on Serbs, above all, in northern Kosovo. Now I must remind you that the president of this international crisis group was none other than Martti Ahtisaari, the man whose plan is to make independent Kosovo in some way. Not only that, we had the opportunity and in later times to hear that in the same way, first of all, the people who fought for naked survival were called criminals in their own way, and about becoming the next system -- the more patriot you are, the more patriot you are, the more they kind of spit you out and talked about you all and everything. About, according to Matija Bećković, it became from what I am – the bigger the poet, the bigger my father is. What's behind all this later? Later we even had examples and stories, even one of the MPs, it seems to me that he is not present here, the former defence minister used to say – whenever someone from the DSS mentions Kosovo, I think what he's going to steal. I expect the former defence minister, given everything we've read in recent months, to apologize to the DSS. What's important and important about all this, and why is the DSS on target? Just for the following reasons, because it organised the resistance of Serbs in northern Kosovo, when a good part of the Serbian state's institution was leaving the premises. Let's just remember that the circuit executive council has moved to Kopalnik, the military and the police have left, and the university has moved, I think, to Kruševac. The DSS people just stopped... (President: Mr. Jaksic, just to ask you to return to the agenda, since it is the agenda of education of the board to control how the budget money of the Republic of Serbia is spent. ) And just as the DSS people were being targeted for what they were fighting to prevent the creation of an independent Kosovo. What else is important and important to say? It is important that there is no need to form a survey board, given that the authorities, that the police must and should do their job, that the judicial authorities should deal with it. What we had the opportunity to hear and read, is that two years ago, just to remind you, the arrest of Bojan Radovanovic called Massers, who was subsequently released as a witness to an associate. Look at the bizarreness, after that, simply none of those he said in the investigation were actually involved in a variety of activities, are in the court of law, given that man has powerful protectors, that these people have powerful protectors. Why, first of all, if anyone in this country suspects something was doing down there, why does the court, since there are all the authorities of the Serbian state down there, not start to take over their jobs? Someone's gonna say there's no organs down there. Let me remind you that just four months ago, our police in phantoms arrested Slavoljub Jovic. Thus, all people who have sinned in any way about the law can be made available in their own way. Perhaps in the context of all this we should think a little bit about the next thing, that, let's say, this assembly is forming a polling committee to finance certain media, where money comes from for these media and for certain emissions that are being broadcast, especially those that force and finance the creation of an independent Kosovo. Let's say that this assembly also forms the work of certain NGOs that we know their effect is primarily against the interests and the constitution of this state. Mr. Jaksic, just one more request. I don't mind forming all these committees, but that's not the topic of the agenda right now. Please, let's get back to the agenda. The agenda is forming... Mr. President, let me talk. (President: I can't let you talk because my task, according to the Rules of Procedure, is to take care of order at the session. That's exactly what I'm talking about. What else is important to say? We had the opportunity to look at it in our own way, to hear that a good part of the people who live, first of all, in Cosmet are actually accused that, just because they don't pay taxes to the government of Hashim Thaci, they're called criminals, smugglers or I don't know what names. What's the big deal? It is important to say that these people have not wronged the law of the Serbian state. These ten years, there is not one single man whom the Serbian state's investigative authorities have punished, arrested or detained because he did not pay taxes in a neat manner to the state of Serbia. It's important and important to say, Mr. President. Unfortunately, we now have a so-called. the common frontier. We see that the government budget of Hashim Thaci is fully full and I assume that salaries, pensions and everything else within the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo will be much stronger and stronger. I think it's all one topic that matters here. What we need to talk about and say is that through emissions, in particular of one such content and through various media, it says that the salaries or money of the taxpayers of the Serbian state are reportedly being spent unintendedly, that it is not in the spirit of what is needed and what is right. In view of that, we hear that the very figure being spoken of is increasing in its own way, multiplying, hiding from the eyes of the public, adding, which is simply not correct, is not right. We came to a figure that, above all, more than two billion dollars has been spent on Kosovo and Metohija since 1999. What's important is to say, we had a chance to adopt the budget, it's about four billion this year. That's what he's saying in his own mind. What is the ultimate goal, first of all, of stories like this? It is that the citizens of the Serbian state are, above all, disgusted by the KIM space, simply to say that criminals live downstairs, that they should not fight for that space and that they should let that space go to the Albanian side. This is what we have in these ten years the opportunity to hear from various pro-European media and from various MPs, above all political parties. Here, from this place, Mr. President, you should know that no one asks the question of how much it costs, i.e. what Kosovo and Metohija are worth. According to free, so-called Western elections, only the mining wealth of Kosovo and Metohija is valued at three and a half thousand dollars. I repeat, Mr. President, three and a half thousand dollars. I repeat, Mr. President, three and a half billion dollars. Given that you will rarely meet the real value of Kosovo and Metohija in the media, in the press or anywhere else, about this spiritual and other value I do not want to talk about...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14650	Mr. Jaksic, please return to the agenda. The subject of the agenda is almost none of what you were talking about today. I understand, but if you continue in such a way, then I will have to allow all MPs to speak on this subject of whatever they want about Kosovo and Metohija. This is not a free topic on Kosovo and Metohija, this is the establishment of a survey board, which should establish facts and the truth about spending budget money, which I think also supports the country's statehood and that Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia, because we control the spending of all Serbian citizens' budget money used in Kosovo and Metohija from 2000 to 2012. I have no objection and that next year we determine how it was spent in 2013 and every following year, but I ask you to talk here about the education of this committee and why it is good for the Republic of Serbia. I understand, and I let you say everything you said, but I'm asking you to get back on the agenda and talk about it. I'll give you back the minute I took from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14651	Mr. President, I think you only took one minute and a half of my time. I'm just talking about the subject itself. Why am I saying this and saying this? You were not present on the Committee on Kosovo and you do not know what the real motives of forming this committee were, you do not know the reasons why we formed them. We said there was a way to determine how funds were spent from 2000 to 2012. I think it's a broad topic and I'm very pleased as an MP that it can be determined, seen, examined and demassed on the spot all those stories and they're talking about the abuse itself. I wanted to and I want to say that it might be better for the police and the judiciary to deal with this issue, given the large number of affairs and all that is happening in the state of Serbia. I think it's a better way, with more success, and I think that we could figure out in the right way what's going on down there and if it's happening, and I don't think the methods and means spent down there are over 1% of Serbia's GDP. With only the Development Bank in mind, or, let's say, "Serbigas", we see that it's a minor part of the funds. I absolutely agree, although we have not voted in favour of this decision, given that Serbia is waiting for much more important topics, I believe that tomorrow the party will firstly delegate me to one such committee, on the spot to determine everything that is happening. That's why, Mr. President, I was talking about Bojan Radovanovic, who was arrested somewhere in 2012. He was later taken in his own way as an associate witness. Unfortunately, it didn't move from there. The people he was supposed to point to, that there was a problem with money, they just have powerful protectors and there's no such thing as a agenda. What we can also point out is that a large media harangus was created around how money was spent. I'm glad this survey board will come to the scene, look at all the facilities, how it was done, who was doing, what he was doing, what he was taking, if he was taking, and just get to the real truth. What I was saying was, I think it's the right background, Mr. President, because just by talking about the polling committee, people, citizens of Serbia, should be disgusted by Kosovo and Metohija, simply saying -- we will not fight for those people who are dealing with crime down there. I think that's the goal of all these media harangs that, unfortunately, for more than 12 years have shaken our media and political scene. I personally hope, given the funds that have been spent, that I will have the opportunity to know exactly how and for what year it has been taken, how much the funds have been spent and I believe that as a member of the survey board, I will somehow be the one to direct the entire survey board, which, above all, should be on the face of the place to come down, to see where the funds went and what mass of funds it is. Given that, there's one thing I have to say today. One little dyspression, if possible. For example, less funds are being spent on health care today when it comes to all health institutions in the area of Kosovo and Metohija within a month, than was spent by the Clinical and Hospital Centre in Pristina in 1999. All this says that the funds, money and money that the state of Serbia singles out in its own way are not great in relation to the very value it gives, but given what is going on, we will absolutely participate in the work of the survey board and in our own way demasticate a single hack that has been present here for the last few years. In the end, Mr. President, I must repeat again, as when Sipyon once spoke in the Roman Senate – but Cartagena must fall! I must tell you that the value of Kosovo and Metohija's mining wealth is three and a half thousand billion. I repeat, the value of Kosovo and Metohija's mining wealth is three and a half thousand billion. I'm saying this first of all, given that such a media image was created that it was a little bit known or a little wanted to talk in the state of Serbia. Thank you, Mr. President, and you owe me a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14652	You have two minutes and 15 seconds left. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Aligrudic answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14653	Mr. President, I'm reporting as per article 27. With all due respect and all due respect to you as chairman, I must draw your attention that in the presentation of the MPs there may always be some depression, especially when there are such topics. It's really necessary to release the entire speech of one who's authorized at a certain point, so that he can round the whole thing up and say the point. The point here was very clear. Therefore, there is a particular motive for the applicant of the proposal for a committee of inquiry, and that motive must be interpreted. He must be the subject of this debate, and when the motive of this kind of thing is interpreted, he allows a certain degree of dyspression. My opinion is that you didn't do it on purpose, and I want to know that you didn't do it on purpose, but just maybe because you didn't listen very carefully to the relationship of the digression with the basic subject. Thank you. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure! )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14654	Of course, just to give my answer to the MP Milos Aligrudic. So, I tried very carefully to listen to the presentation of the previous speaker, not wanting in any way to deny the right, which was seen in the end, because he really took advantage of almost 18 minutes of the time he was entitled to as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. I've always allowed six or seven minutes, and it seems to me eight, in which I haven't given a single word or remark, letting the MP speak and round up his thought, just by respecting what you're saying, it's a right to crack. On several occasions, however, we have been quite detached from the topic we are dealing with, because this is a very precise topic – spending budget money over a certain period of time, and in this case even the formation of a survey committee that deals with it. I wouldn't go into a dozen other topics that are open. I just asked the MP and he finally did it, he reduced his debate to what was the subject of this agenda and we continue to work on it. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14655	Articles 106 and 107. Rules of Procedure, he's been broken. I'll just take a minute. So, despite all the best will and respect I have for MP Jaksic, I think this was outrageous, because of the decibels that were fired in this room. I know that all MPs now agree with me, and maybe they won't tell. But believe me, this wasn't possible to listen to, was it because of a bug in the microphone system? I doubt it. Either because Ambassador Jaksic wanted to enter a higher degree of emotion or because I don't know what. So I really have to point out that this was a 20-minute torture where you couldn't hear it, and I really wanted to hear everything Ambassador Jaksic said. But I just couldn't do it, I was exposed to 20 minutes of hitting the decibel brain by MEP Jaksic. You must react in these situations or through a reminder, that the MP is moving away from the microphone, or through the installation of a system of regulators that you could reduce the tone. I'm really saying this on purpose. I am absolutely not talking about the content of the presentation, but simply, believe me, I am saying this as a man who wanted to hear what Ambassador Jaksic was going to say. I don't see why it's too controversial to be in a situation like this. Especially since the subject is very serious. How do you think that gets to someone who doesn't have hearing damage in this room? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14656	Mr. Palalic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Before that, let me just say, that's a question that needs to be taken care of, what are we going to do. I will consult with the technical service, as there are different tones for all MPs, as well as for the presentation of certain ones. I wouldn't take it upon myself to give a subjective assessment, which is loud, and what isn't, sometimes the MP in a loud speech wants to make something else. I agree with you in this case and I've had a noise. I agree with that. But it's not something the Rules of Procedure treats as such. Otherwise, I would simply ask all the MPs to find some optimal distance from the microphone so that we could follow each other. National MP Jovan Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14657	It's a violation of dignity. Mr. President, I think you had to react to the previous speaker's statement that Mr. Marko Jaksic spoke with his exposure in such a way that it was torture. You know what, maybe for someone to torture is what he was expressing himself, and he was giving political attitudes that he disagreed with. But the qualified speech of the People's MP in the National Assembly, as a torture, is a profound insult to this house and to all the MPs of the people. I don't think that's acceptable. If one cannot listen to different political views, he has the opportunity to deny it to himself. But to qualify torture, because we differ in attitudes, because we indicate the failures of previous authorities. Please, I would really take this opportunity if we didn't allow such attitudes here. Otherwise, we can qualify differently and what the predecessors did about their policy. We'll never do that. We want a dignified debate to be conducted. Mr. Marko Jaksic said, and presented the reasons why it is not good at the moment to form a polling committee, an important moment for Serbia. He made all the arguments very detailed and precise. If it's for someone to torture, please respond next time and protect the dignity of the National Assembly, that it's absolutely unacceptable. A long time ago, such a qualification, we have not heard a speech from one of the MPs. At the same time, someone qualified it as torture, some MPs shut their ears. Gentlemen, if you can't listen, come out, simply if you don't like someone's attitudes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14658	I hope that none of the MPs will qualify in any way intentionally and this has not really worked here in Parliament. Not wanting to be anyone's lawyer, but Mr. Stefanovic just, I have to say, clearly fenced himself that he didn't mean the content of what Mr. Jaksic said. That's why I didn't think that in any way he wanted to disqualify the content of the text, to say the contents of Mr. Jaksic's speech, which I don't think I would allow it anyway. I think we've discussed here more about the technical matter of setting up, whether the man was too close to the microphone or not. Mr. Jaksic didn't do it on purpose. So I'm pretty sure what he said was meant to say and he said it, only if he was a few inches away from the microphone, maybe it would be better for people in the O.R. TV solves it, so the people who follow it in direct transmission don't feel the difference. It might be easier for us in the O.R. to listen. But it wasn't an evil intention and I don't think Mr. Stefanovic said it for bad purposes. I sincerely hope he didn't say that out of evil intent. The word has the People's MP Marko Jaksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14659	Mr. President, I don't think you need to be Mr. Stefanovic's lawyer. If he thinks torture is what I said as an MP here, talk, I think it's one side of the medal. I think Borko Stefanovic himself should have said whether he was bothered by the content of his speech or bothered by his technique. If it's the contents of the speech, then I can say something else and more. Let's say for me, as a man living downstairs in the space of Cosmeta, let's say four years' work, primarily the political party itself, and he himself is a torture for the way of life first of all us living down there. If Mr. Stefanovic thought it was a technique itself, I think he should say it himself, not you as his lawyer.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14660	So, as I said, I had no intention, nor was I anyone's lawyer, and Mr. Stefanovic said it, which is why I repeated it, because I am obliged to hold a session. If he hadn't said that, I could have warned him that the term torture wasn't based on your speech. That's all I intervened for. He made it clear he didn't think in any way about the content of what you said. So I have to say it for the truth. Here, you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14661	So I don't have a lawyer in this room. A truly completely pointless debate about something that is so technical, the most well-intentioned, and you see what it turns into. This shows a very immature relationship to the subject, to colleagues. So, I'll repeat I said no in terms of content. So I repeat the seventh time, not in terms of content. Anything MP Jaksic says I respect, listen, I can agree, I don't have to, but absolutely not in that sense, gentlemen, I repeat the seventh time. I have pointed out the need or that a technical lack should be removed if there is one or that the MP will adjust the power of his verbal expression to the hall in which we are, but also the subject, if you will. Twenty minutes, we can all yell, maybe that's how we'll get better results. I'm not talking about content. That's whose policy it is, I'll talk about it when we president of the assembly say why we're building this polling committee. I don't know why we're nervous. I'm just talking about it, don't swallow the microphone if you want to make a statement to the Assembly or to the nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14662	The word is Mr. Djuric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14663	I'm advertising Article 27. I think that this inadmissible debate that lasts more than ten minutes, you allowed your intervention or your comments, Mr Stefanovic. First of all, you're changing the rules for holding a session from session to session. Let us establish a rule on how many times you warn the People's Messenger to return to the matter before you take the measures provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Is that once, twice. You have warned Mr. Jaksic three times, then you have given the right to replicate the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Is that allowed in the congregation or not allowed? All I'm asking is that the same rules apply at every session of the National Assembly. Of course we went too far then. In the end, we're really talking about regulators, mixers and whether television can solve the problem in one way, whether someone needs to swallow a microphone or get away from the microphone. Still, this is too serious a subject for such a thing. It's okay, there's one, two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, but this has been going on for more than 10 minutes. I think we would avoid all these problems if we had clear rules – one warning, two warnings, when it comes back to the topic. Now you've established a rule that allows for five, six minutes, right? That's what I realized. So, from now on, five, six minutes can be talked past the subject, if the speaker comes back after that, then it's okay. Until you establish those rules, you'll have situations like this all the time. The atmosphere in the congregation will depend on our mood, on how nervous the day is, or how important the subject is. I don't think that's good for anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14664	I didn't say that I let anyone say anything for five or six minutes, I said that in five or six minutes, I estimate whether a man is away from the subject or using the way he wants to present the subject is represented. As I have been warned several times by other MPs, it takes time for the MP to express his thought. I can't know in 14 seconds what way he's going to talk about the subject he's talking about. I've said five or six minutes indicative, but if I see anyone getting away from the subject, I warn him. Since Mr. Jaksic was constantly touching the subject, he did not come out of the context of the topic, I let him talk. If he had talked about something completely different, I would have interrupted him. But I warned him when I thought his exit from the topic could take him in another direction and then I'd have to take his word away. I also agree that this is an important topic and I don't think we should talk about technical matters, but I wanted no topic to remain irresponsible. So I don't want anyone to think we skipped something. National MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go. It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14665	Article 107, I point to the injury you committed by not warning Borislav Stefanovic. His exposure, however soft the tone was said, contained a dangerous sting. It is therefore impossible to use the form of a breach of the Rules of Procedure to further insult other MPs. I understand that in the heat of the discussion on the subject, when we appear in the order in which we are reported or in replicas, we can have such insights about the swallowing of microphones, howling, yelling at microphones, unadjusted tones, to achieve the effect. But on the occasions when it responds to the injury of the Rules of Procedure, it is seen as the most direct insult. I beg you, you should have reacted when Mr. Borislav Stefanovic spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14666	I now ask all MPs to return to the topic and discuss what is the essence of this agenda proposal. Mr. Jaksic, on what basis are you answering? Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14667	I think Mr. Stefanovic has spoken in an ugly way. Apparently, with one story about me swallowing a microphone. As for the insult, we can all say a lot about each other here, but I don't think this Parliament deserves it. I can tell Mr Stefanovic on a thousand occasions that he is a traitor, that this, however, is not what I want, given that this is the highest home of Serbian representatives... (President: What you're saying is more than inappropriate. )......................................................................................................... that we should not be offended here, and therefore I call on Mr Stefanovic to be cultural, civilized, polite, and there is no need to call one another and insult him in such an inappropriate way. As far as I'm concerned, you see for yourself, Mr. President, that I don't want to use ugly expressions, and that's why I expect Mr. Stefanovic to conduct dialogue in a civilized way.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14668	The MP, Mr. Djuric, has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14669	This is what I'm talking about, Mr. Stefanovic. So, Art. 107th and 27th. You let someone say they accuse other MPs of being traitors. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: Are you deaf, have you heard him say it? I hope you hear well, unlike me, who am deaf, so that you will sanction this behavior and throw it out of the bench, which is contrary to the Rules of Procedure. (President: Please do not throw it to the People's MP. I'm just asking you to respect the Rules of Procedure. You have punished hard and hard in this congregation for a lot of milder words. It is unacceptable to use words – a traitor. For any MP, no matter which political party they belong to. I ask you to apply the Rules of Procedure consistently. You've quite mildly warned Mr. Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14670	I completely agree with you. And I find it unacceptable for anyone to call anyone a traitor, and that is why I call not to use such terms in this congregation. Mr. Babic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14671	I'm advocating the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. I'm really not in favour of speaking in this room in a mythic tone, nor am I speaking in this room in a language of microphone swallowing, nor am I to abuse the Rules of Procedure, because anyone who in this room raises the Rules of Procedure and asks for a word in the Rules of Procedure or the chairman is obliged to give him a word, but I agree with you, Mr. President, that we must not, through such pointless discussions, refer to and call on all colleagues, on behalf of the SNS and the SNS parliamentary group. We will not participate in such a debate and ask you to return to the agenda and the next speaker in the order of authorised representatives gets the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14672	As an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, MP Zoran Ostojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14673	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, people are watching us. These days, the whole of Serbia was awaiting the outcome of dialogue in Brussels. Last night, we learned that the dialogue had failed. The atmosphere was created to depend on the fate of the country. Probably a lot depends on it, and I'm asking you, if we're talking about Kosovo, to talk about what's the topic. The lack of arguments is often compensated in two ways – either by shouting and shit or by silence. Mr. Drecun, you have here suggested the formation of a polling committee, because that's how we voted on the KIM Committee. You yourself signed the proposal, although during the preparation of this proposal you asked us, the other members, if we wanted to sign it. I really don't understand why you didn't explain this in front of the ruling majority at first, so we could supplement you if it were necessary, but you allowed this debate to take place? It's your fault. What you want to say in the end, no one can take that right away from you, as a proprietor. But I think it was your obligation to speak in the beginning, so that we wouldn't have this kind of patriotism out here by someone who might feel affected by the formation of a survey board. Tax bonds paid 500m euros annually through the budget for everything that works as the rest of Serbia's state in Kosovo. It's a 10% pension increase. And so for 13 years. We are all witnessing that everything has happened with this money, and not just with money for Kosovo, and with other money. You are proud of the fight against corruption and crime, and those 500m euros, which are large indications that they were spent in vain, have barely pushed through pressure. And it's good that you finally agreed, because your key argument in the debate was, I remember, to break you, because you were against forming a polling committee, so what will Vukic tell you if you don't want to form a survey board to see how money is spent in Kosovo, and here it's your main campaign, and then you gave in and voted with one exception. That's why I think the story of the robbery, of the non-intentional spending of the funds, of the dozens of apartments that someone owns, will also come across a cross-examination of property, not only in Serbia but also in Kosovo, so all of this will be revealed. So, that story about the protection of someone's interests that have been coping with budget money, smuggling, etc., you first should not allow to defend yourself so-called. Patriotism, under quotes. It's not an LDP job. If you remember, we also proposed in the budget debate that the State Auditor must control the money that goes to Kosovo, to make it mandatory for him, not when his computer throws out what to control, so you refused the amendment with an explanation – the State Auditor is obliged to control it anyway. Yes, and the state auditor is in charge, and the police and the judiciary have been in debt all these years and where are we? We have come to know that this money of taxpayers, citizens of Serbia, has been spent, so the argument - it is the duty of the authorities, the prosecution and the police to do so, because they did not. When state services and the institutions of the system are scheduled, then a polling committee is formed in the Assembly. And this is one of those situations. Fortunately, survey committees are not formed in the Assembly every day or every week. It's extremely rare. That's what happens, you'll admit, through our short parliamentary practice, only for a few years. So, as you sow, you reap it now. Yesterday you came back, state representatives, but representatives of the ruling majority, president and deputy prime minister, with a double defeat, gentlemen. One is defeating Serbs in Kosovo, because there is no agreement with Pristina, which means that from now on, their fate is more in their hands...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14674	I just have to warn you that we're leaving the topic. So, a broader debate on Kosovo will be possible in this parliament, but at this point we are talking about forming a polling committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14675	If you had been a little patient, you would have seen me come back to the topic faster than Mr. Jaksic. Now, we're talking about money and I keep talking about money, because this is about money here, the money of people who look at us, the money of people who pay taxes, which we are legally giving to a group of people called the Government to spend that money for four years. I'm talking about it. Did the deputy prime minister here say three, four times that if we don't get a date that it won't be for wages, that it won't be for pensions, that it won't be for the social, that European integration depends on life in this country. Is that money? Yeah. That's what I'm talking about. We've experienced what we've experienced. So far, it looks like there's no dialogue. How it's going to affect everyday life, it's an argument to tell me why we have to form a survey board. Here, I'll be back on the subject. So, when the government appointed two hospital directors a week ago, Radenkovic, in Kosovo, the old directors who had extended the term of office from a party that boasts patriotism, but not exactly to see how money was spent, that government, your government, gentlemen of the ruling majority, could and should have known the consequences it could bear. What kind of message is that to the international community? What kind of message is that to the public of Serbia? After all, you hear now that those who are looking forward to the date will not be, who are looking forward to retirement, who are looking forward to Serbia sinking into poverty, where foreign investments will bypass Serbia in a wide port, and soon, the highways, which are looking forward to making young people run away from this country, and today they say -- fortunately, nothing will happen from the date. You need to know the consequences of those decisions you've made lately, holding two policies, European and anti-European, one by one, and trying to hold that reserve, when you hold the reserve, you encourage various types of extremists, from those who want to make SAO Krajina, to be stronger, so that never such a polling committee will be formed, in order to continue what's called the jargon patriotic robbery. With such a policy, you encourage those other extremists, so let's call them extremists, who will eventually remain the only solution for some nights for some special forces to take over some municipalities, hospitals, etc. And force people to exodus. It's as if it's in someone's interest to see this happen, as if those who are in the interest of that happening have been able to, since the great announcement of a triumphant return from Brussels prevent it from happening in Brussels? I don't want to be cynical in these difficult moments for the country. I remind you, who said when the Deputy Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister left, as soon as he left, it means we have a better offer ahead of us. Well, we had a better offer to make that nothing happened. I really want to reach an agreement with Pristina and I really want Serbia to get a date, but the way you do, starting with that, Mr Drecun, that you haven't explained this, because it's very important for the citizens of Serbia who are watching us, who are upset about what is happening, who are upset about the robbery of their money, that you explain why this polling committee needs to be formed, but we from the LDP, as you will tomorrow go to northern Kosovo to explain, if that happens, tomorrow or in two years why Ahtisaari's plan should be applied in northern Kosovo. The effect when Vucic says it or you say it is much bigger than when I say it or Bojan Đurić. That's why I resent your silence, because when you keep quiet then the ones we've had the opportunity to hear both here and in northern Kosovo and possibly in Pristina are waved and encouraged. Yes, we need to determine what the competent institutions haven't done over the past 13 years, to see how that money is spent and what's controversial about it, what's unpatriotic about it. All that contributes to strengthening institutions in this country is probably the greatest patriotism. It's not patriotism, it's not about larding and talking about who's bigger Serbian and measuring here, it's about patriotism leading a policy that will lead to young people not leaving this country, it's about some other young people coming here to live. Unfortunately, as we can see from the consequences of Serbia, I would say that for decades there has been a patriotic policy, but there is a fundamental difference between, let me say, us from the LDP and all of you who brought this Constitution in 2006. What's patriotism? Patriotism is that people's money is not being stolen, neither in Kosovo nor in Valjevo. We now have the subject of a polling committee on money going to Kosovo, not through the Ministry of Kosovo. After all, who was all the minister in the last 13 years, how much does the polling committee cover? No one from the LDP. There's health care money, there's school money, there's infrastructure money. It's a lot of money for a poor country like this. Instead of saying, it's top patriotism, you, not me, you keep quiet and allow those who want to cover their tracks, to teach us patriotism lessons here. It's not just you from the SNS, it's you from the SPS and the others who are there, but they'll be quiet. I remind you that you never explained why you named these people. You're hosting your staff as well as you can. I know the case of a woman who told someone, I'm not going to mention now whether it was SNS or SPS, but certainly the ruling majority, that a woman would like to work, is from the inside, in the office, so they hired her at the office. They could've been at the Bureau for making bills. There's a lot of institutions. Such a human policy, which continued when it comes to Kosovo's north, has led to these consequences, threatening you in the north to build some SAO Krajina. Is this a responsible policy? We told you that we wanted to support the government in those dialogue talks, because we were ultimately the first to advocate dialogue. But what can we support if we don't know what's being negotiated there? Should we say it's too bad you didn't sign or say it's a good thing you didn't sign? We don't know if he's okay or not because we don't know what's on the agenda. We would certainly like this agony, this problem with Kosovo to be resolved in this way and to enter into some normal relations by respecting the Constitution, by passing constitutional law, and how all your lawyers can creatively interpret, but we do not know what to support except the principled dialogue. That's why we don't have any dilemma about this. Let's start by seeing how that money was spent. The various ministers from various parties were, after all, your government. I hope by 2012, Mr Dracun, that it also applies to 2012. A piece and your authorities are caught here. As this report's being given birth, we talked about it in November, and here we are in April. As soon as we've established it, we'll be in the summer. It wouldn't be fair to those who were before you in past governments, if we were dealing only with the DSS somehow, because they held those resistors and Mr. Vulin was being amnested. I deeply hope that some of the contracts from December last year will also come before the Committee of Auditors in 2012. These are advance contracts, about 100%, etc. Of course we're for this poll committee. What I was talking about would have been much better, as Mr Dracun was a hero from Koshar, a war reporter from Slobi's time, could explain to those who believed him then, as I will believe him when he went to northern Kosovo to explain what the state's summit agreed on, because I deeply hope that this government and the president will be at the level of historical responsibility that they face, not to experience two defeats, to stop European integration and to leave Serbs in Kosovo at the free assessment of the government in Pristina, what is applied from the Ahtisaari plan and what is not applied. If we had been involved in making Ahtisaari's plan, maybe he'd be better than he is now. Besides, you've never announced that people know what's been offered. I'm saying it more for the public. Ahtisaari's plan no longer exists. It was valid as long as Kosovo's supervised independence existed and it ended last summer. Ahtisaari's plan is part of the Constitution. So if we weren't able to be open to the Assembly about these rounds of dialogues in Brussels, and in this way and that openness, we might be able to get support from those whose support you didn't expect, perhaps those whose support you didn't need, perhaps more important is DSS support than LDP, that's your assessment. You may be right after all, but we have a responsibility to the people who voted for us and those people want to live in a better country. You've won more in the election, you've formed a government and I ask you to behave in accordance with the responsibility that lies ahead of you in this case, and when it comes to the overall Kosovo policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14676	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milovan Dracun, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14677	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, twisting facts and half-truths can be an acceptable method of political action for certain individuals or political structures. That doesn't mean you have to deal with that mode of action. The truth is, it should be said that I was not on the Odobra for Kosovo and the Metohija against the formation of the Survey Committee, but I supported it immediately after the initiative of my colleague who proposed the establishment of the Committee. One member of the SNS Committee for the reasons he explained was not for the establishment of the Survey Committee. I can't understand how I kept it quiet and how I kept it quiet. It was expected that a fellow member of the Kosovo Committee who submitted a proposal for the establishment of the Committee of Auditors, submitted a formal proposal as an MP or that a group of MPs would do so so that we could go into the process of forming the Committee of Auditors as we are now doing. He could have submitted a formal proposal, too, because he voted for the establishment of the Survey Committee, as I recall, so he kept quiet all the time and could have been celebrated in such a way that he wouldn't keep his mouth shut. That's why after a while, since we voted most of the votes in favour of a proposal for the establishment of the Survey Committee, I decided to submit a formal proposal as chairman of the Committee. Secondly, as far as Mr. Vukic is concerned, the public will very well assess who did what in defending vital state interests in Kosovo and Metohija. The Serbian Progressive Party, led by President Vukic, seeks to protect as much as possible in the inherited extremely difficult situation, defending vital state interests, enables the survival of the Serbian people and its prosperity. In that sense, I think the role of Mr. Vukic and the SNS is quite clear. We will certainly explain what we are doing to Serbs in the north and Serbs south of Ibra and all citizens of Serbia, because we are doing to defend our vital state and national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14678	The word is made by MP Marko Jaksic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14679	I want to say that just before my fellow MP, Mr Ostojić seemed a little nervous, a little bit unsatisfactory because of this failure in Brussels. As for us Serbs from the space of Cosmet, we are absolutely satisfied with this outcome. What we think and what we want to say is that it would be a kind of capitulation. As far as we're concerned, and regardless of one anxiety my colleague showed, I want to tell him that he's swallowing a microphone like one of my fellow MPs told me before. What I mean to point out is that it's very ugly to say that we need to expect some nest, some strong formations and forces. I don't think it's good or nice in its own way. Especially should you not speak to your people like that. As far as the Survey Committee is concerned, at last session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee, I first asked for it to be formed, to work on it and I asked and I think the president remembers it. We at the DSS don't run away from the Bureau at all. On the contrary, we look forward to showing on the spot how money was spent, especially what was going on and what was going on. Therefore, I would also like to say that we are not running away from it and are looking forward to all of us together, especially me and counterpart Ostojic, hopefully being on that Committee, and to explore on the spot what happened to the money of the taxpayers of the Serbian state.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14680	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14681	I'm not nervous, but I'm not happy because the dialogue ended successfully. I think I'm a normal man who can't be happy if there's something going on that's not in the interest of the state and the citizens. I know and I believe that there were people who were happy when the Rambuje talks failed, who were happy to begin the bombing. I kind of don't belong in those groups. I think they're before for some special facilities. We have been chosen here to represent the interests of the citizens who have chosen us and if the viewers who are watching us now rejoice and it is a massive thrill that this ended as it ended in Brussels, then it is doubtless that MP Jaksic and his party will break in the next elections. I think the mood of those who look at us is exactly the opposite of Jaksic's, but ultimately, history will judge it. Mr. Drecun, I just resented you not explaining the formation of a survey board here at the session. I didn't say that you didn't vote for, indeed, but I don't have to remind you, that we're bothering our colleagues, the public, that the formation of this polling committee was clouded by the situation that we had to read at one session of the committee and the stenographic notes from the previous one, etc., because you tried to present the KIM Committee's decision as an initiative which does not oblige the Assembly to form a survey board, although it was clear from everything that happened at that session that was not an initiative, but a proposal from the KIM Committee to form this survey committee. I don't want to get in the middle of this with you. I just resented it, because in the end, you're not the one who suggested it, and you said, "Do you want me to, I'll stay, to sign the proposal?" I said, "I will." You've never offered me anything. If we'd all signed, that would have been better for all of us. Since you took it upon yourselves, that's why I expected you to explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14682	Mr. Dracun, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14683	Col. Ostojić, the truth is, yes, I offered that anyone who wanted from the board members to sign this proposal, however, the day I taught it, there was no one in the assembly, there was no session. You're saying someone's clouded the situation. The Committee shall submit initiatives or proposals, both. It has the exact same weight, but neither of them obliges the president of the National Assembly to proceed in the process of creating a committee of inquiry until a formal proposal is submitted by MPs, not a member or chairman of a committee or a group of MPs. In order to avoid further clouding the situation, as you say, as chairman of the board, I have agreed to submit a formal proposal as MPs. I think I deserve a confession, not a criticism. As for the stenogram you're talking about, I got the record from the service board that made the mistake, because instead of the proposal she put the initiative on and I signed that record, without looking at the stenogram, counting that the service that guarantees that the record is true to the stenogram and that's what we've fixed. I don't see any problem with that. I think the procedure for forming a survey board has been going very well so far. I waited, counting, to see if any of the other members or those who initiated the board had submitted a formal proposal, so that we wouldn't race, and when I saw that it wasn't there, I submitted a proposal. I did not succumb to public pressure, but I do have a colleague who said I have succumbed to the pressure of some media on the formation of a survey board to say that I am under daily pressure from Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, who bomb me with materials, documentation, information about the alleged non-intentional spending of funds. I respect the opinion of the public and the opinion of the media, but just forming a survey board is the best way to determine the truth, and that was the only way I was managed when I submitted this formal proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14684	The word has been issued by MP Borislav Stefanovic, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14685	Dear President, dear fellow Members of the People, I must present a mild genealogy of this case. The previous speaker said several things that confirm our common desire to form a body in the Serbian Parliament that will carry out a control post towards spending public finances in Kosovo and Metohija from 2000 to today. I don't think it's correct and it's not right to put things out in a way that doesn't match the truth about who initiated it, who suggested it and who decided. We've had this debate ten times. This debate is barren. She doesn't have any direction or sense. There's no power, except for some pointless mutual debauchery. What is a fact is that the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija has made almost a unanimous decision to form a polling committee and the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, which has given that information to the president of the Nebojsa Stefanovic Assembly, who has placed today's Assembly on the establishment of a survey committee on the spending of funds in Kosovo and Metohija, public finances, the public dinar of all Serbian citizens from 2000 to today. I accidentally suggested that it be done on the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. You could have been a colleague too. Could've been anyone who was there. I am so glad that we have achieved a truly almost complete unity. The motives are different. Why does this body matter? I remind you that at that time there was a very popular television show, to say documentary, research show, so some have tried to accuse us of DS and some other colleagues of being a motive for forming a survey board. I have to say, I think that a lot of what's been put out on that show is, in my humble opinion, true and I think that the show is quality, good and well done in the right direction. The truth doesn't like everyone, but even then I said to the board, and I say now to the distinguished colleagues why would we have to form this body, among other things, and because some things and the Assembly have to do, among other things, and because we were chosen by citizens to keep an eye on these things, to keep an eye on, to keep an eye on public finances. Too many words have been thrown out, too many lies, too many passions, too many flat rates about where money goes in Kosovo and Metohija. But there was a lot of truth. Who's going to figure out what's true, the prosecution, the judiciary? When? Isn't today when we don't know if we'll be courted in Mitrovica or not? Isn't today when we don't know if that prosecutor is going to be sitting in Raska? So I think we should all take this initiative seriously. The Serbian Parliament may, unfortunately, become the only, however, the highest state body to look into how money has been spent in Kosovo and Metohija, and there is no angel, believe it and there is no one to get dirty, I'm sure and they are all guilty, no matter what parties they are from, because they are bound by brotherhood and unity in stealing. It binds them with a great understanding of the depths of their pockets. These people from whatever parties, whatever the afiliacies are, whatever Quasipatriot initiatives they use as a cloak are enemies of the country's interests and interests of its citizens, especially those in Kosovo and Metohija. That's why we of the DS have proposed the formation of a survey board. The Bureau should paint the faithful face of this assembly. He should be led by the opposition. The president of the polling committee must be from the opposition party and we are not running for anyone from the DS, I must say immediately, but also say that I am asking this Assembly to take care that the election of the president of the polling committee does not put us in a position to keep our goat safe from cabbage. Be careful, gentlemen, who you're members of, whom you choose. Don't embarrass yourself when we're doing this. Otherwise, the survey board will help. He won't be able to solve all the problems. He will help the public, the citizens, the MPs, the assembly to see what was really going on there. The Committee of Auditors is tasked with submitting a report to the Assembly. He's not armed to file that report. It can also be someone in the next congregation, it is very important to say. And the way things are, that's how it's gonna be, gentlemen. He'll report to another congregation. As many of us as we will be, it will be decided by the citizens of Serbia. What I'm sure is that the people who are sitting on that Survey Committee would have to do a few things. First of all, they would have to see where the money was spent for apartments that people had never received and buildings that never existed in Kosovo and Metohija, to investigate where the earthquake funds went, for the operation of houses, schools and other public buildings that were never done in Kosovo and Metohija. To determine where the salary money went, for an administration that never worked in its offices. To determine where the funds went from the abolished VAT, the fictitious placement of goods, excises, in northern Kosovo and Metohija, which was financed by the direct turbo-patriotic dizziness of this people, the destruction of its future. And when you tap your finger into that hornet's nest, be sure, you'll get a hard answer and a curse, and an invitation to Lazarus's dinner and everything, as per the recipe. So I pray, indeed, for the future moves of the Committee of Auditors, I pray for understanding, I pray for patience, I pray for seriousness, because everyone who is invited has a legal obligation to respond and to come to this Survey Committee. All the committees of inquiry so far, unfortunately, have been the subject of ridicule, ridicule in our public. Almost none achieved a significant result, including Vucicev, the famous Survey Committee. That's what we should try not to happen now. The Ankate Committee is very important, not because there is pressure on some shows, but because there is pressure on the interests of Serbian citizens living in collective centres in Kosovo and Metohija, while during that time the party apartments are divided, double salaries are received, fairies are built in Budva and are sitting on a yacht and in apartments in London. From what? Of those zero euros? Nothing's been spent. It is 200 billion and billions of euros worth of Kosovo and Metohija in mining wealth. Why don't you dig it up in 15, 20 years? In four years, how many were in power? Eight as long as we were, or five as long as we were, depends on which party you're on when you judge us? Depends on which party you're from. So I think this is a very important thing. It's a very big subject. It shows the seriousness of this congregation. I am grateful to President Stefanovic for putting it on the agenda and it is completely irrelevant, indeed completely, who is to blame and why it has not happened before, as I think it is relevant that the Assembly Committee has had to act faster towards the president of the Assembly. I also believe that this is not the place or time to assess our previous steps on Kosovo and Metohija. I'm sure the state summit, as it is now called, will honor our presence, so we'll exchange reviews. It'd be my turn. Of course, those who rejoiced in the collapse of the Brussels negotiations yesterday, something tells me they will soon be disappointed. So these people could already learn not to fly. I don't know how long it takes. That's the first one. Second. Whatever decision it is, it will be very difficult, it will be unpopular, it will be full of holes, it will be full of dissatisfaction for this people. But some holes and dissatisfactions lead to deeper holes or dissatisfaction, and some water, however, into the future and perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14686	Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14687	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unfortunately, it has happened this way and it may not be the time to discuss this topic, but simply, the examination of the spending of budget funds going to Kosovo and Metohija is a great interest in the survival of Serbs in the KIM area. Personally, when I became an MP, I was one of the first to analyse some of the spending of some of the funds and insisted on the Committee, as much as it is in his authority, to request and examine something that was going on in the past, how much we were able to do, how much data we got. And I'm simply accused of being a traitor, of attacking someone who's a patriot, of not being a moment. I think it's time. It's always a time, because we need to know if it's true that it all went in the right direction, and when you go down there, then you see that there are no effects and you see that there are still folk cuisines down there, you see that citizens still live miserablely. And here, from discussion and from various, to say the ossuary, it is said that someone has become rich again, that someone has apartments abroad. Then the question arises: whether we need it or not? Will the Survey Committee be able to determine anything? If nothing else, at least it will help the competent authorities get at least some additional information and start some proceedings. I'm saying again, I've always talked about possible, but as time goes on, we see that there have been some abuses. They should not be seen selectively or partyly. I often knew to say that whoever abused or stole some of the money from the budget users, which was meant for our people in Kosovo and Metohija, he is no ordinary thief and should not be subject to ordinary punishment. For him, it should be a double penalty, because he also misused money, stole it, endangered national interests and threatened the survival of Serbs. Under the cloak of patriotism to fill pockets, I don't think it should serve anyone the honor. To create controlled chaos, apparent chaos, raise tensions that the only motive is to provide some funds that would be used again not in the right way. We in the SPS in the past have advocated a fundamental redistribution of funds, of course, with control where these funds go to the last dinar, because every citizen and one who fills that budget has the right to do so. I have to tell you that it wasn't easy to prove, because under the circumstances that are down there, in circumstances where we have budgetary inspectors who, when someone sends them and gets them to go, they sit down with the one they're supposed to control in some pub, there's a nice lunch, and, you don't believe, that budget inspector makes a better report than they would have done, you know, what they did, what they used budget funds. When the control of the auditors was at the Ministry of Finance, with all the praises, what I disagreed with was that it simply said that someone from below made a statement under criminal and material responsibility that everything was done in accordance with procedures and that nothing was misused. It just doesn't stand. I'm absolutely against it. There's a possibility that every dinar could be controlled, where he went, and what he spent it on. Later, in turn, a fellow member of the Zvonimir Stevic, who was normally the secretary of state at the ministry, may have a little more opportunity to tell us, since he was also a direct participant in the distribution of these funds and, of course, a colleague of Bogdanovic, who served as minister at the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, I hope we will hear from them, as they were directly as an executive body to move easily and easily. Of course, we, as a legislative body, asked them to provide us with various reports and data. That went more or less difficult. There have been many painful discussions on these committees. Of course, those who were looking for data, they were accused of being traitors, those who spent those funds, they are still valid for patriots today, so, as we say, for the sake of the truth, I think the moment has finally come that, this committee of experts, I don't know how they're going to be put together, I'd like to have people on that board who understand public finances, in the streams of money that go, that simply, although I've already suggested that maybe one team of experts, of experts, of experts of the financial profession, of the legal profession, of budgetary experts, and to start from the beginning and to see how it all went. Although, believe me, as much as I had off-the-book information, many documents are not available and we don't know if any documents are available from below. And there were all kinds of cases. That would be a little bit of time now if we were to set up all the examples and all the ways in which someone was going to abuse money. It's not his fault he's trying to abuse money. It's the one who lets him. It's the one who lets him do it. It's the one who doesn't control him. As for us in the SPS, we will support, as we have always supported, to determine the spending of budget funds and to monitor the spending of these funds in the next period. What is important and essential is that these resources, which go down, are in the function of that people and their survival. Because, you know how abuse, it's not just abuse when someone embezzles that money, it's abuse, and if he goes disproportionately, if he invests where he shouldn't, if he invests in some pointless stuff. I say that precisely because we have the opportunity, whoever is able to see that the people down there are hard to live for and that their expectations are high and that, when they hear how much each year is allocated to the Kosovo and Metohija budget, you simply have, whenever you talk to the people, a variety of complaints. I don't want to owe much. The point is that even after all this, when the survey board starts to work, it is simple and later, after that, to do what is most important, to make a fundamental redistribution of these funds. We have some, in my opinion, as economists of abnormal things, that in these circumstances there are things that I don't think matter at this point and that they have to adapt to the situation we're in. I would thank you, and I think that, if someone didn't misread me, I think that my colleague, the head of the parliamentary group, Borko Stefanovic, had one very good analytical exhibition and was probably one of the experiences he got by spending time on barricades along with Minister Goran Bogdanovic, when he had the opportunity on the ground to see and hear from the people, from ordinary citizens, from voters, what is the real situation. I am pleased that the head of the parliamentary group in such a good way has insight into what is going on in the space of Kosovo and Metohija. I'd like to thank you one more time and, if there's any need, I'll be involved in a further discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14688	People's MP Milovan Dracun. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14689	Mr. President, respected colleagues, the formation of a polling committee has one single goal to determine whether there was an unintended spending of funds allocated to allow the survival and development of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. If the facts are established that there has been accidental and illegal spending, these facts will lead us to individuals who have done so, in order to avoid just trying to criminalise the entire Serb people, especially one who defended his right in northern Kosovo, to live in the country in which he was born, in the state of Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party, as one of its strategic priorities, has promoted and realised the fight against corruption and organised crime, with the goal of getting out of the framework of the most corrupt states. In this context, we want to determine that funds have been spent on Kosovo and Metohija over the past period. No hidden intentions. There's no wicked background. There's no pointing fingers at some individuals in advance. We just want the truth. As chairman of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, I was very pleased when we adopted by the vast majority of the committee members a decision to form a polling committee, because we showed our willingness to work together, as a government and opposition, to control budget spending. I am absolutely convinced that the polling committee is an extremely strong democratic mechanism to determine whether there have been irregularities in spending budgets and that the polling committee can significantly raise the reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to respond to a number of demands, I would say even certain calls by Serbs to the KIM who daily ask me, as president of the KIM Committee, probably from many other fellow MPs, to prevent illegalities from spending these funds. No one here intends to deprive the citizens of Serbia of Kosovo and Metohija by establishing whether there was an unintended spending of budget funds. On the contrary, we would like to see those who have, eventually, accidentally spent budget funds disgusted citizens living in central Serbia in Serbia's fight against the state of Serbia to defend territorial integrity. Since all parliamentary groups will be able to delegate one of their representatives on the committee of inquiry, I do not think there is a better mechanism to show unity in the National Assembly and to really determine the facts. I think that the polling board is a much better forum than institutions like the police, the prosecution, the judiciary, and that we, as the National Assembly and MPs, and how we are obliged to control the work of the executive government, to control the way the budget is spent, that we are therefore elected, among other things. If we're at the height of the task, I think we'll show this committee of inquiry. I truly believe that we will now have a completely different situation, that this committee of inquiry will show that it really needs to work for the National Assembly's poll committee, that it will have the seriousness, the weight, the results needed and I, as chairman of the Committee and as an MP who has received a number of materials and documents from the citizens of the KIM, will make it available to the committee of inquiry, all for the sake of establishing the truth. Finding out the truth about whether there was an unintended spending of funds that we've allocated from the KIM budget can only contribute to our fight to preserve territorial integrity. In this regard, we are in full support, such as the SNS and I, as an MP who tabled a formal proposal, which was necessary to enter into the procedure of forming a survey board, forming this committee and its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14690	The word has been made by the MP Radmila Gerov, as the first to be reported on the list of speakers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14691	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear People's MPs, today, when we are in parliament considering a decision to set up a survey committee, which should determine how money was spent in the previous 12 years in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, we do so for one reason. For reasons that the official state authorities may not have paid enough attention to determine whether there was or wasn't any misuse of state money, and that is, you will agree, the money of all citizens of this country. If we know that this country and all its citizens stand out about 500m euros each year to help Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, we will agree, and I am glad that we all agree on this, that we need to determine whether that money was spent on purpose or not. For these 12 years, six billion euros have been spent from the Republic of Serbia's budget to help Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. The task of the committee is not easy at all, because according to this proposal, the Committee has four months to report to this Parliament how these funds were spent and whether or not there have been certain abuses with these state funds. In addition to this fact that we are forming such a polling committee today, we, as LDP, must point to another fact. We're always about to prevent it rather than heal it. That is why last year, when this Parliament discussed the Law on the Budget of the Republic for 2013, we submitted an amendment that should oblige the State Auditing Institution to determine each year and in 2013 how the citizens' money is spent in this area. This survey board, unfortunately, will not determine how money is being spent there today and it is certain that in another period we may be able to form a new survey committee for the same reasons. That is why we regret that the ruling majority in this House did not take this amendment as a good proposal and did not support that the State Auditing Institution has an obligation to submit to this Parliament, with the final report of the 2013 budget, a report on the spending of money in Kosovo and Metohija this year. Another very important point and a very important point that we are discussing today is the proposal for candidates to elect members of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee. In accordance with the Agency's Law, we have received from the authorised proposings proposals for board members. All of them on time, except for the Social-Economic Council. For us in the LDP, it is really strange that the Social-Economic Council did not make its proposal in time. That's what I'm saying because members of the Council are representatives of the government and, among other things, ministers of this government. It is a completely incomprehensible memo that we received on 18 March from the Social-Economic Council, and you, too, have received it, President of the Assembly, which says that the last session of the Council was held on 3 December last year, that in January and February, the Social-Economic Council did not plan to hold its session, and that on 1 March, a session that did not have a quorum was scheduled, for the reason that none of the government representatives, except one State Secretary, attended the session and the other social partners attended. It is not the task of the Social-Economic Council just to give us a proposal for a candidate for a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee. We know very well that the Social and Economic Council in this country has another or should at least play another significant role, which is to take account and to propose how to address the social and economic crisis in this country. That is why it is really unacceptable for us to have four months in Serbia, in which we have a million unemployed, in which about 200 citizens lose their jobs a day, the Social-Economic Council does not ambush. Are the ministers who are members of the Social-Economic Council not interested in the situation in this country? We know very well that unemployment is our country's first and biggest problem. Do they not care that every day we have the fact that individual businesses or private entrepreneurs are being shut down? How will we increase the number of employees in this country, and how will we at least prevent citizens in this country from losing their jobs further? It is truly irresponsible that the Social-Economic Council does not have its session for four months. We do not really see the purpose of the existence of a Social-Economic Council, which is simply called the Social-Economic Council, and that as a Parliament, we do not have any report on their work, that today, when we are considering the selection of members of the Anti-Corruption Agency, we can only see that this council has not taken place for four months. It is clear that the ministers of this council either should take part in the work of the council or should resign because Serbia is not a country that is economically stable, Serbia is very difficult to live in... (President: I agree, but we will talk about this when it comes to the subject of the Social Economic Council, now it is still a much more important topic – the Council for the fight against corruption. ) I absolutely agree, but we're the only ones from the Social Economic Council, and you know it very well, we only got a proposal two days ago, after all the deadlines, with a delay. It would be logical for this parliament to receive a proposal first from the Social Economic Council, which should be held at least once a month, if not twice, to meet in Serbia in crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14692	Thank you. The word is made by MP Goran Bogdanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14693	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear People's MPs, I think that tonight we have a very important topic ahead of us and I think that, first of all, citizens in Kosovo and Metohija are closely following what's going on in the Assembly tonight, precisely for reasons and a desire to know what happened back 12-13 years about spending money, i.e. the transfer of money to the premises of Kosovo and Metohija, whether the National Assembly is ready to accept the initiative to form a polling committee and to finally put an end to or, better say, the perception that exists in the public over the illegal spending of money on Kosovo and Metohija. I am personally very interested in forming this committee of inquiry. For this reason, the DS also came out with this proposal at the Assembly Committee on Kosovo and Metohija and, fortunately, we managed to push the proposal through and come here on the agenda of the Republika Srpska Assembly. But with all this and vision and listening to previous talks, I cannot help but give the impression that, unfortunately, such an important topic, which certainly interests the public in Serbia, is not politicizing or using for some daily political purposes tonight. I don't think there is an MP in this assembly, I don't think there are any citizens in Serbia who are not interested, not only in spending money in Kosovo and Metohija, but also in spending money from budgets across Serbia. For this reason, I wish, honourable MPs, to remind you, since I have been Minister for Kosovo and Metohija for four years of my term of office, and for two years I have been audited in my ministry, you have had opportunities for sure, and the public has been informed that all this has been done, I would not want to talk about it, that every assembly committee in the previous four years has reported very zealously about spending money in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. Also, I have to remind you of one fact that the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. its budget, only 8% of the funds that the state of Serbia places on Kosovo and Metohija. This was the same case with the former Federal Committee, with the Coordination Centre, which is now the case with the Office for Kosovo and Metohija. That is why it is very important that the committee of inquiry has this in mind, that other ministries are also subject to control, that other spending, i.e. transfers of funds to Kosovo and Metohija will be reviewed. I think some MPs here have expressed their concern about whether it will be possible to implement it. I think so. I think there are very clear principles and you know it. Is the resources provided for the infrastructure, is this infrastructure done, at which price was made, was it public procurement and were they an annexes of contracts? It's four things about objects where the survey board, it's going to be my suggestion, our board member, to check it out first. As for other things, I think we must pay very much attention, i.e. the survey committee shall pay attention to the cash compensation received as well. There is the National Employment Service, which must also examine some things, because there is a commission there are some regulations, to see if this is adequately respected. I think that citizens, first of all, in Kosovo living in exceptional conditions expect it and no one should be surprised by such an approach, first of all by this Assembly, namely the DS, I repeat, which is very interested in showing or proving if there were any irregularities or abuses of those funds. It's just that we have to bear in mind the fact that we can't just divide the north and keep talking about the north. The flat ones went north and south. I wouldn't agree with anyone who thinks there's some kind of crime in the north, that there was abuse or that I don't know what else. For this very reason, however, the accent must also be placed by the survey board, to cover all funding segments in Kosovo and Metohija. Please, honourable MPs who will tell you all about this, that in any way we do not politicize, that we should be concrete, to help our ideas, our suggestions, how and how the committee of inquiry will work. Of course, I'm at my disposal, I'm here, I was the initiator of the formation of this polling committee, because I repeat, we finally have to point out that in Kosovo and Metohija, we've been doing things for 12, 13 years. I don't know if such things were happening, but there are, above all, state authorities, there are, fortunately, this survey board, which will have free hands, that it will be able to call on anyone who in any way knows what was going on in the space of Kosovo and Metohija. For the simple reason, I'll be brief, and I won't talk about it anymore, because I, I say, was Minister for Kosovo and Metohija. I'm very interested in these things, anything else to say, maybe it would be superfluous, maybe it would be some kind of justice, or I don't know what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14694	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14695	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are all aware that this committee of inquiry was formed at a time when a very harmful thesis was placed in the public, that a major crime and abuse of funds from the budgets that have been allocated to our citizens living in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija took place in Kosovo. As you know, each parliament forms a committee of inquiry and committees are formed when there are some phenomena in society, some situations that require special attention and which, regardless of the control and work of the judiciary and the investigative authorities, require special attention from parliaments and those who are practically engaged in these negative phenomena in society, which require special attention in these parliaments. My personal opinion, with which most can agree, and perhaps not agree, is that there are much more important and much bigger problems in this country that might require the formation of polling committees on issues of how companies that are real for 50 years back in Serbia have been sold for three euros. As the privatisation money flowed from the subsequent sale of those bars that were bought in private pockets. We may have been able to form a survey board as money was spent on security for those who bought jeeps for twenty or thirty years and had security in ten or fifteen members. But after a very large media campaign led by some media-funded Western structures in Serbia, the impression was that it was necessary to form or examine a negative phenomenon, including the use of non-intentional budget spending on Kosovo and Metohija. This resulted in a proposal that was formulated by individuals from parties that, I must say, I regret to say that there are also parties in this House that disagree with the need to preserve our country's territorial integrity and unity, but they are agreed or would quietly accept that maybe Serbia should give up some part of its territory for some important goals. However, without wanting to get into that topic, it may be possible that members of these parties would be aware that if we were to say in the United States and taxi drivers dared to push for the secession of one piece of U.S. territory, we would pass as barefoot. Here in Serbia, this is not the case, and there are also such people. It also happens that the weight of 500m euros has been spent in a criminal way to finance, according to representatives of proposings or individual fellow MPs, unfortunately there are among us in this parliament, for the functioning of the rest of the Serbian state in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija. They are honored and burdened by what they have said. When such a fama has already been created in public and it has already been formally put on the agenda of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee to form one survey committee to determine the facts on how the Republic of Serbia's budget was spent on Kosovo and Metohija's territory from 2000 to 2012. I wasn't a member of that committee myself, but I don't think I would agree with the need to form when it's already formed. We are here to put an end to these negative stories and negative connotations that have been tried or that are trying to place themselves on the burden of people living today in Kosovo and Metohija and working both in state and local self-government. I also have to notice that I don't agree with the findings that individuals weren't ministers until yesterday, so they don't know what was going on or the secretary of state, as if they didn't know what was going on until yesterday. Today, as a new government or as a government that has been operating since recently, we have no objection to the examination of the work or way of spending state resources in the period from 2000 to 2012. We really don't have any difficulty, or any problem with that. However, as MPs, we must not allow the thesis of the apriori to be accepted in public that there has been abuse in spending budgets in Kosovo and Metohija. Then when it is said -- you know, in 12 years, six billion euros were spent on Kosovo and Metohija. How much was spent on the travel expenses of individual Serbian officials who were flying who knew where around the world for the past 12 years. Let's put that on paper and form a survey board. Rogobatno sounds to citizens of Serbia who hear such data, and even more raving sounds to citizens of Serbia living in the KIMs when, in public, such a claim is being made through state media, which casts light on all those who today, despite all the difficulties, remain and remain on KIM. And what we're doing, we can't do it in the interest of anyone or any party. Everything we do here in Parliament must be in the interest of those who live and survive today, and north of Ibra and south of Iber. When we talk about possible abuses of budget spending, we have to bear in mind the fact that those people who listen to what we're talking about today have to ask themselves whether they would feel nice and if they would be calm enough to send their child or drive a car ten miles away, to the municipalities of Novo Brdo or Kosovo Kamenica, to the villages of Jasenovic, Čuljkovci, Cormiliana, Rajanovci, have to drive their children to the bus, to take them away to school. These are all very difficult conditions of life and I pray both the public of Serbia and all dear colleagues and fellow MPs to take care when today, or anytime, we talk about the subject of KIM, to take care of the interests of these people who today, without fearing for their lives, survive on their eternal hearths. We must not allow any sword to be laid upon them, so that everyone, globally and generally, may be called criminals or those who have misused funds from the budget. How proud it sounds when it's said -- six billion euros, and in Serbia there are almost a million unemployed and very difficult to live. The decision on the education of the survey committee has been proposed by the KiM Committee and there are several solutions on that committee that will have a basis only to determine the truth about how funds are spent in the KIM premises. Perhaps that period of 12 years in which another party was in power is very interesting, perhaps after that it will be able to say much about the previous government, but it is really not a priority in forming this survey board. We agree to form this survey board just because we want to clear honest people who survive despite all the difficulties, despite the security difficulties, despite the fact that their lives may be at stake. They stay to live on KIM. And we will not allow anyone to talk about the Serbs in KIM as if they were criminals, as if they were people living on a burden or on the hunchback of Serbs from central Serbia or anywhere else in Serbia. We won't let them get out of hand. That is why we will still accept and vote in favour of forming this polling committee, although those who advocated yesterday may be banned as a state official from entering the KIM territory because, God be with us, it is causing intolerant attitudes of some revolutionary thesis or some kind of behaviour of Serbs in Cosmet. So, we will, however, support the formation of this polling committee, which will be tasked with submitting within 120 days of the constitution a report at the National Assembly session on whether funds from the Republic budget have been spent in some illegal way in 2000-2012, and particularly whether they have been available to all users under the same conditions, whether they have been used according to established plans and accepted projects, whether the procurement and implementation process has been carried out in accordance with the law, etc. When I say so, I must point out that DRI has filed hundreds of criminal charges for abuse in local self-governments throughout Serbia, so there is no polling committee on this matter, but let them. Whether State property has been alienated illegally, how much funds have been allocated for each financial year, for which the purposes and on whose proposal these funds have been spent and to which they have been allocated, and whether or not the audit or control of the spending of those funds has been carried out, all checks shall be made. Once again, at the end of my presentation, as a man who doesn't have any property in KIM and who I keep, not because I have some professional obligation but because as a Serb, I feel the need to be with my people where it's difficult, because I want those people who live in the KIM area today, I have an idea, and I'm going to say this idea publicly now, because of the understanding of the way people live in KIM, I wanted to suggest that all of us MPs in one quarter should spend at least a week in KIM territory with Serbs in local self-government, perhaps in northern Kosovo, in Zubin Potok, in Mitrovica, in Gracanica, that we who decide on these things still understand these people a little bit better. Perhaps some should not go down, they may be afraid, but, believe me, when the Serbs living in KIM territory are not afraid, why should we, who are MPs, we who need our own example to show how Serbia should be defended and how to be a patriot? And you don't need to stegmatize Serbs with KIM as quasi-patriots who deal with filling their pockets. For all of this, I will vote as a representative of the Socialist Movement, which is headed by Alexander Vulin for the formation of this polling committee and I hope that we will be able to realise the goals for which we will form this polling committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14696	Thank you. MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14697	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that such strong words do not follow and such a large number of MPs of the ruling majority in the hall, in order to show their interest in KIM in the work. At first, I will quote a member of the Rules of Procedure, not because I want to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but because I would like to share with the citizens of Serbia the competences of the committee of inquiry. In accordance with Article 68 of The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, it is said, that the National Assembly educates the survey committee, i.e. to look at the situation in a particular area and determine the facts of certain occurrences or events. It is further said that "the decision on the education of the survey committee sets out the composition and task of the committee, as well as the deadline for its implementation". It is then said that the polling committee is being educated from the order of MPs. And what is particularly important and what I would really like to quote and reach all citizens of Serbia: "The Commission cannot carry out investigative and other judicial actions, but the committee, or commission, has the right to request from state authorities and data organisations, documents and notifications, and to take statements from individuals it needs." Finally, the polling committee is said to inform the National Assembly at the end of its work on the results of its work, report on work and propose certain measures to be taken in a particular area. All of this is very important to know what the powers of the committee of inquiry are. However, speaking of the committee of inquiry, it would be worth a little, as we quote the Rules of Procedure, to quote a member of the Constitution. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, article 184, says autonomous provinces have original incomes that finance their responsibilities. Now I have to ask – how did we get into a situation where the AP KiM can't finance itself through its parliament, its government, its budget, but we have to have this kind of funding? That's because there was a year in this country in 1999. In 1999, the same people who are calling today over Kosovo and Metohija's fate led the country and allowed NATO to march in Kosovo and Metohija. These same people turned the High Decain port into a parking lot for NATO tanks. Those same people who are trying to get chestnuts out of the fire today... (Employee of the SNS, from Place: Theme. ( b) Why do you have a problem with the subject? Of course it's the subject, because we need to make a retrospective of how we got to this. Don't make it hurt. The past knows it hurts, but you need that pain with dignity to endure, without trespassing. I'd like to remind you of the chronology. Why are we only talking about 12 years of unintended spending money in Kosovo and Metohija? Didn't our current colleague, Mr. Zoran Angelkovic, form a temporary Executive Major for Kosovo and Metohija, and then in 1999 NATO marched on Kosovo, and you who are now throwing, were in power, and then in 2000, the Federal Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, led by Momcilo Trajkovic, began to operate, and from that moment on the right of increased investment activity when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija? The Co-ordination Body was then formed from 2001 to 2005, i.e. the Co-ordination Centre for Kosovo and Metohija, which was run by Nebojsa Covic. It was only 2005-2007 that Mrs. Sanda Raskovic Ivić led the co-ordination centre, and it was only 2007 that the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija was established by our distinguished colleague Samardzic. After that, the Ministry was established, led by Mr Goran Bogdanovic, and today we have the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, not the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, because this problem has also gone from the policy "both Kosovo and Europe" to the policy " neither Kosovo nor Europe". Of course, then one minute someone decided to draw the line and say let's see how the money was spent. I will not remind the public of Serbia, nor my colleagues that Kosovo is the most expensive Serbian word, because some have indeed succeeded in living in Kosovo and Metohija and that Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija are not a mark of belonging to a nation, but an interest. On the other hand, I will not say that Kosovo is the bottom of our spiritual vision, because some Kosovo and Metohija were the bottom of the wallet, but I will remind you that the problem of Kosovo and the Metohija that you made in 1999 and which culminated, that before you in this room, some other MPs were sitting in this house, in some other homes some other MPs, who were domestically treating the state of Serbia. There were some Serbian regiments who bled for this Kosovo and Metohija, there was a pop Minic from Kruševac National MP... This is the topic, to see how the MPs used to speak when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. Watch what Pop Minic says: "Every Serb," and says to the MPs in 1908, "if there are three dinars in his wallet, two to free Kosovo and Metohija. Every Serb has three sons, two to free Kosovo and Metohija." He then left with Serbian regiments and marched to Kosovo and Metohija in 1912. You know, this priest Minic, those heroes who entered Kosovo and Metohija and took turns with medals -- avenged Kosovo, some failed, sold in 1999. When we talk about caring for the people, of course I care about the people who live in Kosovo and Metohija, for the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija. I've been many times. You don't need that demagogue empty story, that they'll be better off if we spend more time there. We also held meetings of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee in Kosovo and Metohija. Here's my colleague, Dejan Radenkovic, from the SPS. Remember how many times we were in Strpc and Mitrovica and held meetings of the Committee in Kosovo and Metohija. When we talk about whether someone left the people for mercy and not mercy and to watch these people drive their children to school, let's remind ourselves how we left these people in 1999. When they began to retreat, a special op unit met them at the Mine and returned to Kosovo and Metohija. For what? Kill them as much as possible? I don't blame these people for anything in Kosovo and Metohija. I don't blame these people or accuse them of anything. I know what their destiny is. Go to Kosovo's Vitin, for example, to see what it's like to live as a Serb with a neighbor who is the commander of the UCK terrorist organisation. Now go see what the baskets look like. Sometimes monks come out of the Decane up.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14698	Mr. Milivoevich, approach the subject, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14699	If we talk about the poll committee on Kosovo and Metohija, then we are not forming this survey committee because of the territory, but because of citizens living there, that they know that money has been spent, for what purposes, where six billion have gone. If we talk about Kosovo and Metohija today and the formation of a survey board, we do not form it because there are Western media and pro-Western media, because, thank God, independent, free media, independent, free investigative journalism in Serbia still exists. There's a stack of rumours, and there's a gentleman out there every day in the party hall telling you what's gonna happen. But there's this independent investigative journalism. On Insider's show -- a patriotic robbery of Kosovo, we could, thanks to the courage of these journalists, get scary information about how money was spent. Do I need to remind you how many buildings have been charged and not built? Where are the roads? Today, my esteemed colleague Babic spoke of how terrible it is when credit is taken, and no country expropriation is carried out. And do you know how terrible it is when a credit is taken and paid off by a contractor, and there is no road anywhere, and the road is done so that in the event of an insurgency and repeated case from martian violence, some of our citizens who live and survive in Kosovo and Metohija can evacuate to Kosovo Mitrovica? There's no way, there's no rebuilding houses, and there's no money for that. I especially want to mention one thing. At a time when the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija was managed by Mr Goran Bogdanovic, from 2008 to 2012, only 8% of the money allocated to Kosovo and Metohija went through the ministry. A lot of money went through public enterprises. A lot of money went through some other ministries. A lot of money went to some double and triple pay. We've talked about this many times. The poll committees formed the parliament of the Republic of Serbia many times. I've been an MP since 2007, and since 2007, we haven't had a survey board. The latest survey board in Serbia was a survey committee that explored details of the murder of Defence Minister Pavol Bulatovic and data and information on the theft of electricity. Even Vojislav Seselj was one of the members of the survey board. Of course, I do not expect this polling committee to have a crucial impact on this situation in Kosovo and Metohija when it comes to spending budget money and budget money, nor am I sure that once and for all, abuses will be discontinued. I know you. I know you can't squeeze honey without licking fingers, and I know what people in Kosovo and Metohija need, I know what they need for citizens who live there and want to stay and stay. They don't need a pirate night, patriotic witnesses, oaths. They need to solve specific problems. You don't have to call me down, I didn't see you in the Decians when the Episcope was enthroned, nor did I see you enthroned by Patriarch Iriney, nor did I see you in Gracanica when the Episcopal Theodosia shared a medal with mothers who had given birth to seven, eight, and nine children. You don't have to call me there because I'm there all the time. I'm not going in there to get drunk in an official car or go in there that I have any interest in, but I'm going there because I have friends, relatives, godparents who I've been telling you that if they vote for you, there'll be refugees. When we talk about what has been done not only since 2000 but since 1998, let's say when there is an economical circuit executive, and when we talk about the establishment of the Survey Committee and then we cry out that the Survey Committee should examine privatisation in Serbia, it should review privatisations. I am sorry that there has never been a survey board for the privatisation of Telecom, which took place in 1998 and has never been found out where a billion marks ended, nor whose son did plastic surgery to the ears of those pairs. Before that, he wore crates and became the richest man on the planet. Don't talk too much about privatisation, mix the Kosovo and Metohija Survey Committee with the Privatisation Committee, because it would hurt a lot and there would be a lot of unpleasant data. And even less, don't try to have this debate that we're having today on the establishment of the Kosovo and Metohija Money Expensive Survey Committee to discuss in the National Assembly on Kosovo and Metohija or that session where we asked questions, so you're like talking. No, we will demand that this failed Brussels delegation come before the MPs and make an account, and then we will discuss the elections, and they will go before the citizens and make the bills there. In the end, I just want to tell you a few things. The opposition MP should be handling the work of this committee. No matter which opposition party. Do not stick labels to political parties that do not like Kosovo, that there are some who would sell Kosovo, some who would keep Kosovo, but accept that there are people in the hall of various political views and that these people with different political views have the right to determine how budget money was spent in Kosovo and Metohija, whether there was a patriotic robbery or not. Whether it was abuse or not. Please note, once again, that only 8% of the money that went to KIM from 2008 to 2012 was from the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, led by Mr Goran Bogdanovic, and that 92% of the money went from some other funds. That 8% represented more than 90% of the ministry's funds where salaries were paid to employees in Kosovo and Metohija and some other things. So we have no fear of what this committee will determine. If someone's afraid, if his conscience isn't calm, if someone's going to remind themselves of their political biography, their 1999 impact through the work of that committee, that's his problem. It's not the us we're looking for. Our conscience is still there when it comes to 1999 and when it comes to 2008 and when it comes to 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14700	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14701	I am advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure because the previous MP did not speak with respect for this House and this high house. Dear Mr. Milivoevich, I have no intention of getting on top of you or persuading myself, I only appeal that... I'm sorry, I've made a breach of the Rules of Procedure. At this point when we talk about Kosovo and Metohija and the difficulties of people living in Kosovo and Metohija, about possible abuses, we should not be dealing with in 1999 today, when we really all need to take care of the dignity of not only this parliament that reflects people living in Kosovo and Metohija and all Serbs who have morals and who want to keep it. In these difficult times, which may be the hardest times since Serbia exists, we should not disrespect each other. In that sense, I mentioned the name and the last name and I apologize for making a breach of the Rules of Procedure because I directly mentioned the name and the name of an honourable fellow MP, but anyone who talks in this House talks more about himself than anyone else. So do all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14702	The word has been given by the People's MP, Mr Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14703	I am advocating the violation of Rules of Procedure of Rule 103 because, as I have heard, a respected colleague, Todorovic, asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, not a replica, and this was called for a violation of Parliament's dignity. Then, explaining the breach of the Rules of Procedure, he used the right to replicate me. There's no need to replicate to anyone. Just for the record. I know you won't even vote on it in the voter's day that there's actually been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I insist that the Assembly declare it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14704	Can I first explain to you that Mr. Todorovic was not given the right to speak on the basis of a breach of the Rules of Procedure but on the basis of a replica. If he had received a word based on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I would have warned him first to say which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured. Since you mentioned in your presentation, Mr Milivojevic, you are wrong to expose the previous Mr Todorovic on this basis. The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14705	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I imagine it has become an evil thing to talk about Kosovo and Metohija in such late hours, unfortunately tonight and in front of this home's unseemly-filled gym. I am grateful to my predecessors who, even so thin a thread that binds me to Kosovo and Metohija, solidify their discussions. I was one of those who was on the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija against the formation of the Survey Committee for two reasons. The first reason is because the negotiations of our negotiating team with the interim Kosovo institutions are under way, and I was afraid that the formation of one such polling committee would not further agree on the overall situation in Kosovo and Metohija and reduce the capacity of our negotiating team. The second reason is because I did not want the establishment of the Survey Committee to create an animosity for citizens in the narrow part of Serbia towards Serbs and other non-Albanian populations in Kosovo and Metohija. Today's discussion convinced me that I was wrong, and I admit that I was wrong, and I think it's necessary to form a committee like this. Many here have asked what are the reasons for forming such a polling committee? Ladies and gentlemen, according to the parliamentary group I belong to Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia is a poor state so as not to take care of where every dinar from the state budget is going today. Why not do so when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija? The fight against organised crime and corruption implies such a struggle in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, thus also in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. These are the basic reasons that require the establishment of one such survey committee. You know that in the years behind us, from 2000 to 2012 the money that through various investments and other commitments towards KIM has been placed through the government of the Republic of Serbia's competent ministries. There was no solution for the centralist from one place to control the money and the effects caused by the placement of such money in the Kim space. My MP group, and we discussed this on the KIM Committee, advocates a solution to future financing of all needs in KIM space through the KIM Office. I hope that the KIM Office will be trained in organisational and humane terms for such a job, and I believe that it will then be very easy to control the effects, i.e. to monitor the channels of money, especially the channels leading to the KIM space. No one can convince me, even though I, who spent a good part of my life professionally dealing with some security issues in the KIM area, that there is no rope between criminal groups in Belgrade and the rest of Serbia with some criminal groups in the KIM area. Yeah, I agree, if anyone asks me. If corruption and crime should be sought at KIM, then first of all they should be sought in Pristina, they should be sought by temporary Kosovo institutions, they should be sought by those who make up government of KIM today. Since the Republic of Serbia is unable to accomplish such a task at this time, then it is certainly able to realise at least that it controls money that much, and I believe that no dinar spent on KIM, which is in the function of preserving vital state and national interests, has been spent in vain. I believe that the financial expenditures for KIM are not enough and should be increased, but I think it is also a crime if someone has sinned against that money and if that money has ended up in private pockets and if these pockets have ended up today with the biggest fighters and the greatest supporters of the preservation of vital state and national interests in Kosovo, and figuratively I call them "supervised Serbs". Therefore, I believe that the polling board will not take a picture in Serbia that all Serbs in the KIM area and other non-Albanians are being criminalised, but I also believe that those in whose pockets the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia has ended, will be wasted without purpose. There is also a link between criminal groups from the territory of Serbia and criminal groups in northern Kosovo, there is a string of criminal groups from the north of Kosovo with those Albanian groups south of Ibra. And that's what we need to talk about. This home is much more serious to define on the basis of a television show on one television that a survey committee would investigate the spending of KIM funds for the past 12 years. Simply, the needs of fighting organised crime and corruption in each part of Serbia's territory require that Serbia's territory be treated in this regard. There were words here that it should be done by the competent state authorities. I think it belongs to the domain of demagogy. It is widely known that neither the police nor the judiciary of the Republic of Serbia today have objective conditions to fully investigate organised crime and corruption, i.e. all flows of money spilling out of the republican budget into the KIM area. That's quite clear. Neither the police, nor the judiciary, nor the other authorities have the opportunity to do so today in the KIM area. Every statement in that direction is a demagogue password. If that were the case, I would be very happy and there would be no need to form a survey board. I'm not happy because the final round of negotiations was unsuccessful between the negotiating team, as someone said, the state summit. I really mean the state top. For the first time with the full meaning of that word can be said – the state top. I am happy because this state summit offers for the first time a solution to KIM and is struggling in a warm fight within the limits of objective circumstances to make the solution the most effective. The second thing is that neither Brussels nor Washington are present at the provisional Kosovo institutions, and that is generally known, so I consider this failure our failure as well. I am not looking forward to any failure in the negotiating process, as I am not looking forward to the results of these negotiations being below the minimum of state and national interests, and I believe that we through the Resolution and the Platform adopted recently in this House have clearly outlined the frameworks within which our negotiating team is moving today. I'd like to express my full support to our negotiating team. We are one of the few people who, in difficult situations like this in our country, often like to diversify things, we are often prone to criticism, and certainly not to the Assembly and some constructive criticism that would help the capacity of our negotiating team to make the best possible solution in Brussels. I hope the negotiations will continue. I'm not a Eurofanatic, but I don't believe digging into my own trenches and freezing the Kim conflict is in the interest of the Serbian state. I therefore believe that these negotiations must continue, but only to the limit at least a minimum of vital state and national interests, and you know what solutions the proposed Resolution and the Negotiation Platform offer. There was a saying here that KIM has no original income. To some whom the sorosev sandwich has clouded my sense of right judgment, I would point out – who is to blame that Serbia has been less and less present today in the state sense of KIM? I don't want to talk about the '90s, although some people remind me of Koshare and many others. Ladies and gentlemen, there may not be a KIM pedal I haven't walked. So these demagogue passwords of those who only from geographical cards know kim don't touch me, even insult me. I am well aware of the role of many who are drilling today and who are exulting over the fact that in these 12 years, the Republic of Serbia is becoming less and less present at KIM, but I am also familiar with the role of those who are honorable and congratulating and then and now, both the 1990s and the 2nds, and today defend our state interests in KIM. Therefore, those who listen, who are my fellow Members and those who are now at KIM, cannot reconcile with such lessons as are shared from this time distance. Why doesn't Serbia have its original income? Because, ladies and gentlemen, from 2000 to 2012, we constantly launched the thesis of the government, which was during that period, that the KIM problem was a problem of disrespect for human and minority rights, not a problem of open separatism and secessionism, not a problem that, since the First and Second Prizren League, has slowly been completed through the stage process, in the late 1990s, to escalate. Then we accused ourselves of everything and everything, and only then did we find tombs where they were gone, we dug them up. Our engineering machines have also dug up half of Kosovo in mines and in many other places, and I think half of Serbia, to find as many arguments as possible to accuse ourselves. We slowly devalued Resolution 1244. We thus sent a message to the International Community that Serbian society is not democratic enough, that there is no capacity to manage KIM, that therefore international tutorship is needed. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we're coming back as a boomerang and now we're accusing each other of who's to blame. We, ladies and gentlemen, are citizens of this Serbia, guilty of being where we are today when it comes to KIM. There is no international conspiracy when it comes to KIM. There are interests in some international power centers, but we have never singled out a single penny to lobby in international power centers, but we've already stolen, robbed this society and took all the money selfishly, not thinking of vital, state and national interests, and now we're giving a lesson from this distance to those who once defended KIM, that they were criminals, that they were running the wrong policy, that they didn't know what they did. It would happen, ladies and gentlemen, if KIM hadn't been in 1998, 1999, in 2008, believe me in 2009. It would happen sometime. In doing so, I'm not amnesting a policy that was led in the '90s. Perhaps I am one of the few soldiers who openly, and those who were with me, I have opposed the president at the time, and many others because of such a policy. I'm not saying that I saw it epochally further, but I was chief of service at KIM, I knew a lot more than others. I'm telling you that would happen. Interests are long ago, in the 1980s, subdued by some interest groups, some congressmen, some senators, huge money is in circulation, and the state of Serbia has not been able to lobby openly for all that time, nor today has lobbyist groups around the world in power centres where it is decided today. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope this Committee of Auditors does not make the position of Serbs and other non-Albanians in KIM more difficult. At least I, through a representative from our parliamentary group, will not allow it, and I will be against it. It will not create a picture for me in Serbia that Serbs, all Serbs in the KIM area, are criminalised and corrupt. I know deeply that there lives an honorable, happy world, a brave world. I know deeply what conditions they live in. It's my homeland and I'm much deeper bound than many others. I hope, apart from Stevic and Bogdanovic, I apologize, and Jaksic, with all due respect, for everything he does for KIM, I don't see anyone else being connected to the KIM space anymore. Please, let's not be so irritable when it comes to KIM, that there are no more or less patriots when it comes to KIM. With all due respect, Mr. Jaksic, I told you on the KIM Committee – Serbs from the north of KIM must show minimum solidarity to Serbs and other non-Albanians south of Ibra. I don't see, even if it's my personal opinion, that at this point you're showing enough degree for a single continent called KIM, as I don't see that some of your actions aren't helping enough for our negotiating team to choose the best solution for KIM in the negotiations that took place until yesterday, and I hope that it will continue in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14706	Thank you. Mr. Yaksic, do you want a replica? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14707	I want to tell the general that our position as Serbs in northern Kosovo is not such that we can help anyone. It is enough that we stand up, what we exist and that, above all, we are the biggest dam in creating an independent Kosovo. I think the general might be able to come with his family, so a little south of Iber to be in the field, in Cosmet. Because, you know what, it's very easy to teach lessons on the side, and you just have to go back to your homeland, you have to be with your people, and then you're going to show in the best way that you're fighting for Kim. What is important and important is that Serbs from the north of Kosovo do not make the position difficult for anyone. On the contrary, Serbs from northern Kosovo are struggling, doing their best, fighting for the institutions of the Serbian state. Serbs from the north of Kosovo are the biggest defenders of the Serbian state today. Serbs from northern Kosovo are sending clear messages. If the state summit, or the state of Serbia, wants to leave that part of the space to the Albanians, it must first change the Constitution and only then give up that space. On the contrary, we are helping the state to fight as hard as possible for these areas, because without us, it certainly cannot do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14708	Thank you. Mr. Stojanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14709	Mr. Jaksic, I wish I could live with my family in my Metohija, in my Djakovica. You know it's impossible. It's impossible for many reasons. I don't know if you know it, but I'm one, if not maybe the last soldier to leave KIM, out of the environment, in the Poduje space. When the last soldier left KIM, I broke out of that environment with two pains. I don't know if you know about the attempted kidnapping of my son back in 1998-1999? I kept my family there until the last day. I was also Chief of Military Security at KIM since 1993-1999. I'm unfair from temporary institutions, and you read that in "R&D Saul", a huge warrant, written by their rules and regulations, although I know I've been doing everything with honor and responsibility. Imagine me being so naive and stupid, and in my lap and arms of such villains, I'd consider it my supreme irresponsibleness to myself and my family. If conditions are created one day, you won't call me to KiM, I'll come to my homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14710	The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14711	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens, unfortunately, is not the first time we've talked about KIM in this way, saying big words, big words, heavy qualifications of caring for KIM and Serbs in KIM space. I get messages from citizens from the central part of the sea area, who clearly tell me – it's hard for us with you. There have been attempts here, which is unacceptable and unsustainable, that this whole situation and this people in the KIM area are being criminalized, which is incorrect and unacceptable. It's not the first time we've tried to politicise KIM and the citizens of KIM. In my opinion, the key question is, what have we been doing together for the last 13 years? This is where it was mentioned in 1999. Do we need to analyze that? Do we need to analyse Resolution 1244 where we fell from power at the time and accused of betraying the state of Serbia and the area of KIM, not to accept Resolution, and in order for later years, back four or five years, to stick to the "drunk float" for that Resolution 1244? What were we doing in 2001, 2003, 2005? Where's the strategy to solve KIM? Who's responsible for this? I cannot agree that the organs are not responsible. How is that not responsible? And it is impossible to finance the beneficiaries of the Serbian state budget, and that whoever is funding them at the same time is not controlling them. If he didn't want to or didn't want to, that's a special question. There's a lot of problems, there's a lot of misunderstandings, there's a lot of holes, there's a lot of wandering around for what takes a lot of time. One of the questions is why did the privatisation of KIM in 2003 and 2004, the sale of large gigans and large assets to KIM, easily give up? Now, here, spectacularly, the entire few hours are being announced by the polling committee, and then the truth about spending financial resources is being determined, whether it was intended or not. It's not the first survey board. There have been polling committees before, so they haven't given any results. I fear that, as a committee of inquiry and composition that participates in it, they will propose measures and I fear that in the end these measures will either produce a legal fact or produce nothing, the result will be negative. Is it time to form a survey board, we had a dilemma, and I had a dilemma over the overall situation, the difficult situation, the dialogue, the negotiations, everything that's going on with KIM and the state of Serbia. And as if we don't know, as if we've fallen from Mars, like thunder from the blue sky, for the whole 13 years and 20 years ago, he doesn't know what he's funding for KIM. It's really funny. I'll tell you the exact information, and that'll be checked out. On today, the state of Serbia is funded by 43,000 people of budget users, from local self-government, education, health care, other activities, 5300 workers of the electricity industry, spears, distribution, power plants, and another part of the public enterprises, means a circus of about 50,000 people. And it's no secret and no taboo thesis or fam is, and it's well known, and you know exactly how much these funds are. There was a question here - does KiM have any original income? He's got the original income. And this is Cosmet, the Serbs with KIM, are giving funds and providing funds to the Republic of Serbia's budget. I'll just remind you -- who passed the law in 2003, that the original incomes of local self-government, will take a pragmatic, practical example of Pristina, are moving to the monthly level in the City of Nis Assembly? Those who know local self-government and who know the budget system, based on our assessment, these original assets, these original revenues are 80 million dinars a month, and the payment fund, what's now being allocated from the office or from the KIM Ministry is 40 million. So it remains a good part of the investment and development funds. Did the Assembly of the City of Nisa or the Ministry of Local Self-Government remember that part of those funds in Pristina or in other areas of that development? No, and that's a special subject. Next thing. Of these 43,000 people we finance, 21,000 receive 120-150%, and 22,000 receive minimum wage, the lowest labour price of the Serbian state. So those down there are receiving a minimumer plus 30%, which is 11,000. Those on the territory of Serbia in migration are eight thousand. Since some of these days are being harassed and say that the human rights of Albanians are in danger and that pensions should be paid, if it is known that the lowest labour price, minimally, is not 8000, but over 19,000, then these rights of Serbs in the KIM area are also at risk. I think one of the priorities of the requirements of the survey board and the composition that would be, which is that we finally take down that anthem and that fam, that the state authorities give that data, and with that data they have, and we're going to get to the actual state, I hope so, too. I'm not against the formation of a committee of inquiry. We can't generalize everything, that all criminals and thieves are in KIM space, but let the truth be established, so the public will be familiar with the real situation. I don't want to argue with a colleague from the DS. We were in the coalition together. Then the public needs to ask us what we've been doing. For these eight months, whoever defended us eight months ago that we, as authorities, were looking for. Now you will say, "Why didn't you ask, so politics is a relationship of strength? Who defended us back four years ago to determine the actual state of affairs, to ask the competent authorities to use or indicate that the investigating authorities, the competent authorities, determine, process and put under the law? We just didn't want to. About this policy, about the wrong policy, about the destructive policy, etc., the people pleaded in the elections, and it showed in the last elections, that I am now not like myself, and that I am not boasting, has shown in the last parliamentary elections, supported the SPS policy and our leadership, and you all know that the SPS has won the last parliamentary elections. The Socialist Party will support the formation of a polling committee and participate in its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14712	Thank you. National MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14713	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I have a procedural question for you, perhaps more for the Secretary of Parliament – do we perhaps have a new function in the Assembly that would be called "conclusion" master, since he has been the last speaker of Mr Zoran Babic from the SNS for several months? Now looking at this list, I don't see any way for him to be the last speaker, unless he's the master of conclusions and he needs to give the final word at every debate. So neither is his letter B after the letter M, R in the alphabet, nor after the letter V, so I don't know how he always finds himself at the end, to give the final word. Please take care of this in the future, as well as take care of it when it starts in the National Assembly sessions. Today we were half an hour late in the afternoon, so that's why we're working at 15 to nine. We were 20 minutes late this morning, too. Please make sure that the ruling majority tries to secure a quorum for the start of work. If you don't, say, we'll consult in our parliamentary group, maybe we'll give you a quorum so we don't waste citizens' time and these lights in the O.R. As far as the survey committee is concerned, the topic is the formation of a survey committee on spending funds on KIM in the previous period, it is certainly an interesting coincidence that we are discussing today, in a situation where the state summit, as it calls itself, the Head of State, the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, the President of the Republic, is meeting, discussing topics that we do not know what they are talking about, and we know what kind of talks they have had in Brussels, and all about KIM and the fact that it concerns the people who live there. It wouldn't be particularly worrying for people in Kosovo and Metohija and Serbian citizens if we didn't have some very disturbing information from these meetings, which are given by various spokesmans, type: "Serbia is in the hardest time since Serbia exists". That's what one SNS MP just said. The first Deputy Prime Minister says tonight: "Serbia is in a dramatically difficult situation". When they ask him - how are you going to solve it, he says - I don't know. You were not elected by people and citizens to say that you do not know how you will address the issue of the position of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. You said Kosovo and Metohija will remain in the Republic of Serbia, that we have led a policy aimed against Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and Serbia. I believe there are many MPs among you who sincerely take care of the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, Serbia, but you are certainly confused by the statements made by the president of your party, the president of the state, the Prime Minister, who say we must decide – either the people of Kosovo and Metohija, the Serbian people or the state of Serbia. So it's very clear that it's said. The committee should certainly answer several key questions, which is – how are the funds spent, the serious, the huge funds that went to Kosovo and Metohija? No one was against the fact that citizens in Kosovo and Metohija should enjoy special benefits, because they live in very difficult conditions, that infrastructures, homes of culture, schools, apartments should be built, to pay their salaries to doctors, however, it often ended up in the deep pockets of businessmen and local politicians. I think we all agree on that. There is no dispute, in Kosovo and Metohija, funds have been spent unintendedly for many years. We don't have to bid which parties were run by local self-governments, or who was in general running those resors. We're not a party that accesss responsibilities selectively. Many took part, at least there's DS personnel, but we're asking everyone to be questioned, even if they were DS personnel. For this reason, the DS has proposed the establishment of a survey committee. Maybe she could have done it before, I agree with the previous speaker, but we trusted the institutions of this state. Unfortunately, these institutions have been destroying themselves for the last eight months. So the problem with this country is that institutions are systematically being destroyed. The independence of the courts, the independence of the police, the independence of the prosecution, and I would even say the independence of this national assembly is in serious trouble. In this regard, we in the DS believe that the polling committee may be an independent body that could in this case carry out an analysis, or control of budget spending, to determine the truth. It'll be a little bit of a fixer-upper. That money's gone, but we might be able to prevent damage for the next period. Unfortunately, the funds were spent without any control, all in order to protect national interests. So today the SNS performs when it covers some of its ventures, when it covers what is covered cannot be covered, the fact that negotiations in Brussels lead in a way that is not within the framework of the Constitution, which is not within a number of resolutions. We're not gonna spoil those conversations. We said we would support every agreement that is within the legal system and that offers a sustainable solution and that offers peace between Serbs and Albanians in this area. In this regard, the DS does not dispute the right of the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and the President of the State to make or make state decisions. But, of course, a serious question is raised for your voters – did you promise, or is this what you are doing now in line with what you promised your voters? We would like this survey committee to be effective, to work on a speedy procedure, not to have his work entered into some period that might have coincided with some snap elections, which, apparently, will be. Last night, we bid late nights with resignations in Brussels, not accepting resignations, etc. So we'd like this survey committee to complete its work in some future period, to round up some topics, to give conclusions and say that we did something, that we said that maybe certain institutions weren't doing what they were supposed to do and leave a trail, even if we had some satisfaction that we pointed to something that was bad, even though I say -- we're hardly going to be able to make up for it. It would also be important for the reasons why people's cuisines in Kosovo and Metohija have money to buy bread, not to collect money through SMS messages for these folk cuisines, to provide money for the most vulnerable in Kosovo and Metohija, not to be a matter of good will for people who feel all the weight of the position of people in Kosovo and Metohija, but to be systemically resolved and to make sure that the money that goes there will come into the right hands. In that sense, of course, as suggested by the establishment of this polling committee, the DS will also vote to form this survey committee and participate in it. But I remind you of Mr Stefanovic, president of the DS parliamentary group, that this polling committee may need for the president to have someone from the opposition and that there are no people on this survey board who, not necessarily, have to be from the DS, perhaps today or tomorrow may be the subject of some investigative actions, some authorities. Of course, not the board of inquiry, since he's not an investigative authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14714	Replica was reported by MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14715	The pathological fixation and the fascination of previous speaker Zoran Babiæ I don't want to do, I think it's the domain of the medical profession. (President: Please, Mr. Babie, just pay attention in the way you address the other MPs. I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it. ) But, Mr. Veselinovic, the policy of DS and Kosovo and the EU, you have shown what it means for the past 12 years. In those 12 years, both Kosovo and Metohija and the EU have been moving away from Serbia for light years. It's bad for our society, it's bad for our citizens, it's bad for Serbia. You showed what you knew and knew. On the other hand, I understand why DS doesn't understand Alexander Vukic. He doesn't understand him because he speaks frankly, because he speaks openly, because he speaks in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, says as the DS never did or will speak. Does Mr. Alexander Wolfic understand the SNS? I'll answer you. He understands it and has full support, because he is fighting for Serbia's interests, for the interests of Serbian citizens, whether they lived in Kosovo and Metohija, in Vojvodina, in Belgrade or in the rest of Serbia. And not only the SNS, the entire Serbian public, the state of Serbia has stopped from Mr. Vukic, because it is honest and just before, and since its founding and when it deals with politics, it speaks sincerely of everything that stands before us, as it is now in front of us, as societies stand hard decisions, are difficult dilemmas. Because if Serbia is at your heart, as you say, and I don't believe you, you have to understand it, you don't have to accept it, but you have to understand. The Serbian public, Serbia and SNS are with Mr. Alexander Vukic, whether you like it or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14716	Mr. Drecune, are you picking up the line? Just sign in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14717	Just to be clear. He is not the submitr of the proposal for the establishment of the polling committee, which we are talking about today, DS, but MP Milovan Drecun, in front of the SNS, who is leading a systematic and systematic fight against corruption and organised crime. A member of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, who proposed from the DS to most votes, adopted a decision to set up a survey board, but it was not enough to enter into the process of forming a survey board. Why didn't you DS gentlemen take advantage of what your member suggested on the Committee, forming a survey board, making a proposal, I don't know. I submitted it as a member of the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14718	Replica, Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14719	It is true, Mr. Babic, but I will not address you, since the Rules of Procedure order me to address the MPs of the people. So the DS had a message for citizens, for the public and for the EU and Kosovo and Metohija and the EU. Unfortunately, you have neither Kosovo nor the EU. After the election, before the election, you had the message we had. I was afraid for Mr. Babic, that in his two-minute speech he would not be able to say the name of his party president five times, he succeeded six times. So congratulations, Mr. Babic, it's certainly a great chance for you to finally become head of the parliamentary group, you're making good progress. As far as Mr Drecun is concerned, this may be a little more specific, yes, our MP suggested that a survey committee be formed. You took advantage of the fact that no one was in the assembly that day, so you filed that initiative. That's what you said today, that as a member of the SNS, not as chairman of the Committee, you submitted an initiative to form a committee of inquiry. In that sense, you did not act on the proposal of a member of the Committee, but using your right as a member of the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14720	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14721	Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, which says that the MP cannot be offended at his presentation about the MP, who is not a member of the same parliamentary group. I understand the heated debate, I understand the attempts, the wishes and the intention of certain MPs reaching out to their bosses, who may be watching this. I understand they don't understand us from DS, and here I'm going to try to make you understand me better, I'm going to put on glasses, I'm going to put my hands like this, look at me carefully. Do you understand me now? You probably understand me a little bit better now. We of the DS are telling you that we will not allow you to threaten us and insult us as much as the subject of Kosovo and Metohija, and you and your boss. As much as we have deodorants that can wash the breath of the past in your political biography, there is no deodorant that lasts forever. So please listen carefully, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14722	Replica, MP Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14723	I'm sorry the debate went this way, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, the subject is serious enough, it has not been done enough. We made it seem to me to be sufficiently clear recapitulation of the state. No word from the DS left today without being constructive. I really don't understand the reaction of my esteemed colleague Babic. I know sometimes our passions carry us, but using the term pathologically, it seems a little too much. I mean, if it's that pathological obsession or something, I don't think it's appropriate to the National Assembly. That's the first thing. Since my colleague Babic is not a psychiatrist, I believe he can't tell if anyone has a pathological or any kind of obsession. Secondly, we seem to have agreed that the distinguished colleagues from the ruling majority, at least I think we have agreed, that we understand both the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution and the laws of this country and that the opposition can and should do so in a constructive, clear way, no offense or hard words, to give its judgment on actions, moves, words, attitudes of the people of the state, the summit, as you call it. Why is it that every time a name is mentioned, I don't want to mention it, because I'm afraid you don't jump on me, this is where these emotions come out. For what? Have you heard one bad word? Have you heard anything but absolute support to come up with a solution? No, no one said a word about it, Mr. Granny. It is our duty to point to inconsistency. Kosovo and Metohija and the EU are following tonight's statement by your party president, the absolute policy of your party. Check that out before you jump to yell at us. If we drove Kosovo light years away from Serbia, don't turn a little bit further back to see where you drove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14724	Replica, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14725	I don't see what's wrong with pathology. Dear Professor Milan Knezevic is a pathologist by profession. So every time you tell him what's professional, he should apologize. But when someone's out of arguments, he puts on glasses, then plays and tries to caricate something. Why gentlemen? Do you understand the situation in which we find ourselves as a society as a state? Why are you mocking the first vice president of the government, the most responsible people in this country who are where they are, held you by the head, but here by the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, legally elected in the elections. When someone comes out and says responsibly what position we are in, what dilemmas we are facing, we will not lead our policy in the kitchen of Saper, Krstic. We don't want to wrap it up in nice slopes, make it understandable, make it nice, make the points there. We're going from the core, of the most important. For many years it has been missed in Serbia, many good opportunities have been missed because there has been no political courage, will, or anything. This is an opportunity for a major step forward by the Serbian state. Don't make it harder. You don't do politics, don't wait, you've been silent for the last two or three days. You waited here, so come on, now we're gonna represent something else and we're gonna make some points. You won't, gentlemen. Serbian citizens respect both honesty prices and as much as it hurts, these are SNS and Alexander Vukic's traits, which I don't have to make points from, because friends don't make points, friends are supported, and those relationships that you don't understand in DS, that's your problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14726	Replica, MP Milovan Dracun. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14727	When interpretation comes from the ignorance of the Rules of Procedure about the work of the National Assembly, then it must respond. The chairman of the board has no obligation to submit a formal proposal for the establishment of a polling committee, but according to the Rules of Procedure only an MP or a group of MPs can do so. That's why, as an MP, I made that proposal. Secondly, as chairman of the Committee, I was obliged to send a written notice to the president of the National Assembly that we voted in favour of forming a committee of inquiry, which was done, but that is not, I repeat, sufficient reason to proceed in the procedure. The necessary reason is what I did. I made a formal proposal. I waited, it didn't work out in one day, I didn't make a suggestion. I waited for more than a month for whoever suggested the formation of a survey board to submit a formal proposal, because it is necessary. He must appear as an MP. I didn't wait one day. When I saw that one reasonable time had passed, then I took and took it because we would not experience the degradation of the board and the decision we made on the board. Now we have formal suggestions I don't see what's controversial about it and I don't see why there's a reason for misreading it. If you want any MPs to credit themselves because we're going to form a committee of inquiry, I have nothing against it. As chairman of the board, I was proud that we, as a government and opposition, had established a single position that it was necessary to form a committee of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14728	Replica, MP Borisav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14729	Please, Mr. President, since I really don't think anyone's interested in this, teach the MP how to do it because it's not our job. Secondly, if you won't, and I know that you can, here I am giving everything and a medal, you're good at it, in giving it to you personally, you're responsible for this polling committee, you brought it in, and it's completely irrelevant. Let's see if he does anything. Here, I'm telling you, don't explain everything to us anymore. We accept, you're responsible, we didn't do the job, you did it, that's the first thing. Another thing, no one can tell DS what to say, and what they can't say, I guess it's a normal thing, like we can't tell you what you can't say, what you can't say. Even if someone pointed out inconsistency, unpreparedness, incompetence in the negotiation process, you undermine national interest. That's unserious. We want to help the national interest, not to subdue it, but as soon as we say something, it jumps immediately for no reason at all. For what? What kitchens are you talking about? Do you mean that kitchen where three chefs go to cook dinner, so we come back by hearing that the chef offered to resign? Is that the kitchen of that Mickey guy who sells white technique and doesn't pay taxes? Is that the kitchen? Do you have anyone who's competent and hasn't graduated from a correspondence school in this country? Then you stand up and speak such qualifications, unnecessary. So you can't say anything. We've had this debate a hundred times here. When will you give us the seal that we can speak freely in a free country? When are we gonna get that befel from you where's the counter office for quick answers to get that answer? Tell me. I want an answer when we as free citizens can say if we notice you're not doing something right? (President: Time. That's dangerous. It's entering the authoritarian regime, which is what makes Serbian citizens more afraid of being chosen to have answers, not to say on the first corner that you don't know what to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14730	Replica. Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14731	Somehow lately whenever an affair is opened, whenever someone is processed, they say – it's political acuity. Whenever a critical tone is referred to DS, rightly, reasoned, for a reason, justified, it is immediately said – authoritarian regime. You say that, you have come out of such a regime with the electoral will of the Serbian citizens. Speaking of competences or incompetence, you know, I graduated from the Faculty of Engineering in Belgrade in 1996. I signed up in 1990. In that same college, I found and left Mr. Sutanovac, who was the highest official of DS, not only at height but also by what he was doing in the former and previous governments, left him to graduate a year or month after five-octobaric changes, somehow, in a magical way with 10, 12, 15 exams in a month. Are those competencies, Mr. Stefanovic? Is that something right and what it's supposed to be? As for our policy, I think it's hypocritical when a responsible man goes into the media, as someone did two days ago, and said, "Here, we saved KIM because we were dealing with some territorial things, not essentially, not what is now being put before this government of the Republic of Serbia and before us as a society and as a state."
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14732	Replica. People's MP Milovan Dracun.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14733	I'm not talking about the merits of forming a survey board, but I just want to clarify some of the things that have been brought out here and aren't true. The more I experienced the political adviser of the ambassadors of a very powerful Western state asking me a direct question – why did this MP and that MP, not to mention, sue the ambassador of the National Assembly and the SNS for not wanting to form a polling committee? Now, that's a lie to be responded to. If someone wanted to be honest with the committee of inquiry, they would have submitted a formal proposal, and they wouldn't have gone to sue the president of the National Assembly and the SNS if we didn't want the formation of a survey board, and none of our members were in a place where they could abuse the spending of state money in a period treated by the survey board. That's the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14734	Replica. National MP Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14735	This has become completely pointless and I won't answer again, nor will anyone from the DS. I'm not going to comment on this previous performance of my colleague because it's below each level, as is the measurement of whether anyone was in the fourth, first, fifth year. You know what I could say about the President of the Republic now, you assume, so I won't say. I think it's even better if I don't say it, but it's like I said it. What is certain is that such qualifications will not help Serbia in this situation, as it will not help the qualifications that this is the biggest disaster in history, that Mr Marko Djuric comes out with a crying voice saying that the people thought that we, the minors, were bombarding us, as neither will the situation in which no one talks to anyone, and parliament is being attacked because he wants to hear what the offer is. I even think it's completely legitimate, because no one wants to get away but wants to help, and especially wants to help reach a deal, not make a deal, to be precise. So that's where we understand each other? What makes you think there's some sort of fixation? First of all, there's no fixation. We are obliged, as representatives of citizens, to say that today, a younger Miskovic has left prison, and that is the fact, and that this is now a problem, such as the problem that no one, by letters, by number-zero, has arrested in this country for the crime of corruption. Nobody. And when I tell you, you know it's a fact. It is for abuse of official office and other dangerous crimes, but now that I'm telling you, that's the problem of this country. You think I have something against you now? I don't. I just want, like the entire Democratic Party, to call things by name, not to make a name, not to make one man's rule, but to all stop, so we can help if we need help. (President: Time. If not, then tell us. But we don't allow Stigmatization, pausal evaluations, stereotypes, false accusations. That's not right. You'll never hear that from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14736	The replica, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14737	Now let's see if I've got some things right. Does this mean, Mr. Stefanovic, that you have now said, yes, we are prepared as responsible people to see what was put in place and what dilemma was put before us as a state, as a society, as a government, as a people, we will jointly make that decision? No matter what decision it makes, it won't be easy and we've spoken it honestly. There will be no reason to celebrate or parade anywhere, but we will bring it along with understanding of the situation we have found ourselves in. This government of the Republic of Serbia has not missed opportunities. The government of the Republic of Serbia immediately tackled the most significant and major problems. But from your story, especially from the story of your colleagues, I couldn't recognize such a good will. I only recognized the attempt to earn small daily-political points that will be forgotten in half an hour, but here, I ask you responsibly and look ourselves in the eye as responsible and grown-up people – are you ready for us all to stand in one row together, to make a difficult decision in the next 96 hours? At such an invitation, if you listened carefully, and I believe you listened carefully, Mr. Alexander Vukic also called. Are you ready for something like that? Are you ready to make such a decision together?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14738	National MP Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14739	I do apologize, and to all my fellow MPs and president of the assembly for taking my word, but I think it was a direct question, so it's my turn. There's a few things. First, the Democratic Party is always, and now it will be ready to take responsibility. We don't have to learn what the word responsibility means. So it's, like, knock on the open door. Let me get that straight first. The other thing is, so far, no one's asked us anything, asked for help, asked for support, asked for advice, asked for an opinion. You had some people on the middle and lower level who were let into the media to tell the biggest, most disgusting lies, structures. I'm only talking about this process, about the Democratic Party. This is all I'm talking about right now. There were no messages like this from a serious type of call to unity. Third thing, the citizens chose you to solve problems. You were chosen by the citizens to make changes. You also have to accept it as a fact that you can't say in this situation right now – we don't know what to do or we have no idea where we're going to go and we won't accept responsibility. It's your responsibility, but we're ready in the interest of this country, in all things, in every place to help, to say, stop whatever needs to be done. Therefore, there are people who have experienced the ultimate point of politics of some of you in the past. When I say the end point, I mean the war. However, these are situations that must be avoided. The joy of extreme political structures in Serbia by failing you is the best indicator that this must be better, that it must be more serious, that responsibility and risk must be clearly taken and when it is not popular. When someone tells you that, you get angry. There's my problem, and there's the DS problem. There's no one to blame this party for holding. There's no calculations. If it was a calculation, we could easily say a lot of things negative for this process, be sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14740	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14741	Thank you, Your Honor. Article 106 of Article 1 has been broken. If I have to read to my colleagues, I will also quote it – the speaker can only talk about the point on the agenda. Please, Mr. President, stop this debate. We don't want to listen to who suggested, who didn't. Well, we all agreed together to propose the formation of a survey board. Please continue on the agenda and slowly bring this debate to an end. I appeal to my colleagues, and if they want to continue, let them continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14742	Mr. Risticevic can't get a word in an hour. In a desire to allow him to come to the word I ask Mr. Stojanovic if he wants to give up his injury to the Rules of Procedure and give the word to Mr. Risticevic. (Momir Stojanovic, from the post: I can't give up on words.) You can't? The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14743	Dear Chairman, last time I listened to you, but let me disobey you this time. I'm advertising a breach of members 106 and 107. With deep respect to everything that has been said, I must say that there has been controversy here which school the president of the Republic of Serbia has finished. I'm sure he graduated from the school of patriotism, patriotism and statehood. The school has proved through its political career and I believe that a huge number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia agree. There were comments here that three chefs went to Brussels, cooked up, and now they're delivering dramatic information around that kitchen. Mr. Stefanovic, I think the government has cooked everything alive from 2000 to 2012, and this government has fallen to try to make peace in some way on what's cooked to taste something. They're not chefs from this government, they're trying to save what's cooked up in the last 12 years. You mentioned Mr. Djuric. I know that you are very sorry that in your ranks you do not have such a young, honorable, honest, responsible member who, even according to the statements of members of the negotiating team, honorably and responsibly defends Serbia's interests in Kosovo and Metohija. We are proud of Mr. Djuric and I would recommend that you have many more members of your ranks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14744	I think we can finish this cycle of replicas. Mr. Risticevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14745	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I believe that democracy is a difference and there is a victory in the majority and the right of the minority within these differences. This controversy best proves that minority rights are highly respected. One of the evidence that today's ruling coalition respects minority rights is this proposal submitted by counterpart Drecun. He submitted it at the request, i.e. on a proposal from the opposition MP to the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, and, since the conclusion was voted on, where not proposed, by counterpart Drecun took and proposed what was the minority's request. This step of democracy compared to the last regime doesn't need to be proved any more. Imagine the situation that in the past regime someone suggested the formation of such an opinion committee from the opposition, that someone voted on the KIM Committee and then the ruling MP suggested it to this Assembly, it would be an impossible mission. Propose this at a time when in Serbia, Europe, the country is on probation, at a time when great forces exert outrageous pressure to complete the policy of the former regime and to create a sovereign Kosovo in unsuspecting Serbia, so this is an exceptional courage. More evidence for the democracy of this government is that a proposal on the education of this polling committee, which should deal with abuses, allows each parliamentary group, regardless of its power, to have one representative. Imagine that it happened at the time of the party's former regime, that they allowed a survey committee to be formed without respecting their political forces. In this poll committee, the SNS parliamentary group, in which I am a representative of the People's Peasants' Party, will have one representative, as well as a parliamentary group numbering five MPs. The number of opposition representatives on this polling committee will be greater than the number of representatives from the ruling coalition. By simple calculation, how many parliamentary groups there are, how many opposition groups, and how many ruling and you will come to the majority being opposition MPs. And yet in this debate I feel the dissatisfaction of those who, in my opinion, are the most responsible for the increasingly difficult position of our population in KIM. No one hit them in the ears to change resolutions and replace UNMIK with EULEX. Today's difficult negotiations, very difficult, are the result, not the result of some of the diplomas mentioned here. After an agreement with Edith Tahiri, I fear that many diplomas, tons and tons will arrive in Serbia, and that we will have to admit it because someone has given himself the right to admit it on behalf of this country, and that kind of diploma. I remember the party of the former regime since 2000. The president then said that our right, the right of Serbia to KiM cannot disappear. He also said that if our international reputation depends on sacrificing our national interests, that in that case we should not. Those who continue his act and act apparently deviated from it a few years later. I also remember well that all of us, who were then members of the ruling coalition, were forbidden to participate in the provisional institutions of the state of Kosovo. That's what Mr. Jaksic remembers. If by any chance a member of the People's Peasants' Party had entered the government of Hashim Thaci, he would not have been excluded, he would have had to take their daughters and their citizenship, he would no longer have returned to me here. Only an Albanian with a ketchet could come back. Politics, both Kosovo and Europe could have both politics and Thaci and Cvetkovic. So, not only did they have a minister in Thaci's government but, behold, miracles, by deviating from the politics of Zoran Djindjic, the same man becomes minister in the government of Mr Cvetkovic. That can't happen to one of my party members. So even after all, Mr. Drecun has proposed the formation of this committee of inquiry. You, my dear Members, do not lose, I am talking about the committee of inquiry, do not have any illusions that this topic and the formation of the committee of inquiry, that various statements will be made by the members of the committee of inquiry and that is one of the reasons why this is proposed on the KIM Committee. To be abused by those same media who claimed that abuses on KIM were enormous, that Serbs with KIM had gambled, smuggled huge money from the Republic of Serbia's budget. I wish the same party would propose to form, let's say, a polling committee to investigate the abuses of the Capital Investment Fund or the Vojvodina Development Bank. A team before it's a little easier to determine here than it is to determine on KIM since our institutions there cannot exercise control until the end. We all remember some media, and don't let us have the illusion that it won't happen again, which, as a crown proof, depicts oil spilling into a smaller tanker. In the same way, all of us in Vojvodina who deal with agriculture and tanks and buy more than 1,000 liters of fuel, in the same way NIS and other tanks deliver that fuel, and in the same way pour in less tanks than 1,000, 2,000 and 3,000 liters. So, those who deal seriously with agriculture or some business, those who heat all the rooms on oil or on diesel, thus supply fuel. It was crown proof on one television, that abuse was committed, and don't have any illusions that it won't happen again that some members of the polling board are jumping out and using it through these means of information, showing God's great abuse of funds from the budget, people living on KIM. Be assured that budget funds have not been misused by kiMs or peasants or workers. They don't rob the state. They were robbed by a former government in the state. So, if there was an abuse, there was a road between Belgrade and end-users. The government did not make this parliamentary group here, we could not be responsible for this kind of abuse that took place on the path of the Republic of Serbia's end-user budget. I believe that there was smuggling and abuse, that's for sure, but I also believe that the percentage of these abuses was nothing greater than he was in Vojvodina, but was in central Serbia. So, our society was during the rule of the former regime and how it was subject to abuse, budget breakdown, corruption of other people's money, both in Vojvodina, in central Serbia, so I believe that it was at KIM, and I believe that the survey board will find some of the abuses that have happened. I repeat, the peasants who were mostly left in KIM, those who were tied to the country, those who knew what the country was, those who were defending the country, those who were in the Kosharam, those who were on my street, relatives and neighbors who were bleeding in the Kosharam know very well that the one who transferred it to them today couldn't get the gun, but they gave him the shovel to clean the ruins. They couldn't give him a gun because they didn't know which side they were going to shoot, whether it was ours or the NATO pact. Today, they have to listen to this debate, today those who have been in Kosharam, who have been pulling out their dead comrades, who have come out wounded, who have come out disabled, who have gone out in traumas, have to listen to those who are the most responsible, or after various governments in the last period, are the most responsible for the difficult situation and possible abuses that have taken place at KIM, in terms of budget. Since the robbery was done, and there was also talk of fairy tales and Kosovo and Europe the fairy tale was told by the former regime. While he was telling that fairy tale, he built himself castles. Now we have their golden castles and their orphanages in containers and in cardboard boxes. This should be borne in mind that it was the greatest abuse, the most functional abuse. It should be questioned throughout Serbia, regardless of who was in which city, who was the ruling coalition, who was the president of the municipality, who was the Prime Minister, who were ministers, who were members of the council? On behalf of those who defended Koshara, I hope it will come again, that there will be a change of international circumstances, that there will come a time and opportunity for a new courage, and then we will see, then we will see who will take this opportunity for courage. Remember, those in the baskets know that humans are mortal, but the glory of freedom fighters never dies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14746	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer signed up for the floor, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not yet used their right under Article 96, want the word. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14747	Thank you. I can see that my colleagues are in a hurry, but I'd just like to finish. If you're in a hurry, you're free, since you're yelling "wow," I really don't have a word. I could've listened to a pointless discussion between DS and SNS for an hour and now you're yelling "whoa" if I want to close the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14748	Mr. Radenkovic, you go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14749	Thank you. I honestly don't even know where to start after a debate like this, which I would normally like to praise, that there have been no ruthless scenes as they always do when the topic on Kosovo is on the agenda. It's going nicely, very constructively. What I would like to do in front of the SPS parliamentary group, I will ignore all this, to conclude that we hope and we are confident that the Committee of Auditors will help the competent authorities to respond and that they must be brought to justice. It's just, for one very important reason, to get rid of the common people who are being tortured down there, because after that media stunt, it turns out that the man who lives in difficult conditions, that he stole something and that someone in Serbia saw him as someone who got rich. I also have to point out that undetectable perpetrators are complicity in such, say, anti-state work, because that's all that was done was anti-state work. There was no other intention. As much as it hits someone, I didn't want to share the details and my knowledge today and what the citizens of the past term have written to me for both of them and for the other and for the third. There are people from all parties. I hope that the Committee of Auditors in a constructive work will help the competent authorities to reach the perpetrator of these works. Thank you. I hope I was brief.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-03-0.u14750	I'm concluding a joint single search. I'm finishing work for today. We'll continue tomorrow at 11.00 p.m. Dear People's MPs, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on the official record of the session, I find that the session is attended by 106 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 95 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Since it is Thursday, MPs have the right under Article 287(2). The Rules of Procedures ask for a notice and an explanation. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary group, want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Here you go.
