ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16745	President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you remember a little while ago, there was a shooting at Adi Gypsies in Belgrade. There in the fight and that shooting, life-threatening injuries were sustained by a girl, Tamara Radulovic, who unfortunately succumbed to injuries from a stray bullet. Of course it's essential that the perpetrators of this crime get caught. Since they were not available to the authorities of the same night and the next days, an APB was called, that's what we learned from the media. Some of the participants in the fight have already been arrested, stemming from Novi Sad, and the two wanted by an arrest warrant, which is reasonably suspected that one of them fired the fatal bullet, Filip Vilotijevic and Vukasin Smiljanic, were arrested by Kosovo police in Peća. Now, of course, there is an interesting situation. How the authorities of the prosecution of Serbia, the MUP and the judicial authorities reach these two suspects, a person suspected of committing the crime. Of course, what we heard as information, and that's why I'm asking questions here today to get official information, that's that organs are so-called. Independent Kosovo states have asked us to launch a practical extradition process. My first question, which I will refer to the minister of justice, and I would like to ask the minister in writing to justify my question – was such communication also whether or not there is a intention of this Serbian state to initiate the extradition procedure in relations with another part of its own country? If that is not possible, and I do not think it is legally possible, what will be done to bring these two suspects to justice in the state of Serbia? Is it possible that the Ministry of Justice will address Eulex and what kind of communication it will be? What other type of document, or activity, will be made to get these two suspects? We have heard that there is even one idea to have their stay in KIM territory, and in which, as the newspaper also writes to the son of Heljmendi, the famous drug lord son, and helped to find them there, to treat their presence as an illegal crossing of the border, and then to surrender them to the state authorities of Serbia after being escorted by the Kosovo police. There's a valid question to ask. How can there be an illegal crossing of the so-called. Borders within the same country? So, I'm not pleading anything, I'm just asking the question of the Justice Minister, and ultimately the Home Secretary who is the Prime Minister, how do they think this case ends, because the way this particular case is solved will also depend on a general view of Belgrade and Pristina's relations? Of course we all care that these suspected criminals are ours as soon as possible behind bars and before the Belgrade competent court for the crimes they committed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16746	The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16747	Dear President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I will first look back on the position we have taken as a parliamentary club in the formation of this call for parliament, in which we have said that we will support everything that is right. In this sense, we will once again give support in the fight against crime and corruption on the determination of the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, but we believe that certain ministries must and that certain people from the government must also follow that determination, and first of all, this should refer to a different tax policy, therefore to the Ministry of Finance, because many people, in the previous years, have used the holes in the law in the previous years, and are allegedly doing everything by law to gain capital that is single and that is not in line with their business. In that sense, I would like to ask a question that I have already asked several times, and I will be fenced from the new agenda for the fourth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, because we received this agenda today just before the beginning of this session, so I could not have full insight into the legal acts it contains. I will ask whether the finance ministry, does Minister Mladjan Dinkic even consider transferring the tax burden from behind the poorest to the capital and property of the wealthy and the richest? In that sense, I also talked about a previous period of examples of highly developed democratic countries. There's a lot to be done if we follow a fly that, say in Norway, criminal or tax policy is different for the richest than those who are poor. For example, a fine of 1,000 dinars will not have the same effect on one who has a salary of 30,000 dinars or on some Serbian sheik who earns millions and millions of euros. We talked about it a long time ago. We have long asked for a different tax policy to be imposed on a lowly citizen. I hope that, in that sense, the Ministry of Finance will hear and listen to everything the SPO-DHSS Parliament Club said in the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16748	Thank you. The word has been sent by the people Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16749	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a question for the Prime Minister, the first Deputy Prime Minister, all government ministers and representatives of the ruling coalition -- when will you stop lying to Serbia, admit that you have brutally lied, proposing an unreal budget for 2013 and acknowledging that the country is on the verge of bankruptcy? The Liberal Democratic Party does not ask us to recognise what we told you on 27 October 2012 that the budget that you then proposed to Serbia and this Parliament is a simple statistical trick, that it has artificially bloated incomes and artificially reduced expenditures, that you made a disastrous decision when you decided to increase the tax on the additional value of excise duties and other tax burdens, that we would lose a whole year because you refused to enter any essential reforms and that your budget would last until April or May. Of course, we were, like all other things, and then we were right and of course you weren't naive and you understood that we were right, but you deliberately lied to Serbia. Since it took you 10 years for the Prime Minister to admit that you lied about Kosovo, and not only did he think about himself and his own party at the time, but he also meant all other parties that were ruling or supporting as opposition such politics and the SRS of the former and present-day SNS, DS, G17 and almost all other parties in this parliament, you can't act as a budget because you can't exactly lie to people for 10 or 15 years, and then you can lie to four months, and then come up with catastrophic numbers, which show that the planned amount of deficits will be met or spent by June. I don't know what this government is planning to do on July 1st, when it turns out that the deficit is going to be twice as big as planned? You can choose the path you have chosen with aflatoxin, to declare on 1 January 2013 and then have a new budget, and that you can boast around that you did not miss the budget projections. The Liberal Democratic Party is not acting cowardly in politics. And of course, for all the problems that Serbia has in the economy, in the social sector, in tax policy and budget, is not solely one party or minister run by the finance ministry. The failure of the economy, the collapse of fiscal, economic policy in this country is the result of the work of the entire government, political mistakes by the government, the idea that a whole public political life can be reduced to demagogy, to populism, to the occasional rise of tensions over Kosovo's negotiations and Brussels. During the week we discuss Brussels and Kosovo, then Saturday morning is reserved for spectacular arrests. The country is going crazy Saturday and Sunday with it, so from Monday a new circle, except it can't go on forever. A million people don't have jobs in this country. Thousands of schools in this country don't have running water and children use squatters. Well, as Kosovo and Europe couldn't, so neither can the squatter and Europe. Something has to be done in this country. You can't wander around and lie to people anymore. Either declare bankruptcy and propose budget rebalances that will include serious structural reforms or withdraw. You've produced chaos in this country. When you raised your value added tax and excise tax, we clearly told you that you would cause two things – a hole in the budget, because you can't just raise your rates, increase last year's planned revenues and say everything is fine in the budget. That's one consequence. That's why there's so many holes in the budget. The second consequence is that you have re-initiated smuggling, gray and black economy in this country. When you raised to an abnormal amount of excise duty, for example, on tobacco products, you immediately produced smuggling. That's why tax revenues are dropping today, and that's why you have a hole that's going to be two billion euros by the end of the year. A million and 700,000 people who work in this country can't work enough, can't produce enough money to keep yelling skin off their backs every month from pay or every day when they buy goods in stores to support the rest of the unsustainable system. Either bankruptcy or rebalancing or back off. This is my question for the government – what will they do with those three things?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16750	The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16751	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I wanted to ask the government about two very important issues, but this morning, when I entered the Parliament's club, a courier arrived on my desk and put a hundred other MPs on six new tax laws that should represent a reform of the tax system in Serbia. It would be no wonder, this is a direct question for you, President of the Assembly, that after five or ten minutes we have not received a call for the Assembly for tomorrow to discuss these laws. So, six system laws, which Dinkic allegedly wrote, and Vukic when he came back from some road, said that nothing was wrong. We don't know what we've got now, and it takes 24 hours to give our position, and we know how you pass laws and what laws you've passed and what you've caused with that law, first of all bearing in mind the position and standard of citizens. Mr. Stefanovic, using the mildest possible dictionary, I ask you how did you allow this scandal? Is this your warrant or is it one of your party bosses? How do you think about tax reform, what do you call these laws, about major tax changes, and we know it's just budget recovery, let's discuss it in 24 hours? It's going to happen like it did with the budget, the Change and Budget Supplements Act. We understand what will happen to these laws, what their consequences will be. It is that citizens will absolutely feel it in their pocket, on their standard, that there will be no investment in local self-government and in homes of health, help pregnant women, children, building local infrastructure, because you will now withdraw all the money you have spent from local self-government and thus push directly into the citizens' pocket. Mr. Chairman, how can you bring such important laws, which you are likely to bring together under the old recipe, a debate on all six laws and introduce Serbia into an even deeper crisis, and a political but also serious economic crisis and a serious economic threat to all its citizens? My second question is for the government, a follow-up from last time, a very serious question. We witnessed this weekend the rampage of the hooligan derby, at the sports concerts. In these wildlings again, the faces that you, the ruling majority, SNS etc., have amnested. They were the leaders of these savagery. I asked the last time how many of those faces were committed in the meantime. It is by all accounts that they are now the ones who create social circumstances, the circumstances in which we live, and these are the circumstances of fear for the safety of the citizens, for the safety of the children, for the safety of the youth. The fact is that we're turning into an insecure and unsettled country where criminals are released and released, and you're the Kobajagi fighting crime. You don't show that in practice. Once again I ask the Ministry of Justice – how many of these persons you have amnested and who you have let go of have committed crimes and what will they do within their jurisdiction to prevent the re-enactment of criminal acts from being committed by those persons? I wouldn't mind cops doing their job responsibly this time, but they can't fight criminals who come in one door and you let them out the back door. So once again I ask the Ministry of Justice – what will they do about it? I wanted to start another topic today, and this is a question of a large number of casinos, a large number of young people who enter them, although they are forbidden by law and a great social problem that causes citizens, families of these people, because in Serbia there are about 300,000 people depending on the cube. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16752	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? There is a word from MP Sasa Dujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16753	The Honorable President, dear colleagues, I have three questions and I will ask them in the following order: The first question is for the Minister of Defence – what is the plan of the Ministry on the resolution of numerous lawsuits filed by military pensioners, over 70,000 lawsuits are currently under trial, which in front of the International Court of Justice? This will be a huge problem because it is military pensioners who have sought their rights before the judicial authorities. Those rights are clearly under the applicable laws of the Republic of Serbia and are subject to a huge amount of money that the state of Serbia will have to pay off to military pensioners because some legal right is not respected until the end. The second question is for the government of Serbia and Minister Rasim Ljajic, head of the Office for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal in resignation, as far as I am informed – how does the state of Serbia care about our citizens in The Hague tribunal, those who are not legally convicted, those who have the opportunity to prove that they are innocent of what they are accused of? Is the state of Serbia towards them and their families doing something to help them overcome these difficult times in which they are located? I refer to the families of those of our citizens who are in The Hague tribunal and their problems. The third question is for you, President of the Assembly – when are you planning to put on the agenda for MPs to declare the law on martial law that I have put in the procedure of the beginning of this term, the beginning of this call to the Assembly and which cannot yet come here on the agenda? In fact, these days, given the circumstances, we see that the second-degree authority of the International Court of Justice in Strasbourg is in good shape to confirm the first-degree verdict and that the state is burdened by some, many, about 200m euros in commitments to war veterans. It will be a huge blow to the state of Serbia and to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, a budget that is also empty, a budget that is social issues. The adoption of a law on martial law would greatly warn all possible things that war veterans and fighters, and ultimately Serbian citizens, are seeking their rights. The law currently in force is the 1998 Law, and it's already time to adopt a new one. I've been doing this the third time, the fourth time. As a People's MP, I have handed over the law, respected all the procedures necessary to put it on the agenda, for adoption, to be debated at all, and now I ask you when you plan to hand over the law, because we see some other laws coming by emergency procedure. It's okay when the government sends but also certain parliamentary groups when they send or MPs they come quickly to the agenda. Obviously, there's something wrong with it. So I would ask you to answer when you plan to put the law on the agenda and have the MPs discuss it and plead? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16754	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16755	Thank you. First of all, I want to thank you for the answer I received from the finance ministry on March 25th for the question I asked on February 12th of this year. First of all, I mean information that I believe will interest a large number of our citizens who have acquired the right to so-called. Free actions of public enterprises and actions of the Action Fund, that the restoring ministry has seen the anachronity and inapplicability of the existing law and that it plans to amend this law this year. However, the reason why I am asking the additional question is the final paragraph in the reply, which stands – the action of the Action Fund and the Privatisation Agency in individual cases, and also regarding bids for takeover, is within the competence of those entities which have an obligation to act in the public interest, in accordance with the rules and regulations of the profession. In particular, there was an offer to take over the actions of Belgrade-based "Fricoma", for which 95% of the majority owner of "Ledo" from Zagreb was ready to pay the price of 17,186 dinars per action, the same price at which he previously bought a complete "Frikom" from Croatia's Agrokora. I felt that this price was more than correct given the accounting value of the actions and I asked the question – will the state sell, through those entities, 24,667 shares that are held as ownership of the Stock Fund and fill that stock fund of 420 million dinars? Not even a moment in doubt that the Privatisation Agency and the Action Fund are working in the interest of citizens, according to regulations and rules of the profession, but I still have to find out the following. The basic motive for retaining existing actions in its possession can be the expectation that the value of these actions will increase and that the revenue from their sale will be greater. However, this possibility in a particular case is very low, since the actions "Frikoma" are not traded on the stock market. Another option that did not lead to the sale of four decimal points is the possibility of a dividend created at the end of the year by Belgrade's "Frikoma". However, this possibility is also wasteful because such large systems invest that dividend money in new projects and new investments. The third option to actively influence the management of the company through a package of actions it owns is also impossible since Belgrade's "Frike" has 4.6% of the shares. So the only possibility to come is to execute so-called. A squishy car, which means a house as big as Ledo can pay off the stockholders at any time. My question is, why is it waiting? Isn't it better to have 420 million dinars in the Action Fund and then invest that money wisely and invest the revenues from these investments in something other than waiting every month to lose those additional revenues that can be obtained in this way? Once again, I ask the representatives of the finance ministry that, taking into account all these facts, answer my question specifically why did not the sale of shares of Belgrade's "Frikom" action occur? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16756	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milovan Dracun.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16757	Dear Presidents, MPs, since I do not see a shift in the determination of responsibilities and the processing of crimes committed primarily against Serbian peoples at the premises of the previous Yugoslavia, in KIM, I would like to ask the Ministry of Justice a few questions. First, how many Serbian citizens pay for the war crimes prosecution's annual work and what are the salaries of the prosecutor's office? Then how many cases are the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office currently in the works? Third, is it normal that in a country that leads to corruption and organised crime, the prosecutor for organised crime has fewer deputies than the war crimes prosecutor has that, if I'm not mistaken, there are even eight deputies? Fourthly, is Deputy War Crimes Prosecutor Bruno Vekaric legally elected to the post, or is he constitutionally in office, given that he did not go through the National Assembly, but was appointed by the State's Major Prosecutors as permanent? I failed to find a decision on the verification of the public prosecutorial function of Bruno Vekaric in the National Assembly documentation. Fifthly, was the co-operation of the Centre for Transition Processes, the shut down of NGOs, with the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office and the payment of high fees by the centre to some members of the prosecution, such as Bruno Vekaric, fully in accordance with the law? One of the copyright contracts between Bruno Vekaric and the Transition Process Centre is worth 300,000 dinars. I'm asking you the next question, Mr. President, but at the same time I'm asking the Department of Justice. Do you know that Nevena Petrusic, the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality of the Republic of Serbia, has filed a criminal report to the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, which was filed under the number of KTR2257/13 at six points, among other things, for the transfer of money to Texas and the route to Australia, for the acquisition of property benefits, for her own assistant at the Faculty of Law in Nis, public procurement for the reconstruction of space, non-intentional spending of money on the PR and recreation, the provision of services to civil society organisations, which should be a conflict of interest, and part of the criminal application was filed on the basis of the findings of the administrative inspection. The criminal charges were filed by a man who was an assistant by 31 January 2013. Nevena Petrusic was just reported. Among other things, what particularly intrigued me in my application, it says that the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16758	Please, Mr. Drecun, bringing facts from criminal charges filed by private persons is at least inappropriate to the National Assembly. Someone could go against any MP to file a criminal report and then read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16759	I'll rephrase. I ask this - why did the Anti-Corruption Agency not make a decision after more than 130 days whether there was a conflict of interest in the case of Ms. Nevena Petrusic, who was reported by one of the employees in the institution last year for corruption and conflict of interest. It is serious indications that the Trustee for the Protection of Equality has worked part-time for several NGOs, which has material evidence in the form of contracts and transfers to the current account of the Trustee, that she has worked part-time for other persons, e.g. multiple times for the Judicial Academy, that she worked and worked as a regular professor of the Faculty of Law in Nis for the entire duration of her term as Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Then, the findings of the Department of Justice and State Administration's administrative inspectorate. The inspection supervision, I quote, found that keeping basic records of acts and cases in the expert service of the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, as well as their registration in the shortened employer up to 14. 2. In 2013, it was not carried out in accordance with the regulations on office operations. It's about one thing that should be interesting to us as MPs and the Assembly, because it's about the next thing. To hand in the notice she was obliged to deliver within eight days of 30. 11. In 2012, and she didn't do it in time, she actually planted a document with a forged number in the accountant and placed the number 2103/2012. Just to remind you, Mr. President, when Commissioner Nevena Petrusic sent you a memo, she seduced him under order number 2070 and sent it to you 24. 12, and then he seduces the letter of 7. 12 under 2103. How is that possible? (President: Time. ) I think that as a Assembly based on a quoted criminal report, you would not have allowed me to quote, okay, I didn't want, the documentation that was made available to me as a MP, as a matter of fact...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16760	Mr. Drecun, I can't let you continue. It's five minutes and 37 seconds. We get the point of your question.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16761	One more sentence. I think a procedure must be initiated to determine whether there is a basis for determining the responsibility and resolution of the trustee Nevena Petrusic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16762	Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of the National Parliament of the Police Dronjak. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that on the occasion of the search in detail of the 4th item of the agenda – the draft law on the publication of laws and other regulations and acts, in addition to the representative Nikola Selaković, Minister of Justice and State Administration and Prof. Dr. Dejan Đurđević, Director of the Republic Secretariat for Legislatives, invited the sittings to attend: Gordana Stamenić, State Secretary of Justice and State Administration, Gradimir Nenadovic, Deputy Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, Nadezda Mitrić Žitko and Ranka Vujovic, Assistant Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law and Željko Curguz, Senior Advisor in the Republic Secretariat for Law. We continue to work and move on the search in detail on the fourth item of the agenda - Proposal for a LAW ON THE PUBLICATION OF LAWS AND OTHER REGULATIONS AND ACTAS You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Marković, Jovan Palalić and Milica Radović and the amendment of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. You have received the Report of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Amendments. The amendment was written by MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic, who submitted to the members of the 1st and 2nd with the correction, to the title above Articles 5 and 5 and to Articles 18, 19 and 30. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Proposal for adding a new title above members and members 2. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Jovan Palalic together submitted an amendment proposing to add a new title above members and Article 2 after article 1. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16763	My colleagues from the DSS and I have proposed to add a new member to this bill, as you have read, the title above this new article 2, so that would be in this section where the general provisions are, the title is "Language". That's where we suggest adding three new attitudes. I talked about this even when I was talking about it in principle, but I'll do it again. In the first position, we propose the following – laws and other regulations, as well as other acts, are published in Serbian in a Cyrillic letter. Another new position we are proposing is: international agreements and other international acts, as well as European Court of Human Rights rulings, are also published in one of the world languages in which they are concluded, or concluded. A third view – that the regulations and other acts adopted by the local self-government authority in addition to the Serbian language are also published in the language of the national minority in accordance with the law. The legislator, this is Mr. Djurdjevic, representing the legislator. We also discussed it in principle. That's what we got in the explanation for why it's not being accepted. You're saying that the issue of official language use is the subject of editing the Law on official use of language and letter and that's something we all know and that's understood. However, I felt that this provision should also stand in one of these laws, and that what it says is regulated by some other law, is not a very basic argument, which is why it should be rejected. When it comes to this second position, that international agreements and other international acts, as well as European Court of Human Rights rulings, are usually the original language. So, it's mostly that, although some other world languages are in circulation, it's mostly English, and then it's only a translation in the official messenger. Why I insisted and stayed on it, and I would like you to accept this amendment, so because it often happens in everyday practice for certain terms to be interpreted differently. It is mainly about the different policy options that are interpreted differently, how they are comfortable and how they think it suits them, as far as day-to-day policies are concerned. I'll remind you of, I think it was last year, when it was signed, when the team that took part in the so-called. Negotiations with Kosovo Albanians, when the protocol was signed, was not an agreement but was then already a protocol with Kosovo Albanians on integrated border management. In English, it's "integratededboarder controls", and otherwise I'm a professor of English, so I think I'm here at least professional enough, that that word "boarder" that really and only means the border, when it comes to states, that we're MPs and we're citizens who've experienced and heard that they've translated the word "boarder" the way it suits them. The Democratic Party of Serbia has asked for answers – how is it possible to sign such a protocol that talks about integrated border management? Then we got answers that it wasn't an integrated border management protocol, it was actually a cross-border management protocol. So that word was interpreted as a transition, or that it was an agreement, or a protocol on administrative crossings. That was absolutely not true. It really was, as we can see today because from mistake to error, it was actually a protocol on integrated border management. I believe that in this law it is a place for any such agreement to be published and in the language in which it is signed, especially when we in the Assembly are given the ratification of contracts and agreements, we also get the original version, mainly in English, and we get the translation. There, in practice, the "Official Messenger" would not appear as someone now needs to provide translation, but rather those agreements, and hopefully those that the Government has directed that are not subject to ratification, that they too can be published in the original language, in order to stop this game of different translation and ultimately accuse the translators of being a bad translation. The third stance speaks of some acts that local self-government has decided to publish in the Official Messenger. I pulled those amendments, and you're absolutely right, because in the wrong member I predicted that local self-government was publishing some acts. True, it is not an obligation of local self-government, but very often local self-government decides to publish some of its acts in the Official Messenger, although they do not have the obligation. In most official messengers you have one chapter where it says - local self-government, but it is, it is not an obligation and I have withdrawn these amendments. However, I remain in this position to believe that when an act that is not such arrives is mandatory in the "Official Messenger", but if it is a decision by local self-government to do so, if it is a local self-government in which the language and letter of a national minority is used, which is again regulated by the Law on Official Use of the Language, that this local self-government is also required to send in the language of the national minority spoken in that local self-government. In one word, I believe that one such member would not be extra, but that he would really be useful to stand in this law that speaks of the publication of acts and other regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16764	The word is Mr. Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16765	As far as this amendment is concerned, what I said at the session when there was a principled search, there is one methodological problem, which is that we must take care of the compliance of the normative system and we must not go to an extreme called overstretchedness. Someone will say: the extra head does not hurt, and it is not bad for something that is meant to be re-standardized in order to be better understood. But there's no need, because every law has its own scope. There's no need for the same things to be standardized in a few laws. Look, it can create one problem when the law is changed, and then the promoter, it can be a government, it can be a MP, it proposes a change of one law, and it leaves out the other one that contains the same provision, and then we have in different laws the same thing arranged in different ways. For example, you now have the situation that in 1982, the then Assembly of the SRJ passed the Act on a non-partisan procedure in which it explicitly called for specific members of the Law on Prosecution. The Law on Prosecution has been amended twice in the meantime, and the Act on Non-Parcial Procedure has not been amended. That invitation has now become completely unsustainable. He points to some completely wrong things, completely inapplicable. Therefore, when it comes to the official use of language and letter, there is a law that regulates it. The official messenger will publish. First, the act holder will keep an eye on what language and what letter the act brings. The official messenger will publish the act the way the bearer sent it. The same goes for international contracts. There are laws that regulate this problem and they will apply. The same applies to these acts of the units of local self-government. So, they will respect the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, respect their statutes, adopt acts in accordance with these laws and their statutes and the Official Messenger, if they want to be published in the "Official Messenger" on the basis of their contractual relationship, they will publish it. There's no need for us now in two, three laws to re-standard one of those same things.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16766	The word has Donka Banovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16767	You don't have to count as a replica, I'm an authorised representative, I have group time, and it's not exactly a replica. I understand that this may also be an unequal struggle. You're Dr. Right and I'm not. But it's not a fight, it's an exchange of views. As a MP, I already have a lot of experience as far as different laws are concerned. It seems to me that there are two kinds of, say, law-writing schools. So far, it has been noted that, despite some law, some matter is very detailed, that we have certain members in some other laws that are also referred to that law, but they are again and again regulated, in order to make it perfectly clear in that place. Yesterday we had a discussion on the protection of patients' rights and we had a member talking about a ban on discrimination on various grounds. So, despite the fact that there is a law on the prohibition of discrimination in the legal system, I think that since 2011 or even 2010, in many laws we have as proposals, it is later and adopted we have members talking about a ban on discrimination. Now I've mentioned that law. For example, there is also the law we recently had – the Law on the Employment of Persons with Disabilities. And there were several members talking about a ban on discrimination. Then, the Law on the founding of an education and education system certainly has one ten members talking about a ban on discrimination. It's possible that some lawyers think it's insane. Some may not, but I'm simply giving you some experience that we MPs are obviously exposed to different legal schools, to say the least. That's why I thought that really this law, which is of a technical nature, let me say, it doesn't regulate much, regulates a very detailed area, places for a member like this. After all, as rough as it is now, if we bring in this member, then the official messenger who is in charge of publishing all the laws and legal acts properly, he can in some cases be a control mechanism, because he can say – well, you delivered it to us, we will publish it, but we think you should deliver it to us and, for example, the English variant or version.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16768	Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Milica Radovic. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Milica Radovic. The Government and the Resolution Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Jovan Palalic and Milica Radovic together submitted to the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment with the correction, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Milica Radovic. The Government and the Resolution Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16769	You refused the amendment, and I wanted it to be a little more specific or a little bit more specific. It mainly refers to Article 6, paragraph 2, meaning Article 6, in "The Official Messenger also publishes other acts of the Government which are governed by a specific law or for which the Government decides to publish in the "Official Messenger" and acts of the Prime Minister in accordance with the law and other regulations. I know what has bothered me here, this sentence "of which the Government has decided to publish itself in "the Official Messenger", generally considering that every act the Government adopts is a public document and that it should be published in "the Official Messenger". I suggested a supplement of this attitude "and all other acts of government". So I just wanted to eliminate this free will that you decide to do. You have answered me that this is unnecessary and that there are government conclusions that sometimes are not of general importance. Okay, I accept that there are such things. Perhaps you could give us an example of a conclusion that is of no importance.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16770	The word is Mr. Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16771	Look out, most of the government's acts, it can be confirmed to us by anyone who's been there, it must be mandatory to publish both the regulation, the decision, the Rules of Procedure and the Memorandum of Budget and all the solutions. Now there is an act called - the conclusion. This act may have a variety of contents. For example, some of the conclusions made are confidential. For example, when a platform is adopted to visit one of our officials to a foreign state. Those sessions are closed to the public, that conclusion is confidential. Since he's classified, it can't be published. For example, the platform analyses the current political situation in that country, which is what our official will deal with, etc. It's by nature that things can't be published in the official messenger, that they're born. Further, for example, sometimes the government adopts an act, and before the act comes into force, the government withdraws it, abolishes it, and does so in conclusion. Why would you be making an act now, why would you publish a conclusion that you're terminating an act before you've removed the act you published in the Official Messenger? There's no need. When it comes to these conclusions, the Government estimates which of these conclusions, which are allowed to be published and which are of interest to the public, which are not allowed, and therefore there is one such elastic provision. By the way, the largest number of acts the government adopts by this law is the intended obligation to publish in "The Official Messenger".
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16772	National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted the 17th amendment. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16773	So this amendment is actually a proposal to add a new position after the second attitude. Otherwise, this is about an act whose publication in the Official Messenger is not mandatory. I have proposed the addition of this article, and the fact that it reads this way – it is forbidden in the "Official Messenger" to publish the announcement of events, advertising ads, information and other information that is not related to the activity of the bodies of legal persons and natural persons. It's this story again whether it's too much or not. You are in an explanation for why you reject this amendment or this new stance said it was regulated by the Advertising Act. I agree, yes, there is a lot of detail in that law when it comes to advertising, it's elaborated. As much as that law is respected, that's a different story. I wouldn't go into it, but I think, given that this is the official messenger, that it should stand and not be published in that official messenger, that it can't be used to advertise certain events. Who knows, maybe some legal or physical person at some point decides to advertise some of his own product. I thought that was supposed to be indicated. You know, when something doesn't say, when something isn't defined, there can be abuse. This is one of the amendments I thought you'd accept. If it doesn't say something, some people interpret it so it's allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16774	National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted an amendment proposing to add a new title above members and Article 24 after Article 23. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16775	I apologize to my colleagues for being boring, but I have to defend the amendments we've submitted. What is seen here in this bill is that it does not talk about what is action, including the basic activity or the expanded activity of the Public Enterprise "The Official Messenger" is being regulated or spoken about the composition of the Supervisory Board of Public Enterprises and there are respected amendments to the Law on Public Enterprises, where there are no more boards of directors, but now they are just supervisory committees, so I will read. Otherwise, this amendment and the title above this new member – the activity of the public enterprise. I felt, since this is the Law on the "officer of the Office", but on the public enterprise that is responsible for doing this job, that it should also state what business it is of the public company. I suggest that - the public enterprise's work is to publish "the Official Messenger", prepare for publication, publication and maintenance of electronic editions, prepare for printing and publication of the printed edition of "The Official Messenger". Under two – the sale of the printed edition of "Official Messenger", under three – the multiplication and sale of recorded, sound, video and computer records, under four – the publication and sale of collections of regulations, comments of regulations, the collection of court decisions, forms, books and journals, and five – the execution and other activities of certain statutes of the public enterprise which are in the function of achieving the prescribed work. The second view is that the business of the position one, three, four and five of this member of the public company can be done if their publication does not endanger the performance of the basic activity. What did I really want? So here there are some five actions that I have predicted, and these are the actions that the public firm is doing today, but simply that the first two, as I call basic actions, and that all of these other actions that the "officer" under its statute can perform, are such that they can perform them, but that they cannot endanger this basic activity. When I spoke in the debate in principle, I mentioned it, which I learned from the press, that the former director of the Official Messenger, the current V.D. The official messenger, that they accuse each other of malfeasance, of lack in the register, of publishing books and magazines standing in storage and that the official messenger had become a factory for books that could not be sold. When I talked about it, I was precise, in the sense that I had no reason to believe the current one, but if there's any problem in that company, it just needs to be seen. That is why I wanted to make it clear what the priorities of this public enterprise are, and that it can carry out these others, if it does not endanger basic activities. We can see from experience that these expanded activities have in some way compromised these basic actions that this public enterprise simply has to carry out under this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16776	Thank you. Mr. Dejan Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16777	Thank you. As far as this amendment is concerned, it is not contentious and the government's decision to set up a public enterprise, "The Official Messenger", will basically stand for something like that, which is the "officer's activity". However, it is formally disputed, because under the Law on Public Enterprises, when the company established the Republic of Serbia, the founding rights are exercised by the government, and by an act establishing enterprises, it is Article 5. The law on public enterprises, then determines what the activity of the public enterprise is. So what you've listed, it's not the subject of regulation of the law, it's not legislative matter, it's the subject of regulation of a sublegal act passed by the government. Therefore, this amendment was not accepted, for a formal reason, and not for material reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16778	Thank you. Donka Banovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16779	It's not a replica, I have the time of power to waste that time. I'm speaking again based on some parliamentary experience, that we're getting different bill proposals when it comes to this. I can also accept your argument, that for formal reasons it is not his place here, and yet I still believe that, although in that case, the Assembly here would be breaking some law, but I don't think it would be too burning to write in this law what is the basic activity of a public enterprise, even though I accept your arguments. The other day, we had a draft law on railways, so we had a reverse situation, where we talked about the Railways Directorate, although it's a different legal person, and I'm aware of that. It is a special organization where we have had a certain 50 different actions that this organization will perform. It wasn't about the composition of the Directorate itself, about who was in charge, how it was chosen, how much, etc. Then Mr Milutin Mrkonjic, who defended the law, said otherwise, that he would also do so by the government, etc. I understand that these are different statuses or legal persons, but I still think that, for the sake of the responsible and host business of this public enterprise, this is where it was meant to state what basic activities and obligations are and what are secondary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16780	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to the title above Articles 25 and 25 of the amendment. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Milica Radovic. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted an amendment proposing to add a new title above members and Article 26. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojic Markovic and Jovan Palalic. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16781	This is Article 26, which regulates, as we have discussed in principle, one of the newspapers in this law, which is that, in addition to the printed form of the "Official Messenger", we now have the electronic form, i.e. the publication of the "Official Messenger", although it is something that exists, users are already using and using it, but now it is regulated by law. Basic and special edition of "Official Messenger" is in PDF format, HTML format, etc. We propose to add two new attitudes and however: "Ectronical edition of the "Official Messenger" is signed by electronic signature and published on the public business website. ". That's one attitude. And the fourth position, where it would clearly be said, "The electronic edition of "The Official Messenger" is free of charge. ". I'm not reopening the discussion on whether to sign an electronic edition of the official messenger by electronic signature. We have an e-signature law since 2005. Several companies registered a certification body, I think that's what PTT Serbia did, and I can only conclude that I'm sorry to see that it didn't come to life in practice or very rarely. I thought this was also an electronic edition, where that electronic signature would protect the integrity of an electronic signed document. And this fourth, I think the electronic edition for all users of that edition has to be free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16782	Thank you. Mr. Dejan Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16783	As for the electronic signature and after consulting the people involved, the electronic signature is used for one other type of act. For example, if I were to send you in electronic form a proposal for a contract, so that the proponent's authenticity would be protected, then there would be an electronic signature. There's a whole other thing here. There is a public register that is conducted in electronic form and it is authorized, protected and provided in one other way. If you look at, for example, the register of economic operators, which runs the APR, you have no electronic signature anywhere. If you go to the site of the catastra, it's also a register that's being run on the Internet, there's also no electronic signature. As far as this amendment of yours is concerned, that the electronic edition of the "Official Messenger" is free of charge, it is already regulated in Articles 28 and 29. The bill, where it is said that the base, which contains the register, the texts of the applicable regulations, other acts, etc., does not pay compensation. So it doesn't need to be put into law in one more place. Therefore, Articles 28 and 29 indicate that all the regulations that are "the Official Messenger" will be made available free of charge to anyone who has access to the Internet.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16784	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16785	I hurried, but practically this applies to Article 29. You were talking about Article 28, and that's what that means, and I'm going to read it, because it seems to me like Article 28 doesn't stand. This is already about the second newspaper, the legal-information system – the legal and information system of the Republic of Serbia is being established as a database of data in electronic form, which contains the electronic form of the "Official Messenger", the archive of official messages, the database containing the register and texts of applicable regulations and other acts of the Republic of Serbia published in the "Official Messenger", the database containing the case law, other data on the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and the link to EU legal acts. Article 2 - the legal-information system is being published on the websites of a public enterprise. All I see here is a description of the legal and information system and what it contains, but I don't see in this article that it's free. In Article 29, where the two positions are, you say – in the database, which contains the register and texts of the applicable regulations and other acts published in the "Official Messenger", all Internet users are available, without compensation, unofficially purified texts of the regulations, original official texts. Let me accept that, because of this Article 29, you do not want to freak out Article 27, because, if it is an electronic form, then I believe that there should be a very clear statement that this electronic form is free of charge for all users. Now I will also say about the next amendment to Article 29, where we propose to delete that other attitude where it stands – for access to other data...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16786	Mrs. Banovic, for the record, when we get to that amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16787	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16788	The word is Mr. Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16789	I just wanted to say what you said yourself. Article 29 regulates that the texts of the regulations, that is that HTML format, and the original official messenger in PDF format, which publishes the basic texts of the regulations. So that's where it says it's available without compensation. There is no need to repeat in an earlier or later member that this electronic database is free of charge. There's no need for one of those same things to norm twice. For this reason, we did not accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16790	Thank you. Mrs. Banovic, do you want a word about this? (No) Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Jovan Palalic together submitted to the 29th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16791	This amendment speaks of the second largest newspaper of this law, in fact, this law, what already exists, but is not run by the public firm "The Official Messenger", is this legal-information system. We propose an amendment that for access to other data contained in the legal-information system, compensation is paid, whose height is determined by a public enterprise act, to which consent is given by the government. So we're proposing to delete this other attitude because if we're already forming and we have this legal-information system, then I think that everything that's in that legal-information system is relevant to all users. Therefore, I believe that this entire legal and information system should be free of charge for users. For access to other data, I don't know what other data the user should be paying some sort of compensation for. Also, when the debate was in principle, it was said of what importance they were, for example. records, reviews or comments of certain court proceedings. It's possible that under these other data you considered such files, something that's from court practice. I think you'll agree with me that it's an experience or this case-law of importance both for lawyers and people who work in prosecutors, in the judiciary, etc., but also for each individual citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16792	Thank you. The word is Mr. Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16793	This is where you ask the question of measures. My personal wish, when we worked on the draft of this bill, was that the entire legal-information system would be free of charge to everyone. That's what I wanted. On the other hand, however, there are opportunities. If that wish had been met, we would have put our business at risk, financially endangering the public company "The Official Messenger". Then they couldn't survive. Therefore, at this point, the situation is such that access to the legal-information system will partially finance from the state budget, in part, by the users who are interested in it. The Assembly Committee has proposed one amendment to allow access to the legal-information system in this case-law to be free of charge to some other users, namely courts, public prosecutors, the Republic of D.A., the Commissioner for Public Information. The amendment could be accepted and it especially makes sense for courts, since the "officer official" court practice and gets from courts and then it is really inappropriate for courts to pay for the information they provide to the "officer". This is some of the widest circle of users who could be allowed free access to the legal-information system, and that the public company "Official Messenger" survives financially. Anything beyond that, if it spreads, it would endanger a public enterprise. Look, so far, their funding hasn't been systemically arranged, and it just went down like that, no one's ever looked back on it. The company also has its objective and subjective problems. The fact is, for example, when the state union of Serbia-Montenegro fell apart in 2006, we had a public company called the "Official List" of former SFRY, so the name changed as the name of the state changed. The state then had an interest in keeping these people out of work, and all employees of the Official List integrated into the Official Messenger. That's when the number of employees in the official messenger rose rapidly. It's a burden that this company suffered. It was financed in a good way by publishing ads and tenders for public procurement. On the other hand, there is an interest in discharging the costs of the economy, so the new Public Procurement Act in that segment was very favourable to the contracting authorities, he predicted it would be published on various websites. The official messenger's incomes have dropped 90% on this basis since 1 April 2013, when the new Public Procurement Act began to apply. At this point, they may be able to hold out this year. As of 1 January 2014, if they do not receive funding from the budget, they will not be able to publish all these acts that must be published in the Official Messenger. What I was saying and in the debate in principle, "The Official Messenger" we just send the text of the laws, regulations, decisions, solutions, etc. and they publish. We've never had an invoice. The Secretary-General of the Assembly, also known as the Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, also knows the Secretary-General of the Presidency, every service of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. They financed it from their profits. Now watch out, how to access the Official Messenger has several modes in parallel law. We can make them a public service that publishes regulations and deals only with them. Then you have one set of equipment that stands every Thursday when the government makes decisions, those regulations you publish until next Thursday stand, and they're very expensive, and you need very expensive machines to make the regulations quick print. The second thing is that we do business with the Official Messenger on a conversion basis, and we send, for example, before the law is published they establish a invoice, when we pay for them to publish the law. The state doesn't have any money now. The law doesn't get published. It's also an intolerable situation for the legal order. We have situations, for example, that sometimes the publication of regulations is very expensive because it requires great urgency. For example, in time, the National Assembly, a day of derbying between Partizan and the Red Star, passed a law on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure that had to take effect on the day of publication in the Official Messenger. It was literally expected from the official messenger that on the day the law was delivered to him that they would break, prepare for the press, the press, to print it out in a huge circulation and distribute it. Then you have a situation that this company sometimes works 24 hours a day. Then you have to pay those people, those overtimes, and work at night, etc. So the publication of the rules is very expensive for that reason we also have to take care of the financing of this company. This amendment, which the Assembly Committee has submitted, is some maximum to go to, all over it is risky. I agree, if the situation is improved in the future, that everything that contains the legal information system should be free, but at this point it's only at the level of a beautiful desire, real life isn't real.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16794	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16795	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues, speak of the matter of Article 29 when there was talk of a bill in principle. The fact is that a large number of laws come by emergency procedures and it's obvious that it increases costs. I'm not sure this suggestion that these bill proposals will be considered in some regular time frames, at least in a short period, will come up with positive effects and that this suggestion will be accepted. In order for that suggestion to be accepted, we would certainly not be discussing tax laws that are practically distributed to the MPs today, and we should propose amendments in that short time to fix, if possible, certain laws. I believe that, regardless of what in some way makes it impossible for the Official Messenger to generate additional revenues, it does not need to be practically by selling court practice, i.e. database data, court practice data, to be the main source of funding of the Official Messenger. I am not sure that I am the process of unifying court practice and sending it all to the Official Messenger and the costs that involve processing it and putting it into the database, that it costs so much to justify that the case law is at certain high prices, practically sold to potential users. According to information available only to Serbia's Bar Association for the publication of its acts since the beginning of the year, it has paid two million dinars to the Official Messenger. So what's for "g", or for free, which is fine, is what Serbia's Attorney's Chamber paid two million dinars for its acts. Is there room for this income to be maintained, for example, the base of this court practice and to be free of charge for everyone. Is it okay that only wealthy lawyers with large offices can subscribe to court practice and know, with a certain probability that the courts will rule, and that everyone and the others involved in the protection of citizens' rights are in a certain way disabled? It is good that an effort has been made by the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government to propose an amendment supplementing the original amendment which was in some way in the procedure and which is practically given, if accepted, that amendment, judicial practice will be made available without compensation to all courts, public prosecutors, the Republic of Public Defence, the Judicial Academy, the Citizens' Protector, the Commissioner for Public Information and Protection of Personality Information, Public Defence of Municipalities, Cities, the City of Belgrade, the City of Belgrade, the City of the City. True, there are no autonomous provinces, no autonomous provinces. So, the autonomous province's primary defense, that's gone. Secondly, there are no protecters of citizens at the level of territorial autonomy and local self-government, and there are Twins. It's not in the amendment. Do they need and have the opportunity to get to know each other? Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, does she need to be in the same status? The Anti-Corruption Agency? A state audit institution? Finally, let me ask you - is the case law, if the Committee of Justice of the National Assembly wants to see what I am writing in court practice and what do the courts decide to know in this matter of the judiciary what to do, the National Assembly will pay for the use of judicial practice? And the National Assembly, practically the Justice Committee will be bound, and the Department of Justice would be obliged to pay all state authorities, too, because we don't say anywhere that the state authorities are exempt from paying for court practice. That is why I reported, not by amendment of the Committee, but by amendment of Ms. Donka Banovic. I think if we delete this attitude 2 that we're going to come to what, let's say, a better variant. Maybe she's no better than what I suggested on the Justice Committee. I suggested that on the Justice Committee, the base that contains the case law is available without a sign to everyone, that if the Official Messenger has some other databases, that's fine, let him charge from whom he should charge the tariffs on which he is given to the Government. I don't know if there are such bases or not, but let's see, the regulations are publicly good in Serbia at all. That anyone who is an informative writer can see how he can protect his interests. Whether he's a lawyer or not, and if he's a lawyer, and not only does a man who seeks protection of his own interests have to pay rich law offices to see how he'll make his own interest happen. I say -- rich law offices, because a simple provincial man who watches how he gets here, survives from month to month, won't be in a position to pay. We're unequal. Unless we accept Mrs. Donka Banovic's amendment, we're unequal. That's why I think it's better to accept that amendment and enable the database to be made available to everyone, and let's find a way to fund the Official Messenger, whether it's budget funds, let's see how much it costs to maintain that database and how much it costs, realistically, to pay from budget funds, even if it's overloaded. Tomorrow, as far as I can tell, we have some tax laws. So much tax to be burdened if we have to, but to make this public, everyone has information about everything. So, what regulations apply and how courts judge on the basis of those rules that apply. That will mean a great deal to us as the Messengers of the people. Let's see if there's a need for some legislative initiative. If we see that the courts have a practice like this or one, then we see where the bottleneck is and we say, hey, alarm, let's see that we change the law. There's obviously something wrong here. Whether that's what we wanted or not when we passed the law. That is why I find it extremely useful to consider the amendment of Ms. Donka Banovic, when there has already been no success on the Justice Committee to free the case-law. Now technically there are two variations. To adopt the amendment of the Committee, where we forgot the District Attorney. Why? I think it's probably technically forgotten, that it's not an evil intention, although someone might interpret it under all political circumstances that it's something else. But we forgot about the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, many others... (President: Mr. Mikovic, we will do that on the next amendment. Please, we're talking about this now, Donke Banovic. )......................................................................................................... Yeah, about Donkin. That's exactly why I say why. So that's one of the options. We can use the imperfect amendment of the Justice Committee to adopt and to be in trouble about applying it and tomorrow, as a member of the Justice Committee, to seek information on judicial practice so that I can adequately engage, which will oblige the Assembly to pay, or to adopt Mrs. Donka Banovic's amendment and make all these databases available to all citizens to be publicly well and to be on that background, to make the entire legal system transparent, and to be transparent and to apply the legal system with judicial practice. Please think again. For the best part, I propose this, precisely to prevent the creation of negative consequences by adopting, possibly, this amendment and creating a problem that I prefer, which I love less, whether I prefer an institution or less, and not to tell you that tomorrow the issue of inequality about protecting the rights of citizens will be raised. Do we have a public prosecutor's investigation? Now the prosecutors will know what's in court practice, where the defenders are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16796	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16797	Dear Chairman, distinguished directors, honourable Members of Parliament, I would like to join Mrs. Banovic's argument on the fact that it should be absolutely free of charge for everyone who is interested in a complete base run in the information centre, especially judicial practice. None of us have said here that the way to justice and truth is fast, easy and cheap. On the contrary, we all believe that democracy guaranteeing rights, among other things the right to equality, to a fair trial, to the availability and the law and all data of any interested in any procedure guaranteed by the Constitution. Thus, the equality of parties in the process is marred this way if one number of data is not available to all, but is charged by those who are most interested in justice and who are the most numerous in seeking justice, which are citizens of Serbia. We, as their representatives, should allow us to accept this amendment that their approach to judicial practice, which is not an unimportant source of law and which is not irrelevant in the defence process or in the civil proceedings brought before the courts in Serbia, is that this very important resource is put to full use for them for free. If we charge, not only for citizens, but also for you as the director of the Secretariat, you will have to pay for the use of court practice, and we as MPs and ministers in the government and the Prime Minister and all those who were counted by Mr. Mikovic will have to pay for the use of this. In addition to the prosecution, of course, which side is in the proceedings and the courts that judge. We are putting citizens, lawyers representing these citizens, in relation to the prosecution and the defence, who are mostly parties to the procedures being conducted. We believe that it is absolutely necessary to allow free access to electronic data by court practice as well as all other data as provided for in electronic form and to provide equal protection for all of these courts. Otherwise, we come to a situation that small law offices will not be able to be the ones who will possess judicial practice and be able to provide full judicial protection to citizens who come to them, that citizens themselves, who decide to defend themselves against the court, courts and such, will not be able to access these data without payment and will therefore be in an unequal position with respect to the defence, the prosecution, or perhaps on the other side represented by some more powerful attorney's office, which will absolutely dispose of all the data. We believe that everyone should be given equal access, equal trial and equal and fair access to all institutions. That's one thing. The second thing, by accepting the amendment proposed by the Committee, which is the next amendment, is one incomplete solution that should again be complemented if you decide only for state authorities, not to supplement that amendment with the Government, the National Assembly and other state institutions. Once again, we are in a situation where we have a bad amendment to the Committee which is uninvolved and we have an amendment from the DSS to make access to the database absolutely free. We think we should accept that the base is free. Secondly, we do not know how much the opening of the bases would burden everyone with the "Official Messenger" and burden the budget of the Republic of Serbia. We don't have that kind of record here. Only here is being manipulated by the fact that 90% of the official messenger's income has fallen since there's been no obligation to publish public procurement in the official messenger. We have no other information, we do not know what incomes or expenditures, or how many employees there are, or what expenditure goes to the printing of books, to publications that are absolutely of second-rate importance in the business of "Official Messenger", because and what Mrs Banovic spoke of in her, one of the earlier amendments, the primary activity of the "Official Messenger" is informing Serbian citizens about the laws and other acts brought by the Government, the Assembly and other bodies, and whose publication is mandatory. This is the basic activity of the "Official Messenger" and is therefore financed by the state, so the state needs to take care of the functioning and financing of the official messenger itself, if necessary, so that the laws and all other acts are available to all and that all citizens are in an equal position before the state authorities, or have the opportunity to inform themselves of all data, acts relating to the functioning of the state and which are of their importance. We will remain persistent in our intention to adopt this amendment, given that it provides for something that is the basic right of citizens to information on acts, brought by the state and courts, and we do not feel that funding of the "Official Messenger" will be compromised in this way, because we do not have any calculation to burden the "Official Messenger" or the state, and that the state must find funds or otherwise help the "Official Messenger" to ensure free access to all, all data from Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16798	Thank you. The word is Dejan Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16799	Thank you. I'm not going to repeat the argument of the contribution to the rejection of this amendment that has already been made, I just want to look back on this debate so as not to get some wrong impression that this law has discriminated against small lawyers in relation to large ones, etc. The public needs to know what the situation is right now. For one thing, the relationship between small and big lawyers is even more discriminatory today. Today, in order for anything to be officially known, you have to pay for everything. So you have to subscribe to the Official Messenger to know what the text of the law, regulation, solutions, sublaw, etc. is. Today everything is paid and today small lawyers are even more discriminated against by large lawyers. Today, a small lawyer or has to pay a subscription to the official messenger, has to pay a subscription to some private database, not to mention them now. Today, a great lawyer is in an even better position than a small one, than it will be when this law comes into force. At least today, when this law enters into force, regulations will be made available to everyone equally, only judicial practice will remain available to someone less accessible. How's it going with the National Assembly? How does the National Assembly today learn about the information it needs to work? Today, the National Assembly does not have free access to the law it has published. It is subscribed to "The Official Messenger", and it is known to me as a member of the RIK, that the National Assembly today pays a certain amount of money in private, not today but always, to various private databases to have the unofficially consolidated text of the rules available, so that it can have unscheduled court practice in which only a sentence, incomplete decision, etc. is made available. As far as this equality is concerned, it cannot be established by law. You can give everyone an equal chance, but you can't make everything even. You know, it's not just the availability of regulations and the availability of court practice that makes one lawyer equal or less equal to another, in order for you to prepare well for a trial, you need to know the views of the doctrine. Right? One good comment of the law, for example, costs us four, five thousand dinars. For example, in Germany a good comment from the Civil Code costs 10,000 euros. Someone can afford to buy it, someone can't. To get to know each other well, to prepare themselves well for an object, it is not only burning to get to know the general principled attitude of doctrine but rather to think of a renowned expert on a particular problem. You've got these big law offices that pay for consulting a prominent expert to give them legal advice or to have legal opinions on how to act, since the kid can't. Does this mean now that we're gonna hire legal experts to give everyone free consulting, that we're gonna share books for free? There's a border to fall back on. In principle, I honestly admit that my original idea was to make it all free. However, the situation is that a public company that through history, even to rule out these stories about how they ran publishing policy, that I am not dealing with it now, the fact that which federal, public enterprise has been shut down, or republican, that workers have been integrated into this "Official Messenger" has created this public enterprise a huge problem. And at this point, it's not possible for the state to make all that out of its budgets. You know, this part of the legal-information system isn't new. I found a draft law on the publication of laws, regulations and other general acts, which he promoted. For example, the previous government didn't want to hear about it. There is the opinion of the previous finance minister, who categorically refused to give the dinar out of the budget for the official messenger, not only to be a court practice for all, but also to have laws available. It just didn't occur to him. It exists, it's documented, there's a negative opinion from the Ministry of Finance at the time. So this isn't what the lawyers would like. We all want all this information available, that I have free court practice. Perhaps one day that we have free and individual administrative authorities' acts, in various administrative procedures, that it is systematised, published, etc., but the current financial opportunities are such that at this time it is not realistic. In any case, it must be acknowledged that in relation to the existing situation where everything is paid for and for the law, regulation, court practice, this is a major improvement. A lot will be free of charge from 1 January 2014.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16800	Thank you. The word is Dejan Michael, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16801	You're telling us that you're going to fix the imbalance in a piece. So now they're all unequal, they're going to remain unequal, but less. It may, we might say, please you in some way, but we feel that there is a need to fully correct inequality. We're not talking about Belgrade right now, we're talking about a black grass lawyer who has 2,000 inhabitants, I'm looking at the number of voters, about 2000, and I'm supposed to... (President: Sign up again please, something is happening with the system. ) We are not talking about Belgrade here, let us take the municipality of Crna Trava which has few inhabitants, or some other municipality that has only a few thousand inhabitants where it is simply necessary to enable them to have absolutely every right. The lawyer from that municipality, who belongs to one of the poorest, who probably has a small number of cases, which barely ends up paying taxes, health care, social services, everything lawyers pay for, is hardly able to allocate any additional funds. So it's in our interest that we, and that's why we said that equality and justice is neither fast nor cheap, but it's a long way to go, but we need to be here as MPs, the people's representatives to make sure that it is so and in every part of Serbia that everyone is legally available for full defence, for equality, for the full protection of their rights by accessing these regulations. We will, of course, remain persistent in defending this amendment and in an effort to ensure that all citizens are fully free of charge of access and judicial practice. Now I want to point out, and we said that in the debate in principle, we believe that this law and the establishment of this information centre is a step in relation to what we have so far and that it is something we have praised in the principle debate and that it will contribute much better information on the laws and other acts of all citizens of Serbia, all those who want it. They will be able to access absolutely everything except court practice, which we think is also important, as a source of law. We have fully said that this is one quality and improvement compared to the current situation. There is only one segment left that we feel is also important and we do not think would be a great cost or effort to make it possible for everyone to come to justice in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16802	Thank you. Next reported is MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16803	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Directors, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, in the interests of the profession, I will join the appeals that are affirmed both in the amendment proposal and in the discussions of my predecessors who have literally pointed to facts that cannot be doubted. These facts, I'm sure, avoid selectivity. Why selectivity? Because it's not just big and small lawyers. It is indisputable and I fully accept the argument of the Honorable Director that this distinction will also be greater between large and small lawyers, but let's not forget the parties that these lawyers represent. Let's not forget that there are parties where by law a lawyer as a attorney or defender is required, let's not forget that in this situation we have something that is not affirmative here, which is the fact that the lawyer is an integral part of the judiciary. If courts, prosecutors, have full access to databases without compensation, why would a lawyer be discriminated against who, as a segment or centre of quality of justice, must have the same availability? I don't see any reason for discrimination. Even less, I see the reason that those funds on which my colleague Mikovic has shown himself in fact well are not small funds, which are sort of redefine and allow lawyers for the quality of justice, the judiciary, and especially for lawyers, to make the database available equal. It's not a burning thought that it really has the character of public good. Why should citizens at the pedestal value of justice be discriminated against? Every citizen is a potential client to a lawyer. I say, "Positive." Why would they make any selection in that case? Especially at the border of discrimination. We were talking about court practice. Judicial practice as one of the sources of law, the court president, also through availability, through knowledge, enables not only education but to raise levels of expertise, both those who work in the judiciary and those who work in law enforcement. Do we want quality justice? Is that a condition for us to join the EU? Is that an integral part of what we do through judicial reform? Is that what everybody here is up to, whether we're in opposition or position, or position or opposition? What is essential is that we have an elite judiciary and that imposes on us the EU. I say it again - part of that judiciary is a lawyer, because we can't amputate the lawyer from the judiciary. Finally, I want to point out that in no case can the restrictiveness of the budget be or should not be the reason for us to treat the part of the system we depend on in this way, and I welcome and support all the efforts you make and this is one shift. In any case, we can't be blind to it. It is one step forward to avoid this selectivity, but it has not been fully achieved and therefore I support what is stated in the amendment. I'm sorry that I wasn't on the Justice Committee to affirm exactly what my fellow lawyers did in front of the lawyer's office, because we finally have to realize that politics can't be something above the profession, or politics has to be in the function of the profession, not the profession of politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16804	Thank you. Next reported is MP Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16805	Thank you very much. In the preceding answer, Mr. Director gave me a lot of arguments out of my hands, because in this particular clash of justice and the financial interest of the Official Messenger, I wanted to point out that, in my opinion, the financial interest or the provision of funds for many employees who are now in the Official Messenger, who have lost their jobs in some other public institutions, was more dominant than the colleagues who have submitted this amendment and who have supported the amendment. Regardless of being right-wing and promoting a strong and organised state with strong institutions, we are also liberal orientations – we promote equality, human rights, human freedoms. Every time we talk about law and justice, we need to think about what it's going to feel like for citizens to have in the functioning of the state and in the availability of justice and justice. Let's imagine a life situation. Prosecutors with all escort services, etc., shall have, inter alia, at their disposal and the case-law. On the other hand, we have an innocent defendant who doesn't even have a lawyer, has no court practice, has no money or is familiar with the possibility of being made available to him through payment of court practice. He's starting out in an unequal position. There is no kind of philosophy that still has in our society a great relic that citizens exist because of the state. It must change in the opposite direction – the state exists because of citizens and citizens in each segment of the state's operation should have absolutely equal treatment. On the other hand, everyone who is familiar with the situation in our judiciary, regardless of the minor importance of judicial practice as a source of law in our legal system, knows that our case law is quite unequal. This, the availability of court practice to all, would also mean a great motivation for the court to make even more careful and fairer judgments and even better measured at making their judgments. When compared in a variety of cases, more or less identical cases of different views of the courts, this would be another significant indicator of the inequality of the philosophy of the court in making judgments and deciding on the fates of people in more or less the same factual states. That is why all the arguments that the distinguished colleagues have made, an argument that is too far apart to accept this amendment. The financial interest should always be in a different plan than justice and equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16806	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dejan Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16807	Thank you. If we put aside the legal-political argument, when it comes to the amendments you've made, I've avoided entering that formal court. Both amendments have this legal-technical problem -- it was not taken into account in one normisation accord. I'll tell you what's the matter now. You know, the original idea was – everything will be free, and then when you standard what the state pays for, you say - the state pays for everything. Then someone says everything can't be free, we don't have a chance. See Article 33(2). The bill – the amount of funds provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget is determined on the basis of the average prices of comparable services on the market. Comparable services on the market shall include the preparation services for the press and the press, the editing services and the update of the electronic signature base. The official messenger will be given the money to run the law base, not the court practice base. If the National Assembly or the Committee of the National Assembly or an individual MP wants to ensure that judicial practice is equally available, that amendment must include Article 33. You say now – give everyone court practice for free, but the state will give you money just to run the law base. Where's the official messenger going to collect money to run it for free, update the court practice base? In this current situation, there is no advertising for public procurement. These electronic search regulations have reduced the subscription. The Secretary of the Assembly may also testify to how many written "officer"s are subscribed to the Assembly. It can be very well assumed, when there is an electronic official version of the regulation, who will subscribe to this written version. So, by adopting this amendment, proposed by Parliament of People's Parliament Donka Banovic, we are asking the public enterprise to provide free of charge for all citizens with insight into court practice, and that no one is funding, not the state, not the citizens. Where's the money gonna come from for that? That circle has to be closed in some way. So from that legal, logical point of view, amendments to the People's MP Donka Banovic would have been acceptable if he had predicted a change in Article 33 and that it would have been legally closed. This can't do it. As for the amendments submitted by the Assembly Committee, public enterprises could financially withstand this, that for a number of users they give court practice if Article 33 is not changed. That has to be taken care of. Law is not just one single norm. It's a system. That's why the craziness I was talking about is dangerous. When you regulate a lot of the same things in different places and change one and the other, you don't change the result of chaos. Unbound by legal policy, even if I agree that the amendment is good and if I agree to accept it, it is the need to change Article 33, and no one has suggested it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16808	Thank you. The word has Donka Banovic, a folk MP, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16809	Since you have heard the argument from several parliamentary groups and from MPs who make up the assembly majority, as well as the opposition, I think now in a way very skillfully legal now you're doing it a little bit. Since I have proposed this amendment that I have changed or added that there will be court practice or other regulations, as in this Article 29. Therefore, it is not mentioned in this – court rules, but only judicial practice. There may be something else, but that's it. Then you'd take it. The MPs did not remember to change Article 33, otherwise you would have accepted it. I appreciate your resourcefulness as a lawyer, and I can say that you're probably quite right. But let me tell you, once we get the draft budget, as the funding item of JP "The Official Messenger" will also appear, it will probably be divided within the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. We will not see from that section that the "office Messenger" is being allocated so much to finance the databases on other regulations, i.e. court practice. In that item we will see as much for all budget users, we get the "Official Messenger", there we have salaries, contributions and insurance, etc. And for their deeds there will be an item. But they saw it alive. We'll see about that when we get the draft budget. I believe that not being a changed member of the 33rd is no reason for you to refuse this amendment, but of course you can remain in your position.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16810	The word is Dejan Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16811	There are two things I'd like to warn you about again. First, when the government proposes a budget, it can't go in reverse. He must respect that article 33. He can't give them more than the law provides. Secondly, since you mentioned that legal fissure and legal logic, to be honest with you as a lawyer, what do you think accepting your amendment would change anything? If we had accepted your amendment and deleted Article 29's position, you would have a Article 29 that says – in the database containing the register and texts of the applicable regulations and other acts of the Republic of Serbia published in the "Official Messenger", all Internet users are listed what is available without compensation. This Article 29 of Article 2 is not applicable. How do you think a lawyer would interpret that Article 29 that now has this one single position? There's a means of interpretation called argumento akontrario. If there is no fee available for this, the rest shall be charged. We would just by erasing this position 2 lead to the next situation so that perhaps the "officer" could determine compensation without some direct control of the government. See Article 29, paragraph 1, in the proposal and delete this point 2 and see how one lawyer would interpret it by applying the method of interpretation with an argument adjective. This amendment of yours would essentially change nothing if it were adopted. Again, compensation would be paid, only to change that the compensation would not be determined by the act of a public undertaking to which consent is given by the government. That's all a public company would leave out of control.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16812	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16813	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, obviously that when it comes to doctors and lawyers, when these topics are on the agenda, then the discussion simply lives. I have a feeling that there's a certain kind of conflict of interest that certain lawyers care very much about this other part being free. I'm going to go ahead, given that I've been listening to an extremely inspired discussion of one speaker, so I asked myself, what was wrong with them in the past five years that this solution they're now offering, that they do so in the previous period so that the "officer" is not just printed, that it's in electronic form, that it's on the Internet, that these basic regulations, the acts published in the "office messenger" are available to all citizens? What was wrong with this inspired speaker to propose in the past five years some solution proposed by this law and to enable a wide range of users, i.e. To citizens, including us MPs, that we can compare the initial bill proposal with the printed version of the law in the electronic edition, in order to review it more easily. What did they mind doing, doing it in a certain way, being free of charge, and basic? The official messenger has been printed and charged so far. He wasn't available in the electronic edition, he wasn't available on the Internet, and now that I'm listening to those inspired speeches, I almost forgot that "the official messenger" was collecting because of this printed release a huge amount of money, that the people had to buy it, and that in "the official messenger" they shared fat fees, that they were acting in style – I am in "the official messenger" God, I helped myself and my neighbor, they print out several tens of thousands of books and salaries and services, books don't sell. They were mostly involved in helping themselves and their neighbors. That was mandatory, you had to buy, you couldn't find it in electronics. From the money that was being collected and how there were various abuses. It's public knowledge that a month ago, the official messenger case exploded, and I couldn't believe that there could have been such abuses in the official messenger. Of course I support erasing Section 2 and remaining in Article 33(2), and then we get into a collage of two members, you don't know who's going to pay for these other services that are supposed to be free of charge. Citizens need to know that everything they care about is free, but I haven't really met citizens who are so interested in court practice. I think I've met more lawyers than citizens, who are interested in the fact that services and court practices are also free, which is not allowed by this bill. The adoption of this amendment is impossible to implement. Lawyers are trying to show their expertise how interested they are in making this case-law free and I would agree with you. I want to vote in favour of this amendment, but since lawyers also have fat fees when defending clients and that court practice will mostly benefit them, I can say that I would agree with that inspired speaker that this can be free too. I'd vote for that, but lawyers defend their clients for free.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16814	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. SRĐAN MIKOVIĆ: In terms of ambiguity, what happens if some amendment is adopted? Article 165(2) The Rules of Procedure define - if one or more amendments give rise to the need to implement the legal and technical regulation of the text of the draft law or to bring the amendments adopted in line with each other and the text of the draft law, the National Assembly will stop making a decision and ask the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law to carry out a legal and technical order of the text of the draft law, from the competent committee to agree the amendments adopted between each other and the text of the draft law. Then, in the case referred to in Article 2, the committee responsible, or the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, shall report to the National Assembly on any disagreement that has arisen with the amendment, which removes that disagreement. So, there's a chance to get rid of it. There is a possibility that if it is unclear on the subject of Mrs Banovic's amendments, if it is adopted or adopted, and this and the amendment of the committee, then to come out with a practical text, where it would come and where Article 29 would be avoided, as it should be said. I have a few other things to point out. The fact is, at the time of last law's election, there was no electronic base. It was later introduced and it's a good thing there's already an electronic database around the official messenger. Some others also have their own bases, but they exist within the official messenger, already now and that's good. I'm asking again, if we pass a law that I think is good, why don't we make it the best? Let's do what we can do best. If we can see we can fix something, then let's fix it. Since there are a number of lawyers here who understand certain things, especially in the protection of citizens' rights, I ask the question. In achieving legal assistance, whether a representative of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which one party is still in the process of dealing with, for example, in defence, in situations where there is a defense under official duty, can a defense attorney, under official duty, see for free court practice, defend his defender? I'm talking about official duty, where you pay from the budgets of that defense. It can't, because we don't have that part in court practice, to approve means of getting acquainted with court practice under official duty. So we're absolutely bringing in an unequal relationship from one side of the public prosecutor's suit and on the other side of the defender's official duty, and there are some times in practice problems. Old lawyers, experienced lawyers know that it is precisely in court practice that is defined, regardless of what our legal system knows of the lengthy criminal act, precisely the case-law of the Supreme Court, and now by taking over this case-law in appeals courts, there is no extended criminal offence for the crime of robbery. It was introduced and defined only by court practice. A number of us lawyers know that, but, for example, Young lawyers who are not in a position to get acquainted with it are also disabled when defending their defenders. Secondly, is there a possibility in court practice and what is the court's relationship in the matter of amending the indictment during proceedings and beyond the border on the same crime? Where are you going to see that? Only in court practice. Now I'm asking, defense attorney on official duty, how he's going to adequately represent a defendant who just because he's deprived of funds can't hire a lawyer and pay him, but is paid by the state, but is disabled in that part. In that part, I think that we should consider, at the very end of the line, even if we were to apply it and keep it like this, for all of us, that neither amendment should be adopted. There is a possibility that by finally giving the government a price agreement, prices are reduced to one dinar and allow one dinar to be charged. Now, I'm a bit of a cartoonist, but it's practically a government move that allows court practice to be made available to everyone. Here, we offered one solution, another solution, a third solution, the possibility of agreeing amendments and all that, but I felt that my duty, as I spoke to the Justice Committee, was to propose that the base containing the case law is available without compensation to everyone. That would solve everything. We haven't been able to secure most of it. There were MPs on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives who supported my proposal. True, that proposal has not been received by the majority, but I am telling you from practice where the problem is and that is why I urge you to find a solution to allow court practice to be available to everyone, to the general public, to be good. Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16816	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I am a member of the Committee on Justice and Local Self-Government, I was against this amendment and I will briefly explain why and for what reasons. Since Mr. Mikovic was even more insistent on defending this amendment on the Justice Committee, and since he has a year and he remembers something that I remember a little more than he does, in socialism we were told – when communism comes, then everything will be free. That's not gonna happen. I don't know if Mr. Mikovic already thinks Communism is there. He's gone. So, it's all paid. If five, six workers were to support one pensioner, I think I would accept this amendment too, I wouldn't object at all, and that would go well. If Mr. Mikovic had been an economist, he would have talked differently about this amendment, and as a lawyer, he would have spoken as he is now speaking. There are some conflicts of interest, which are, I don't know. So this amendment can't go away because there are no real sources for a budget that would be charged every day. I repeat, if five employees were to support one pensioner, I think this amendment would go without a hitch. So, it's all paid. Your legal services and those strongest law offices, when a party comes for some council, without 100 euros, can't go through. What are we talking about now? That someone who makes money gets information for free, and someone who earns information and collects it. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16817	The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16818	First, the fact is that there is a code of professional ethics and the fact is that there is good practice in many old law offices, that in the matter of the legal council itself, unless it is some serious analysis, it is not charged. But here I am not speaking, nor have I spoken to the Committee as a lawyer, but as a man who has learned all the need for citizens to be familiar with both the regulations and the case law. Finally, here we are not discussing my amendment. I suggested that the amendment in a particular text be adopted on the Committee on Justice. Here we are discussing Mrs. Donka Banovic's amendment, or we are discussing the amendment of the Justice Committee, which has mostly adopted the text before you. I was merely pointing out in my discussion, which is why it is necessary to look here and at the tide to learn about all the positive and negative effects, either, or any other, of any text left unchanged. The fact is that the adoption of the amendments to the Committee left out a large number of subjects where they would be justified in being equal. I don't see where the circuit attorney is, I don't see where the Anti-Corruption Agency is.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16819	Mr. Mikovic, we'll do it in the next amendment. Stick to the Donka Banovic amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16820	I'm holding on to the replica for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16821	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16822	On the amendment so there's no confusion. I tried to explain that when it comes to lawyers and doctors, we have a problem here. This is where the state finances, in this article it's very clear, services to that wider number of users. So I claim that even these regulations and acts will not be seen by all citizens but only by those who have computers and those who are connected to the Internet. So it's still a little narrower circle than the largest circle of citizens, but this little narrow circle of states is also funded from the budget. So, basic regulations, act all that is published in the "Official Messenger" regarding the adoption of acts concerning citizens. The State, on a proposal from the Government, will pay in favour of these users of these services. So citizens will not pay it in such a way to learn about laws and regulations. Now this second part of practice, court practice, professional practice, I would call it, that kind of service is needed by a very small number of people dealing with services, so legal services, or from some professional angle for which they receive personal income and compensation. They use this second part of the charge from that angle. It's a small number of people who, even when defended by official duty, are listed here, their clients, yet these services are charged by the state. Through this service so far, the price of the entire "Official Messenger" has been contained, and this time it can also be contained the price of a small part, i.e. court practice, which will be charged when used in the electronic internet edition of the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". This is far more advanced than what we had, and this second part that isn't financed from the budget needs to be understood like this. Who's filling the budget? The budget is filled with all citizens. These citizens have the right to use this first part for free, and this second part, which is related to a very small number of users, why poor peasants, poor workers, through taxes, would put money into a budget from which to finance services of persons who, too expensive, for our standard, would charge their legal and other professional services in the interest of citizens for their services. If they already charge for it, then why should we have that narrow circle all citizens to finance through the budget, in a certain way, their services that they normally charge to their clients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16823	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16824	You see, I don't think maintaining a court-law base costs that much and there's no reason, it's going to run, so it's going to run. So the court practice base is going to exist and it's going to cost something. Let's see how many people are employed in that, let's see how much maintenance costs. I am sure that one day of the National Assembly session is more expensive than giving court practice to all Serbian citizens. So if we had that data, if we had an analysis of the effects of the regulations and had, in addition to this law, the possibility of seeing what it costs, then it would be easier for us to define ourselves and see what it is. However, how long have we broken through and let a circle of people be available court practice? Let's find a way to bring the amendments into line, either in a certain other way, through the practice and decision-making of the Government in terms of giving price consent, to make it available to everyone. Let's go out with that analysis, then all of us lawyers, economists, gentlemen, comrades, these, they'll be able to see what's most useful to the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-21-0.u16825	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to Article 29. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Completing Law on Criminal Procedure You have received amendments submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government under the bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to the law proposal. At its meeting of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, a representative of the Proposer accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to Article 1. At its meeting of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, a representative of the Proposer accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday, 22 May 2013, starting at 10.00 p.m. as a day for voting on the agenda points of the Third Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Thank you.
