ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14936	Madam Chairman, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Article 87, which says that the National Assembly sessions are held on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday from 10.00 to 18:00 hours, with a break from one hour. It's just that it's become so annoying how unserious you are. I'm just going to let you know that Tuesday's session started, instead of scheduled 11.00 hours, at 11.27 p.m. On Wednesday, you couldn't wake up at 11:00 p.m. on Tuesday, so at 12:00 you scheduled a session, and instead of starting at 12:00 p.m., you started at 12.32 p.m. Yesterday, I guess your rhythm was better, you were planning on waking up at 11.00, but the session didn't start at 11.00, but at 11.29. Today you are particularly orni to work, so you have scheduled the beginning of the session at 10.00 hours and it starts at 10.21 hours. Is it necessary for someone to walk around the O.R., steal our cards to give a quorum, or are we supposed to buy you alarms from the opposition, so you can wake up at 8:00, but I'm afraid every alarm clock says that the time is up for this government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14937	The National Assembly shall convene the President in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. As for the quorum of presence, I remind you of the obligation of the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs when they enter the hall. I would like all MPs to comply with the Rules of Procedure in the future. You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Judita Popović, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic, Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Milica Vojić Marković, Donka Banović and Bojan Bojan Božanić, Bojan Kostreš, Djordžina Stojšić, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik and Dragan Andrić, Mirjana Dragaš, Stefana Miladović, Vesna Jovic and Đorđe Milicevic, Snezana Stojanović Plasic and Vesna Kovac, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Teodora Vlahović, Zlata Djerić and Snezana Stojanović Plasic. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14938	Thank you, Chairman. The present amendment proposed that an employer who does not employ persons with disabilities, in accordance with Article 24 of this Act, be obliged to pay 50% of the average wage per employee in the economy, according to the latest published data by the Republic of Slovenia, responsible for statistics matters for each person with disabilities that he has not employed. We do not think it is correct for employers working in the economy to impose an obligation to pay the average salary and earnings in the Republic of Serbia. The position adopted by the Government and the justification for which this amendment has been rejected, which says that the Republic Statistics Institute does not publish data on the average wage for employees in the economy, and for this reason such an amendment cannot be accepted. The government's explanation for which the amendment was rejected says that, in line with the long-term development of the Republic Statistics Institute for the period 2009 to 2012, the obligation of the office to follow in the economy has been lifted. I think today is 2013 and that this strategy expired last year. If the previous government did not want to make clear data on the average wage of employees in the economy, it is obvious that this government has no intention of obliging the Republic Statistics Office to pay the average wage for employees in the economy either. The fact is that the average salary in the economy is at least 25%, if not more, less than the average salary at the level of the Republic. Why isn't that given? For one simple reason, because if such data were published, then it would be clear what our economy is in. How do you explain to employers in Leskovec, for example, in Književec, Majdanpek, Negotin, who work in the economy, that they should pay the average when their salaries are 15-20 thousand dinars? That's how you make them pay twice their salary. We believe that it is not correct for employers in the economy to impose a republican average. It is clear to us that the economy of this country is in an increasingly difficult and difficult situation. It's much worse today, and it's in worse shape than it was last year. For this reason, we do not understand the argument of the Government, and we think that there are enough MPs here who want to help people with disabilities and that these MPs should accept this amendment, because in order to help people with disabilities, we need to create an opportunity where these people will be able to hire, and only where they will be able to do so is the economy, but if you impose what you no longer can handle, you will have an increasing number of unemployed and more fired workers. It is true that today we have much less economic operators than last year. In a ram way, you don't help people with disabilities and simply create the possibility that they can't get a job at all because employers from the economy can't take it. For this reason, we believe that this LDP amendment which makes a clear difference between the average wage and the average salary in the Republic of Serbia should be accepted and the Republic Statistics Office should be obliged to present the data on the average wage in the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14939	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The People's Parliaments of Snezana Stojanović Plavsic and Vesna Kovač submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14940	The amendment that we have submitted to Article 3 concerns personal assistance services. We suggest that funds can also be used for personal assistance services in the workplace. I remind you that a member of the 23rd current Law on the Employment of Persons with Disabilities has one position that says this: professional assistance can be provided by adapting to support persons with disabilities when introducing to work or at work through counselling, training, assistance services and support at work, monitoring of work, development of personal working methods and evaluation of efficiency. This attitude fully allows for practical and personal assistance. As you have explained, if the problem is simply that personal assistance is considered a service that is used outside the workplace, or in everyday life for people with disabilities, then I would say that we may not have understood each other very well. Personal assistance can also be used for the everyday life of people with disabilities. Of course it is desirable and it is good to use it on such occasions. However, you must bear in mind that personal assistance is necessary and necessary for people with disabilities in the workplace, such as someone who has reduced intellectual skills needs to be prepared or trained for the job and to be there while doing the job, so is the person who has no mental interference and has a physical handicap the necessary personal assistance service. Such a person will not need counselling or training or monitoring at work. The person who is physically disabled and is completely intellectually intact in their capacities does not need anyone who will follow them in their work, but they need someone who, with personal assistance, will enable them to make up for their physical handicap in some way. For this reason, we believe that personal assistance in the work of disabled people must enter this solution. It's not just a social measure, it's just something that needs to be in the Social Security Act, because it's an explanation you've given, but it's also a service that it takes for a person with a physical disability to be able to do his job at work. That is why it is a place of personal assistance and in the Employment Act. I think we understand each other and I want to say that for this amendment and for all the other amendments that I have made along with my colleague Kovac, we have not invented those amendments. You know for a fact that many colleagues and colleagues from other parliamentary groups have submitted the same amendments with the same reasons, and that is not because we have all come up with the text, but because we have received a proposal from representatives of the organisation of persons with disabilities. I will say that the amendment that you have accepted and it is not this, it is not my amendment, but it is the merit of the Organization of Persons with Disabilities because we all have good co-operation with civil society and when it comes to other topics. So, to return to this amendment, please consider this and bear in mind that personal assistance is not just something used outside the workplace but that it is something that the existing law allows. This is just one proposed provision that specifies the existing Article 23 in a better way and stresses that personal assistance is also a kind of assistance. You already have an assistant service in article 23. What's called personal is nothing that would be contrary to the logic and text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14941	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Mirjana Dragas, Stefana Miladanovic, Vesna Jovicki and Djorđe Milicevic, joint MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Teodora Vlahović, and joint MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik and Dragan Antic, together. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14942	Dear President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I expect a large number of MPs to accept the amendment submitted by my colleagues Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Teodora Vlahovic. I sincerely hope that the chairman of the National Assembly himself will support this amendment, which is in fact the same amendment, regardless of what is technically different, even in relation to the amendment itself. The fact is that it is necessary to provide for the law to be provided and to provide services for personal assistance and support in the workplace for disabled people. I think that's the essence of this amendment. No matter what Article 23 paragraph 5. The Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities provides that in order to facilitate the employment of these persons, it can also be provided to adapt in the form of assistance and support services provided in the workplace, which is of paramount importance to persons who need greater support from another person, who differ from professional support for the introduction of a job or counselling. Currently, mentoring support for 12 months is provided in practice by a person with qualifications for a job that is to be employed by a person with disabilities, but is not provided with assistance in the form of an engagement of a person or a personal assistant for the practical physical support of persons with disabilities who are employed or who need to be employed and who have intellectual and professional capacity to carry out this job and who do not need mentoring help. Since this type of support has not yet been brought to life in practice, it would be necessary for this support to be clearly stated in the part of the law relating to the use of the funds of the budget fund in order to highlight the importance of providing financial resources for this type of support for the employment of persons with disabilities who need a high level of support in physical functioning, which is coming to work, movement, transfers and so on. In that sense, I believe that words should be inserted into Article 3. – for personal assistance and support services in the workplace. I sincerely expect that there is an opportunity for the government to accept this amendment, but in the extreme line, I appeal to you colleagues and colleagues that unless it is accepted by a representative of the Government to vote on that amendment when the day of the vote is.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14943	The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14944	The President-in-Office, Your Honor, Mr Minister, my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would like to join the support of this amendment as necessary. We had a colleague in the last meeting with a disabled person. I would like to remind you that there are 700,000 people with disabilities in Serbia and only 13% of them are employees. As for the trustee for gender equality, it is important to know that 50% of the requests are made to her by persons with disabilities. This amendment relating to personal assistance and how it should be accepted. It will help people with disabilities to get jobs and be equal with other people who work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14945	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by the National MP Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović and Bojana Bozanic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14946	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, amendment to Article 3, in fact, Article 3 reads – the revenue of the budget fund represents funds from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and funds from Article 26 of this Law and are used to encourage employment, professional rehabilitation, the financing of persons with disabilities in the company for professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities or social enterprise or organisation. We added – and services of personal assistance and support in the workplace. When I spoke in principle, I made it clear that the problem with the budget fund, other than that we do not have a clear overview and we do not see exactly how these funds are used, represents that one large amount of funds, it is about funds in the last year of billions and a half, which is not a negligible amount of money, remain unconsumed, because there are no jobs where people with disabilities could be employed, so we touched the issue of education, but we also touched the question of, let's say, there are physical obstacles that these people can't go through, because simply this law does not allow this budget fund to pay and finance personal assistant services that are very important, let's say, for persons with physical handicaps, who simply ask for this type of service. Therefore, this type of personal assistance differs from professional support for introduction into business and counselling. These people don't need that kind of support. They need the support of a personal assistant. I reiterate, it is truly surprising to me that the ministry did not find it appropriate to enter into talks with the National Organization of Persons with Disabilities before amending this law. They would've made it clear what their problems were. It is clear that all the MPs who have submitted these amendments here are in contact with the National Organisation, because we are trying to hear from them what their problems are. The laws serve to overcome these problems. I worked in the last term with the Children's Rights Working Group, so we had a problem, we followed the inclusion in schools, also the problem of personal assistance. When you changed the Social Labour Act, you entered personal assistant services, but he's not just a social service. In this case, he must be paid right from this budget fund. If you already have the funds, the funds exist, stay unused, try to get these people who need this kind of support to pay for a personal assistant. Then they have a chance to get a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14947	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Members of the People's Parliaments Snežana Stojanović Plavsic and Vesna Kovač, joint MPs Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Teodora Vlahović, joint MPs Gorica Gajic, Dušica Morčev, Milica Vojić Marković, Donka Banović and Bojana Božanić, and joint MPs Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stoišic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik and Dragan Andrić, together. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted these amendments. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendments are in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14948	Thank you. Dear Mr Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, in Article 32 of the original law, it is said that an employer who employs a person with disabilities without working experience for an indefinite period of time has the right to grant a salary and an employee of 12 months of minimum earnings established under labour regulations. Now, by amending and supplementing the law, you say that the employer should now have a subsidy to those earnings of up to 75% of the total cost of earnings, including social security contributions, but no more than the minimum earnings in accordance with the regulations. It is obvious that you intended as a pronoun to remain in fact this subsidy at a minimum profit level. That is why we have submitted this amendment, in the position of 2nd of this article – the grant of earnings under item 1 is equal to the minimum earnings established in accordance with the labour regulations, because when you say "no more", it can mean that it can be less than minimum earnings. That's already inadmissible. Otherwise, positive fiscal regulations and regulated taxes and contributions from those employers who hired a disabled person for 12 months. They have been released for three years from paying taxes and contributions, so that you are now returning this matter again in terms of taxes and contributions through this member confusing the employer and questioning him about what it is that subsidy. This makes it much clearer, more precisely, to subsidise 50% of the minimum earnings established under the positive labour regulations. So please, this is how it's clear to all employers what's coming to them as a subsidy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14949	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14950	I think we should accept this amendment. My colleagues Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Teodora Vlahovic have submitted an identical amendment. It is obvious that the legislator's intensity is that the profit subsidy from Article 32 continues to be at a minimum profit level. I think it is necessary to make this clear and say it, because the formula "no more than a minimum profit" can be interpreted logically so that it is possible to pay off a subsidy less than a minimum profit. The employer who employs a person with disabilities without working experience is already exempt from paying taxes on earnings and from contributing to the obligation of social and health insurance for three years from the day of employment of that person. There is no legal basis for the amendments to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities to this matter to be amended further. Reference to the contribution to compulsory social security in the context of profit subsidies in Article 6. The draft law without need creates additional confusion among employers exactly what the subsidy applies to. As a result, I think it is much better, simpler, clearer that it is said that the profit subsidy under Article 1 is equal to the minimum wage, it further says – established in accordance with the labour rules and is made according to the rules on state aid for the employment of persons with disabilities and other rules on state aid. The additional formulation – which is implemented under the rules on state aid for the employment of persons with disabilities and other State aid regulations, which are necessary for the application of State aid rules for the employment of persons with disabilities is linguistically unclear and unnecessaryly complicated, and the introduction of other rules on State aid is absolutely sufficient to include other relevant laws, regulations and other acts. It's all regulations. As a result, I find it useful to adopt this amendment, on the one hand, as regards the definition that the profit subsidy is equal to the minimum profit, and, on the other hand, to clarify the language in that second part, because each must immediately be as short as possible and as clear as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14951	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14952	Thank you. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian invention is so-called. interpretation of the law. When a law appears to people in practice where definitions are too long, inaccurate, in which you have the definition of "no more than minimum profit", then we need to interpret what that means. Does that mean it's less than possible? So all the problems in practice, and this law has to be in practice, will come from exactly what these things are completely inextricably defined. That's the first thing I see as a problem. Please think about it and all of us here today represent what the National Disabilities Organization has asked us to represent. Another problem I see is the mention of the contribution to compulsory social security in the context of income subsidies in Article 6 without the need to create additional confusion with the employer exactly what the subsidy refers to. Due to all these arguments, the text in this section should be amended in this Article 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14953	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Mirjana Dragas, Stefana Miladanovic, Vesna Jovicki and Djordje Milicevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović and Bojana Bozanic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. That someone wants a word, too? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14954	Thank you, Chairman. And this article's 7th argument would be similar to that of Article 6. In fact, just to remind ourselves, in Article 40 of the original law, the company for professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons has the right, it was then a refund of 50% of the average profit in the economy. Now we've changed that data, it's no longer a profit in the economy, it's kind of nice said by a colleague of Radmila Gerov, now it's an average income per employee in the Republic of Serbia. The amendments to this article, i.e. additions, provide that now companies for professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons have the right to subsidise earnings up to 75% of total profit costs with corresponding contributions, but no more than 50% of average earnings per employee. We're going back to this argument again. Not anymore, but no longer can mean no less, said counterpart Milica Vojic Markovic. We specialize in interpreting the law one way or another. So it's again obvious that the intention to be 50% of the average wage per employee, so it's the DSS, and I say once again, it's good that all of us, because of this most vulnerable population group, have consulted the National Disabilities Organization. Believe me, they've all gone out and told everyone what's the biggest problem with applying the law in practice. That's why we all here insist, mostly, almost equally, that you accept one more thought and accept these amendments. You can see they're almost the same. We propose that it now stands - the company for professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons has the right to monthly income subsidies for each employed person with a disability of 50% of the average earnings per employee in the Republic of Serbia according to the latest published data by the Republic of Serbia, etc. Not to repeat this, we all know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14955	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14956	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm more ashamed to report any minute now, but I just think we're trying to convince you today to accept some amendments. We said who we represent and why we represent. That's why we're trying to clarify these things today, that you're accepting some of the amendments here today, because you obviously didn't understand them or you didn't look at them enough. We've already decided in the previous article that you're complicating some things that are related to some other laws, you're combining them now. And this matter of Article 40, or Article 7, as now in this new amendment and addition proposal, is already regulated by existing fiscal regulations. We really don't see why you put this matter into this Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities? There's no need for her to be further edited. Speaking of mentioning the company for professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people, I was basically talking about some things that were unclear to me, and then I asked you a question, and I didn't get an answer. Perhaps it is time for me to get an answer, because it is very important for all the MPs in this room, and for Serbia's citizens, because as a society, we are only making as much progress as we are changing reality by law. You didn't tell me how many people with disabilities lost their jobs in the term of office past and this government? That's a very interesting piece of information. We need to know how successful the law is. I'm particularly interested in the information, just in this article 7. - how many companies for professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons have been closed in the previous period? So, in the same period, over a period of four years last government and this one now? We know of some. As far as the DSS is concerned, it's totally inadmissible. Then what do I need laws to do? So what do we need to fix if we're just closing down those enterprises that we started to hire people with disabilities? I'd like to get that information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14957	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8th of the amendment was submitted by the MP Snezana Stojanović Plassic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14958	I want to welcome the acceptance of this amendment. However, I would like to congratulate you on the fact that the amendment to Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Theodore Vlahovic has been accepted. True, the one who prepared the opinion of the National Assembly evidently did not read the contents of amendments and other MPs whose result was absolutely the same in the case of adoption. It was also necessary to formally accept the amendment which was accepted and all other amendments to be accepted, the result of which would be absolutely the same. So, the amendment to Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Theodore Vlahovic, MPs of the DS, as well as amendments of other MPs, was accepted, but it was not written in the opinion. It cannot be a different view of those who give an opinion in relation to the proposal that leads to the same result. In that sense, I'm just saying it would be good next time we have identical amendments, or amendments that produce the same result in the case of adoption, that absolutely stands. This is how it turns out that the amendment was not accepted, and essentially it was, so I felt it was the duty of all of us to say it. It is a good thing that the opposition's amendment, not only those who make up the ruling majority, has been accepted in fact, but also the opposition's amendment. That's what needs to be undermined. That's why the government doesn't lose anything. That is why I point out that only this opinion is poorly written, and it is essentially good that the amendment to the article has been accepted. 8.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14959	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14960	Thank you. You can count my time as an authorised representative of the DSS. I'll shorten our objection to the opinion delivered. My colleague Mikovic is a lawyer, and you know how lawyers explain it a little bit. I would stress, I think, that my colleague Mikovic only spoke about MPs from his parliamentary group who delivered, in the essential sense, the exact same amendment. However, here in this material that we have received, I will stress that all MPs have delivered the same amendment. It's not just opposition MPs. I'll count them. So, in the same text, the MPs Biljana Hasanović Koraić and Teodora Vlahovic, together the MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Milica Vojić Marković and Bojana Bozanić, together MPs Mirjana Dragas, Stefana Miladanovic, Vesna Jovicki and Đorđe Milicevic, together Bojan Kostreš, Đorđe Stojšić, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik and Dragan Andrić, together. We have here, I think, as many as four or five parliamentary groups that have delivered the exact content and substance of the same amendment. So I'm also pointing to a failure. When you informed us and accepted the amendment by Mrs Stojanović Plassic, who was written in a different way, she changed the proposed article and we added certain words, but it is the same. I also protest why you did not explain that, in addition to the acceptance of Mrs Stojanovic's amendment, the amendment and all other parliamentary groups were accepted. The amendment also shows, I think a lot of MPs have already talked about it, if the MPs hadn't moved, so everyone from the parliamentary groups agreed, although it would sometimes be good. I hope that this female parliamentary network will eventually come up with some joint proposals. To us persons with disabilities or representatives of the National Disabilities Organization, who were first in the Assembly, I think they spoke to MPs from all MPs, and then specifically when this bill was submitted to the final minority amendments, so since only we as MPs can submit the amendment, then each parliamentary group has done so. What surprises me very much, Mr. Minister, is that you did not take into account the similarity of the minority of the entire Assembly, or all the parliamentary groups, without even respecting the opinion of the National Disabilities Organization, which brings together organisations and which number almost 500,000 members. The Democratic Party of Serbia, I will say freely, had the intention because we expected a greater understanding than the promoter to absolutely support this amendment and the amendments to the law. However, when you accepted only one amendment, which came to us from the National Organization of Persons with Disabilities, you did not have three, which are very important, we will consider until Monday how we will vote for this law, so before we are in the debate in principle, and while MPs talked about specific life problems, problems in practice, you have nod, which means that you and how you are informed about what problems a person with disabilities encounters in employment, that there is not enough support, that there are no personal assistants. I understand when you say it – it is not the subject of this law, it is the Social Protection Act, a new law that provides for a series of measures. But, let me say, probably because of the economic crisis, a lack of financial resources is not used at the level of local self-government. Local self-governments say – we don't have the money in our budgets to pay personal assistants, work assistants. I also talked about school inclusion problems, that in schools teachers, parents, children, school service just don't know what to do because they don't have teaching assistants. I see all this as the same problem. That's how it bothers me when you say - this isn't what you say now, it can't be here because it's not the subject of this law, it's the subject of some other law. This must be seen as a whole and your ministry is a whole. So you in the ministry probably have different sectors, one of which deals with this, the other one, but that's the whole thing. It's not an accident for your ministry to put together. So don't tell us you can't accept this because it's not the subject of that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14961	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14962	Thank you, Chairman. Yes, we agreed that this was an amendment that I highly respect, which all the parliamentary groups submitted, and of course you accepted that it was only Mrs. Snezana Plasic's amendment. Please, in the future, if this is almost identical, state all the parliamentary groups that have submitted such an amendment. For the sake of the public, since we've all talked about this problem, let's just specify what it is that we've been trying to change again with the amendment. According to the existing law of Article 41, the budget resources other than for the grant of earnings can also be provided to improve working conditions, improve production programmes, introduce standards, improve the quality of products and services of this company, adapt jobs, etc. You have kind of deleted all of these changes and additions, and the rest is that the funds can be provided to this company to improve working conditions, which is a much narrower framework. We're going back to the fact that we can interpret the law one way or the other. If this amendment remains, thank God you accepted it, we understand that for all these purposes and future funds can be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14963	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Teodora Vlahović, joint MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Milica Vojić Marković, Donka Banović and Bojana Bozanić, joint MPs Mirjana Dragas, Stefana Miladinović, Vesna Jovicki and Djordje Milicevic, together Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojšić, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik and Dragan Andrić. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted these amendments. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendments are in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14964	Since it's very similar to the previous amendment, I'm not going to waste too much time, I'm just gonna remind you that if you don't respect everything we've said here, I repeat again, on behalf of the National Organisation, it's good to look at what the Citizens' Protector has found when it comes to hiring people with disabilities, finding out what the problems are and proposing measures. One measure is contained in this article, and it would be good to treat it that way. Several very important actors point to which direction this law should go. I don't understand why you're so stubborn that what you wrote is the only thing that's right, if all these actors who are very focused on matter notice that this could all be fixed. Because everyone has the same need that you have, to improve the position of people with disabilities, and to help them get a job. All research says how poor they are, what difficulties they have in life. A large number of them live on the edge of poverty. Society definitely needs to define that when it corrects the laws then it corrects in their interest, if we're going to interpret who their interest defends better than themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14965	MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14966	Since the amendments of my colleagues Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Theodore Vlahovic and other MPs who have given such an amendment are now being considered, I call on the government's representative to officially accept all these amendments that are in the same text and which have the same result as the amendment that has been adopted and that come from organisations that deal with it. I call upon you now to be heard by the Government's representative and to accept the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14967	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović and Bojana Bozanic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14968	Thank you, Chairman. In this amendment to Article 9, we considered this to be a technical amendment because Article 44 of the Law defined that spatial technical conditions, professional training of employees and other conditions at work centres were signed by the Minister of Employment and the Minister for Social Policy Affairs. That was because in the past term the ministries were separated. As it is today, since there is one Minister and one Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, we felt it was most normal that these conditions should now be signed and that so should be the minister of labour, the employment of the social policy, as it is called in this government. Just to bring the current situation into line with the legal proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14969	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Ranka Savik.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14970	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, this amendment refers to what colleague Gerov was talking about. In fact, it aims to make a clear distinction between average profits in the economy and average earnings per employee in the Republic of Serbia, which is also called for by Article 10. It's a bill of law. We know well that this law refers directly to the economy, that the average profit in the economy is about 25% lower than the republican average, so it should be kept in mind that the economy is not additionally burdened. I really don't want anyone to get me wrong and think I'm not even informed about the state of people with disabilities in Serbia. Doing this job and how I am directed to the disastrous position of people with disabilities in Serbia. According to the World Bank in Serbia today, around 800,000 people with various types of disability and what is particularly devastating is that everything around 13% is sustained from their own work. But on the other hand, you have to, I'm talking to a normal proposer, and you realize that I'm also well aware of the opportunities in the private, i.e. the real sector, and I know what a disastrous situation is in this second part, i.e. in the economy. Today, the private sector, i.e. the economy of the Greeks, is burdened with huge public expenditures, and, for the sake of the public, I must remind that we are the state with the highest rate of tax and contribution, one of the few and countries that has an enormously high rate of tax and contribution of 63%. Since I am a man of practice and since I have talked to employers in the private sector these days, I know that the reactions to this law are absolutely negative and that already the confusion and confusion among the real sector employees, because they are afraid that by burdening employers and increasing the isolation and burdens that these amendments will surely bring to them. Workers fear that one of the employer's measures, faced with inequity, will resort to new layoffs by defending themselves from new duties. There's a very dangerous phenomenon here. I don't know if the bill promoter is aware of it, which is that it comes to, let's not use that word, the conflict between these two groups or the group of workers. In fact, employees in the private and real sectors blame disabled persons, unfortunately for losing their jobs. I think the legislator must take care of it, or the proposing must take care of this and not lead to such a situation that will inevitably arise. So no one will be able to avoid new layoffs if the employer, and by law, has to do this, he will absolutely defend himself by new layoffs. I urge that, in order to find the environment, we take care of disabled persons, but also to take care of real sector employees, because I think it's enough information that we've lost about 400,000 jobs in this past period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14971	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14972	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, since I come from the real sector, I will vote in favour of this amendment. Also, I welcome the intention of the legislator who abolished it, it seems to me, Article 4 and thus reduced the obligations of those operators who do not employ disabled persons after 20 employees and do not employ one person with disabilities every 50 years. Those pens were dragonish and had to be paid by the 30th of the month. Therefore, they have burdened significantly the economy, more significantly than this proposal provides. It is fair to commend the legislator for his intention to remove these dragon pens. It should also be commended by the amendment's promoter, given that our average, as this law provides, is far higher than the economic income average. It's no secret that we've lost 400,000 jobs in the last four years, and I think we've lost over 800,000 jobs in the last 12 years. It is no secret that out of these 400,000 jobs are lost in the economy and most of them are lost because the economy is what it is, weak, and in the country, which we have found completely economically devastated, this weak economy has not been able to bear the additional costs of overpriced state and social contributions that so poorly developed economy has not been able to endure. It's no secret that a certain number of jobs have been lost. If we accept this amendment, then we will disburse the economy for a part, given that the amendment's proposed commitment to the private sector, which is that the obligation is reduced and reduced to 50% of the average profit in the economy, which is far less than the average profit in the Republic. It is also no secret that in the public sector wages are far higher than in the economy, while the economy supports the public sector. So it's business where we charge the budget. Of course, we live off the man in charge, but we should live off the money, because it's the economy that makes the money. It's no secret that the public sector lives as it pleases, that our country is too expensive, and that it lives in private as it must. With that in mind, I don't see where the amendment comes from. Sure, I speak for myself, I'll vote for this amendment. I've already said that the public sector lives as it pleases, and privately as it must, in the public sector there are 600,000 people and they don't, as far as I know, have this obligation to pay. I don't have the information that they paid for some of the pens in the last period because they didn't meet their legal obligation and I don't know if they were even related to them. I'm going to say that there are opposite examples in the public sector, that people who get sick, say, in the mayor's office, automatically when they get back from sick, they go back to worse jobs, they get paid 40%, and if some percentage of disability is acquired during the sick period, the first category becomes disabled, then he is threatened that if that disability is reported, he will be fired. So, not only did the public sector not respect it, nor did they apply to it, but even in some parts of the public sector, I cited the example of the city of Belgrade, in a certain way haunting the sick and those who, through the disease, seem to be the first category of disability. It's the public sector that didn't pay for the foam. The public sector will be the one who won't pay these 50%, but their high wages will count on that average. This money goes to the fund and supports that money going to the disability rehabilitation fund. I ask the ministry to consider, given that there is, and I have already said, a request from the Alliance of Disabled Workers in Vojvodina, some organisations, associations in Serbia, it came to me from India, that disabled people, who are technologically surpluses and who receive only a partial pension of 50%, are translated into full, given that in these small environments, in most areas, they do not have the opportunity to re-employ and to supplement some of their incomes. To conclude, given the situation in our economy, which has been found, this amendment should be supported by me, but it should also be said and be fair and from the opposition to say whether the legislator, the legislator, has freed the economy of those raw foams that were three average salaries by the 30th of the month, which was very harsh towards this same private sector, which we are now defending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14973	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14974	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, the honourable representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. First of all, I would ask one question – do you really believe that with these amendments and amendments to the law, you will correct the law? Do you really believe that you are doing this in the interest of users, who should actually be users, which are persons with disabilities? Do you really believe that you are reducing the obligations of the economy, so those who are obliged to pay something to a budget fund? If you really believe that, I can tell you that you believe it wrong. This is just one law of good intentions and good will. Let's take your word for it. If you look at what happens to the economy, with the economy, then I can let you know that in the first two years we have less budget revenue than 17.8 billion. Less excise income, than VAT, as well as non-tax revenues. How do you think you finance everything you've set out in this bill, and how do you think that economy can carry that burden that you're definitely imposing on the economy and that this country is somehow distanced from it? Why are you putting a question of one social security in the economy, one humane relationship with people with disabilities? Why don't you say what needs to be done, to change something in the economy, in the overall economic policy, so that everyone in this country can live better, and also people with disabilities? This is just one mere form, these are technical changes, and I don't know how you think you're implementing this law. Do you, with this bill of law, literally abuse... (President: Mrs Popovic, I remind you that now the debate is in particular and that we are talking about an amendment to Article 10. Please, let's get back to the subject. Madam Chairman, here's the deal. For one single reason, the amendment of the LDP MPs was rejected. One reason, and this is because the Republic Statistics Institute does not publish data on the average income in the economy of the Republic of Serbia. It doesn't announce what the average profit in the economy is, which is 25% less than the republican average. What's that? It's silence. All that I was saying was precisely for the purpose of saying, to show how abuse of facial marginalization is being committed, such as in this case persons with disabilities, such as yesterday, breast-feeding, or maternity, with those amendments to the Labour Act, as we talked so much about amendments to the Criminal Code, that is, what was the subject of Mary's Law. Therefore, it is very good when such a law is put into context, when it is put into real frames, and when it is openly discussed. How do you think in this situation, when 30% of people are unemployed, when there's still this trend of getting more and more fired employees, how do you think you're improving the position of people with disabilities. (President: Mrs Popovic, I will remind you again on the subject. Please, we're talking about an amendment to Article 9. Go back to the subject. ) Simply, we need to talk about the whole law because this amendment is key in the way you treat the problem. You're keeping the basic facts quiet. You're not saying that you're putting all the burden of implementing this law on the economy, and that's true, and that amendment is very simple, it shows, and it actually points to everything that I just said. You cannot, as the only reason for not accepting that amendment, indicate the absence of certain statistics. Then why are we sitting here? So let's change the decision that, among other things, the average profit in the economy is statistically processed and published. If that's the only reason, I don't think there's any reason to refuse this amendment. This is an opportunity for you to show that you are realistic, that you are rational, to take care of the state of the economy, and to take care of people with disabilities, and not only to abuse the position of those persons and to announce to us what improvement these amendments make to the law. There's no improvement, I'm telling you, and the whole law and all the arguments that you've turned down these amendments are just an argument for what I just said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14975	Thank you. National MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14976	Thank you. This amendment and amendment of Article 1 were practically the only fundamental changes in this bill, although we also see from the discussion of MPs that what you have treated as a mere alignment with the strategy and the Law on Official Statistics or the Law on State Aid, that this is not a mere consensus and that it does have serious consequences. I think that when I speak in principle in the debate, and yet relying on the opinion of the National Disabilities Organization, it is a good thing that in some way these penalty pens are lifted, so to say, by saying that only 1% of the statistics are in this budget fund for professional rehabilitation and support for employment, income from these pens, which will say that employers have been viewed through their fingers or that the inspection has not done their job, etc., but it will not be the first time in Serbia that those who regularly pay all turns out funny when the state decides to forgive debts, at some point. So it won't be the first time. When I debated the debate in principle, I pointed to the problem and to the indignity of employers, i.e. private sector, who claim and complain that they believe that they bear "the greatest burden" of this law, i.e. the employment of persons with disabilities. They also point out, but also people with disabilities, and we here need to point out that it is public enterprises and state enterprises that should serve as a good example, and that we rely only later on private entrepreneurs. In a law which is not subject, therefore, that member is not the subject of these amendments, there is also this Article 3 where the employer is referred to as, I think, even point 3. I have suggested to you, if you are, and I hope you want to make one more serious amendment to this law, that there are, in addition to the number of state-owned enterprises, so to speak, that these are also public enterprises, i.e. both public enterprises and local and republican companies absolutely have an obligation to comply with the provisions of this law. Turns out the state does something, does some superzakons, and then that country itself doesn't apply it. I think it was also in the previous discussion that we, as a Republic Assembly, should also ask ourselves how much we respect the provisions of this law and whether we have ever thought about respecting this law. I don't know, I guess we'll get an answer from the Secretary of Parliament in due course, when an analysis is made, etc., but let's start applying this law, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14977	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I thank the representatives of the government. Now we're gonna take a break. We'll continue at 15.00 hours with the next agenda. THE PRESIDENT OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY (15.05 hours)
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14978	Dear People's MPs, I would like to inform you that we have not yet received the Government's opinion on the amendments, due to technical nature. We expect him to arrive in an hour, so the start of the session will be up in 1600 hours. We'll continue our work at 1600 hours. Thank you very much. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Before we move on to the amendment debate, let me let you know that we'll be working after 1800 hours to finish these amendments. I also inform you that, on the basis of Article 128, MPs are obliged to carry identification cards with them on their way out of the National Assembly Hall. If the MP leaves the National Assembly Hall and leaves in the MP’s unit, or next to it, his identification card, the National Assembly Service will immediately forward that card to the Secretary - General of the National Assembly. The card will be returned to the People's MP upon entering the O.R. Take this for granted. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called on today's session, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Ivan Mrkic, Foreign Minister Nikola Selaković, Minister of Justice and State Administration and Prof. Zorana Mihajlović, Minister of Energy, Labour and Environmental Protection, to attend: Zoran Marković, Secretary General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Natasa Kalezić, Head of the Department of International Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mira Jegdić, First Advisor at the Department of International Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Nina Veličković. We move to the eighth item of the agenda: Proposal for a CONCLUSION LAW AND IMPLEMENTATION OF INTERNATIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Dubravka Filipovski, Donka Banović, Milos Aligrudić, Miroljub Stojčić, Djordje Milicevic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Slobodan Samardžić, Judita Popović, Radmila Gerov, Bojan Đurić, Zoran Ostojrević, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zlata Djerić and Mr Vladimir Ilic, as well as the amendment of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. You have received a report from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the Foreign Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs Donka Banovic and Milos Aligrudic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Foreign Affairs Committee has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14980	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First, I will say what the interventions of this amendment are and what we have proposed to change in the proposed Article 2 of Article 1, and this is also the amendment of Mrs Dubravka Filipovski. The first sentence of the first sentence in the bill states that an international contract is a contract concluded by the Republic of Serbia in writing with one or more states or with one or more international organisations, etc. With this amendment, Mr Aligrudić and I suggest that the words "in writing" be replaced by the words "in writing", i.e. to be grammatically correct. That's what Mrs Filipovski suggested. I'm sorry she's not here, she'd confirm it, but MPs can take a look. So, it's exactly the same amendment, and we also suggest that it change, the government accepts Mrs Dubravka Filipovski's amendment and rejects the amendment of the MPs from the DSS. This happens too often in our congregation and I don't think it's right. It should say that Mrs Filipovski's amendment, as well as the amendment of the DSS MPs, has been accepted. To make the confusion even bigger, we have received a report from the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia, where it says that the Committee has accepted the amendment and Mrs Filipovska and the MPs of the DSS, but the government in this opinion which we have now received tells us that it accepts one and does not accept the other, although they are identical. What does that show me? First, what does this mistake show? So this is a lapus kalami. Surely the people who wrote this law, now ask them what is right, whether in writing or in writing, will know the correct answer that it is in writing. We have information that this bill has practically been written in the competent ministry for five years. What does this mistake show? It shows that the people who wrote this law did not do it properly and did not pay enough attention to the proposed law. As an MP to the opposition, I protest because you accept the amendment of the MPs who support the government, I know that he's a million to the government than those MPs who don't support it, but I would ask you not to do this in the future, because somehow we feel bad when this shows up.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14981	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14982	You're absolutely right that it's not right and it's not right to feel bad. It is the same amendment and of course we accept it, because it is the same as this amendment that the government has accepted. Therefore, I, as an authorised representative, can say that everything is now settled. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14983	So the amendment is accepted. The word has a Neven Florist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14984	I thank you for the words of the Honorable Chairman. I would not take too much time for this home and for the citizens who watch this, since the amendment has been accepted, I would just follow this amendment with a little comment. I would quote the great lawyer Valtazar Bogisic, who said 100 years ago that it doesn't matter just how the laws work, how functional they are, it is equally important that they are written in a beautiful language. We have a beautiful language and in this sense I would also like to thank colleagues Dubravka Filipovski and distinguished colleague Donki Banović and her colleagues for making time for this little correction because I think we will have a more legible law and according to our language, a nicer law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14985	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14986	I am pleasantly surprised that a representative of the government has accepted this amendment, which has become an integral part of the text. I would be happy if such a conclusion were discussed in the Government, because in the morning part, or before the break, when we worked and discussed the previous law, we had a similar situation – that a large number of MPs from different political groups had proposed an identical amendment, only one amendment was that the text so far was practically changed with the new text and the other amendments were directed to include words in the text so far, but the effect would ultimately be the same. In that situation, amendments to that number of MPs were not accepted. That is why I sincerely hope that this very attitude that the Minister has made here, that it should be accepted by other representatives of the Government who come here to defend the laws. So if the effect of the amendment submitted for adoption is the same, then it should be the relationship between all those who decide on the amendment absolutely the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14987	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14988	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have no objection to what this amendment has been accepted, but by accepting this amendment it is also necessary to draw attention to the professors of law school who use and insist on the words "literate form". So, I already had some discussion about two, three months ago, similar nature, and then I informed myself. So, Gassa Knezevic and Tibor Varadi. Tibor Varadi is one of the recognized lawyers. Some textbooks say it should be written in writing, not in writing. Who do you trust? Is it law professors or language experts? I think we're closer, though, when laws are passed, to the interpretation of law school. But I don't mind what he's adopted, but he's going to remain unmistakably, given that I've been informed that the professors at law school are just insisting otherwise, as it said in the bill. What I am pleased, I am glad that someone confirmed that this law, written five years ago, was what I claimed to be standing by and that now the new government had let it into the procedure, so that nothing had changed, that it had been proposed in that text, since that illiteracy was supposed to have been transferred to the new government and to the new ruling majority. On the one hand, I am pleased that someone had found it to confirm it, because someone else had previously said that it was not true that it was written by a former government, but it was written by the present and that it was illiterate. I'm glad that it was established, if illiteracy had occurred, that it had not come to the hands of this government, part of this government, but that it had occurred during writing, or during the term of office of the old government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14989	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14990	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I certainly share the satisfaction that this amendment has been accepted. I am pleased that some of my colleagues from the ruling majority, since the president has so successfully graduated from them, are now showing interest in going to college and I'm glad they're following it, but they don't need to deceive the public. So when we write the law, we write it right. Those who don't know how to prescribe it, that's their incompetence. Don't let their incompetence transfer to our shoulders. I am pleased that this amendment has been accepted, but let me make a deal with you from the ruling majority, let this be the last time you deliver such illiterate laws to the National Assembly. Let this be a key point when you start applying Serbian the way grammar requires. Your interest in college events can be celebrated in your spare time, going to colleges. Maybe there's more of these colleges where fake diplomas are made, so buy some of which and satisfy your youth and childhood complexes. Thank you. (Marian Risticevic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14991	You have no right to a replica, he didn't mention you. Mr. Risticevic, you have no basis, really, we're not going to discuss trivial things here right now. He didn't call you, so you don't have a basis, so let's move on. (Marian Rističevic, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14992	First, you didn't talk about the subject, and secondly, there were offensive expressions. Article 104 said we went to colleges, falsified diplomas, we were told to treat complexes, etc., so, speaking to someone he said that. If he meant us, I don't have any complexes. I haven't studied in eight, nine years, as a previous speaker. I have no reason to go to colleges for nine years for a degree. I have no reason to insult anyone because he was or wasn't in college. I simply tried to quote some of the prominent professors, so I included Tibor Varadi and Gus Knezevic. That's what all the insults came up with. I don't understand what else a man has to say, so let's understand that by insulting others, we insult ourselves. This isn't the first time. The previous speaker speaks offensively of anyone. This is where he said that some MPs were visiting colleges, treating complexes, etc. I don't know who he meant, but whoever he meant, I think it's offensive to the National Assembly. Of course, he's going to continue with that kind of exposure, and I don't mind that he doesn't get any criminal measures, which he doesn't get any warnings and warnings. I'm always tolerated by the opposition. I'm just wondering which institution is missing a patient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14993	I don't think he's hurt his Rules of Procedure. It is true that Mr Milivojevic mentioned it in the plural. I can't tell from his statement that it's any face. The fact that he was using the crowd can refer to any of us, but I have no reason to comment on it right now. Do you think we should plead? (Marian Risticevic, from the post: I do not ask to be voted.) Srdjan Milivojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14994	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 32, where he says the Vice-President of the National Assembly is helping the president of the National Assembly do business in his work and is said to have the same powers as the president of the National Assembly, but is not said to have greater powers. So I'm asking you to take care of the dignity of this home because when I talked about falsifying a diploma, I wasn't talking about falsifying a seal, so some of you would recognize each other, I was talking about falsifying a diploma. I know there are representatives and some peasant parties here. I'm a graduate agricultural engineer. I graduated from college before the deadline, but at that agricultural college, I had a class and cattle and warfare. If falsifying the seal on the potato is an area of war, and forging the seal on the egg is an area of livestock, I understand the replica and recognition.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14995	I also don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure in this case. Marijan Risticevic probably felt the need to react to it. I had to give him his right to think so. I don't think he was right, which I told him, therefore, I don't think there was any breach of the Rules of Procedure. Also, if you think we should make a statement in the voting day, please state whether or not we should vote on this. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: No. Thank you. ) (Marian Rističević, from the city: According to Business. Since you don't give me the right to a replica, then according to the Rules of Procedure. ) You can do it by the Rules of Procedure, but please don't abuse him.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14997	Mr. Chairman, you should have been a member of 103, I have the right to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, therefore, related to Members 104, 106 and 107, even Article 108. So the previous speaker is even trying to assume the authority of the president of the assembly. He wasn't talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, but he was talking and making up, not to say he was telling lies, in some kind of replica. We don't know how much he studied, nor do I care, but this is the second time he's been very insulting towards certain MPs, I'm not talking to who. What he's saying is, it's kind of his mouse's courage, it doesn't apply to me at all. (President: Please just, Risticevic, you must, when it comes to hurting the Rules of Procedure, indicate what the chairman has done the injury, which is his procedure in relation to the infringement of the Rules of Procedure. ) Your procedure is as follows, you did not respond to the facts and circumstances that the previous speaker did not speak about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, but that he sent a classic offensive message, imputing crimes for which no one in my environment was ever blamed or accused. So he's not responsible for the words spoken for the pay phone, he can insult the will, but he can't insult at all, and he can't particularly insult the advertising of the Rules of Procedure. So I mean, this isn't his first time, I don't know what time this is. (Chairman: Don't do it again, Risticevic, please, stick to the injury of the Rules of Procedure. I'm sticking to the injury of the Rules of Procedure. (President: As soon as you cross over, to interpret the thoughts of the speaker, the previous one, it is already a replica. I don't interpret his thoughts, I interpret his works. So, he wasn't talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, he was already directing a classic replica by inventing a crime. (President: I will answer you. That's very offensive, and I'm asking you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14998	So, if you've followed well, in time I warned the gentleman, MP Srdjan Milivojevic, that he had moved from the violation of the Rules of Procedure to the replica. I have to admit, that's when he broke up, the moment I warned him. I can't, I have to accept, maybe I'm not so smart and capable of knowing in advance what any of you are going to say. I need to hear what you're about to say and then react. So I've reacted to Milivojevic, and compared to you, I've allowed you to speak as long as it's about hurting the Rules of Procedure and I'll stick to it. So, I don't think the Rules of Procedure are hurt, and if you think we should make a statement about it, you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u14999	No, thank you, I've changed my mind. We don't want to waste any time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15000	Thank you, too. Parliamentarians Miroljub Stojicic and Djordje Milicevic submitted together to the 4th amendment. The government and the Foreign Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Miroljub Stojcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15001	I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 where the first position is – an initiative to launch a negotiation process and conclude an international contract – can also be given by other state bodies, economic operators or associations through the authorities of the state administration, whose work is mainly covered by issues governed by the international contract. With my amendment, I have suggested that the words of the local self-government unit be added, that local self-government units may be initiators and give an initiative to initiate the negotiation procedure in this law. There's more reason for that. Since this is also contained in the Law on Local Self-Government, where local self-government units are given the opportunity to establish co-operation and conclude agreements with also territorial units and local self-government of other countries. I really don't understand, which is why all units of local self-government are disqualified that they can't be initiators and negotiate in this law. The disqualification, above all, applies to all local self-government, starting with Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac, and to those small, such as Trgovište, Senta, Sjenica. I propose to the promoter to reconsider his decision in this regard, to give opportunities to local self-governments so that they can initiate and make a proposal and a recommendation for the conclusion of international contracts. First of all, there is a reason why we have an extremely active local self-government and all local self-governments are also members of the euro-region that we are working with others, from other countries in the environment and possibly that, in the coming period, opportunities and needs are created for the involvement of local communities and the use of this law. I will just point out that as president of a group of friendships with Greece, I have seen 58 Serbian cities co-operate with Greek cities. Therefore, it should be taken into account that co-operation between local communities. Please reconsider and create opportunities for local self-government to be initiators of the process and negotiations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15002	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15003	I'll be very brief. First, that co-operation that you mentioned between the municipalities certainly does not have the character of an international contract. What I see in my reasoning, therefore, according to the current Law on Local Self-Government is not considered to be international contracts, even under this current law that we are now amending, too, an initiative to conduct negotiations, the conclusion of negotiations and so on is not foreseen. So, even with the law in force, and with all this in mind and everything that's in the end and in the very explanation it stands for you. For this reason, the government has not accepted this amendment of yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15004	The word is by the People's Messenger Miroljub Stoicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15005	Dear Ministers, given that this law will probably last as long as this one, and it has lasted 35 years before, for practical reasons I believe and will likely create conditions for the proposings and triggers of initiatives for the conclusion of international agreements to be local communities. Therefore, it was my recommendation and the position of the SPS Parliament Club to build in the law that local self-government could be initiators for the initiation of procedures and the conclusion of international contracts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15006	The word has a Neven Florist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15007	Dear Chairman, I thank you for your word. I would just like to convey very briefly what was happening on the Committee yesterday so that the citizens would be informed about the discussion that was on this amendment and to explain something in relation to what the previous counterpart Stojcic said. So this law regulates international legal action. This is the highest-level activity in which the state participates as an entity. With full respect to all units of local self-government and with full respect for their right to initiate what they think is in their best interests, that's another level. It's a level of local self-government that differs from the level of state that goes to international legal action. With full respect for fellow Stojcic and his right to submit an amendment, he said local self-government can conclude agreements. This law doesn't regulate agreements, it regulates contracts. In a legal sense, there is a difference between the concept of an agreement and the concept of a contract. What's very important to understand is that we need to simplify state policy in order for international legal activity to be optimal. This does not mean that units of local self-government have no way of acting through competent ministries on what will be entered into the text of a specific international contract. At the end of the presentation on this amendment, I would ask all fellow Members of Parliament to remain in the debate on the concrete words of these amendments and of this law, not to report or discuss topics which are not subject to today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15008	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15009	You see, when we accept something, when we suggest something, when we refuse something, we need to keep in mind and what is currently in force. Currently, the Law on the conclusion of international contracts, which was passed in 1978, was signed by the President of the Republic of Josip Broz Tito and as president of the SFRJ Assembly, Comrade Dragoslav Markovic. Under the current SIV law, i.e. the Government - it is required to initiate the procedure for the conduct of negotiations and the conclusion of international contracts in accordance with established foreign policy of the SFRY following the conclusion of the SFRJ Assembly, at the request of the President, or the Presidency of the SFRY, at the request of the competent authority of the Republic, or the AP on the proposal of the Union of Communists of Yugoslavia, the Socialist Union of the People of Yugoslavia, the Union of the Union of Yugoslavia, and at the proposal of the Constitutional Court of Yugoslavia, the Federal Court of Justice and the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia. That's mandatory. The initiative to initiate the negotiation process and conclude international contracts can be provided by organisations of joint work, each company, self-government interest communities and other self-government organisations, communities and socio-political and other social organisations and associations of citizens. It's okay, we're changing that. The text now reads this - an initiative to launch a negotiation process and conclude an international contract can also be given by other state bodies, economic operators or associations through the authorities of the state administration whose work mainly includes issues governed by the international contract. I don't see why anyone is afraid to accept the good amendment of Mr Miroljub Stojcic and Djorđa Milicevic who say the initiative of the unit of local self-government. So, you can't So Vranje, from where Mr. Stojcic is to give the initiative, but you can Association of Doves in Vranj to give an initiative to conclude an international contract. Is it normal or isn't it normal? So, if we allow citizens' associations to launch initiatives, whether the assembly of any local self-government is more legitimate than any association, than the association of fishermen, than any association in sport or anywhere. I think enough arguments have been given so far, and I urge the Government's representative to accept this absolutely established amendment, and thus we will contribute to the affirmation of the rights of every local self-government. If this is under the current law, why not have a future one, especially as it allows various organisations and associations to be initiators. Every initiative will be considered, let it be accepted, and let it not be accepted. Why are we running away from permission to have an initiative?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15010	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15011	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, Mr. Stojcic, I will certainly vote in favour of this amendment and I, as a Kruševljanin, thank you as a Vranjanac for having submitted this amendment, because as my colleague Srdjan Mikovic explained well, I believe that local self-government and how they should have the initiative, to submit such proposals to the Government and to do so, because we should have an initiative with local self-government for each international co-operation, especially when we look at that already, at this moment, to pursue such a desire for regional and interstate co-operation that comes from local self-government. In 2002, a project of co-operation of the cities of Sofia, Skopje and Nis was launched in Nis. It is a huge project and co-operation, and three major regions will certainly need to establish some closer contacts to sign certain contracts that will monitor this co-operation. I think that with all due respect to the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I think that an initiative should be considered to accept this amendment. It is not said here that local self-government will conclude international contracts, and they have the right to give an initiative. Just to give you a plastic example, imagine when Mr. Bačević finishes the channel Belgrade – Stalac – Shop – Dragobuže – Thessaloniki, how many new initiatives will there be? Imagine the initiative that the series, instead of "On the Foam of the Sea", works in Vranj on "The Foam of the Sea", imagine how much I will be there for cultural co-operation, for those of you who call me, that's what it looks like when you call me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15012	First Milos Aligrudic, by amendment, then Miodrag Djidic, Marijan Risticevic. Here you go, Mr. Arsic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15013	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am delighted that people who are trying to say something and that any attempt to do anything, condemns already in advance, and forgets that local self-governments have their powers defined by law and do not interfere with international contracts, because Article 4 itself says - from the area of the work of the Association of Business Entities, etc. And what part of the work of local self-government? We already have legal solutions that allow local self-governments to team up with other units of local self-government in the world, and what is the problem, are they being defended, have they done, have such large democratic authorities, such as the government in Novi Sad, the formerly banned from joining more units of local self-government with the town of Novi Sad if they are from the same country? You were so advanced when you brought the statutes of the city of Novi Sad. Yes, only with one unit can you go to Novi Sad according to the current statutes you've brought, to brother. Then you mention Mr. Bačević, and we didn't spoil anything, we're trying to do it. Look what you've ruined. As I said many times, if there were no brave people in this country, there would be no TE in Kostolc, no TE in Obrenovac, no HE on Gerdap, there would have been nothing, if you had wondered 30 or 40 years ago, but some people who wanted to do something for their country with their enthusiasm, regardless of their ideology. It seems to me that you're first in ideology, and that's your biggest mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15014	Replica, Srdjan Milivojevic, has the right to replicate, does not have the right to replicate the breach of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15015	I have the right to a replica, because I am directly mentioned as a previous speaker. So, since I'm directly mentioned, I apologize to the applicant for the amendment, you have submitted a wonderful amendment and now little of this comes out of the context that you have had, but I will give you my word and I will vote for this amendment of yours. I think it's great. When we talk about people with vision, where we're lucky some people had the brains, how many people have visions in 1991, then we wouldn't have a broken country, bombed bridges, escaped, expelled, we wouldn't have a broken infrastructure in this country. Where luck we had people who had the courage, how many visionaries from the DS, so that the policy they accepted in 2013, they accepted in 1991, when they entered politics, how much happier Serbia today would be, the European state, without having problems that it solves in a very difficult way away from the public's eyes. How much better would it be if some who think they have a vision and if Serbia's history started with them, if they only had enough wisdom to hear and hear what we said, Serbia would be much happier. Before you point your finger at DS, try to keep your hands clean, if at least your conscience can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15016	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15017	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, both my hands and my conscience were a cleaner, before God and before the law, and as someone mentioned some kind of bomb, we didn't throw the bombs, we threw someone else. It's true that bridges and roads and roads have been destroyed, but since October 5th these bombs are gone, roads are even more destroyed, factories are even more closed, and the bridges you're building are no longer anyone to use, and that's why we can't blame someone else who came 10,000 miles away, but you who were in power. Don't bother digging up any more of this stuff that's happening to you in the party right now. Don't be surprised about the affairs that are opening, or the Agrobank, or the Vojvodina Development Bank, or the Galenika, or the Sartid. What do you wonder? Well, it's your affairs. You think that's funny? If that's funny to you, I'd like you to come some way to those factories that are closed while you're in power and explain why they're closed, not to be here, in the Serbian Parliament, to be safe. When you were ministers, you needed to drive your cars a little bit more, not the state, to see what your paths were, how your citizens were, to turn around, to see how closed the factory really was. Now we're arguing about an amendment submitted by a colleague from my coalition. Well, all right, he had the best wish, something good he had in mind to do. Maybe he knew, maybe he didn't, I don't know, but I know I was planning on destroying the state like you were destroying, I wouldn't know, and I couldn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15018	National MP Srdjan Mikovic is advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Please, we're done with the replicas. This isn't going anywhere anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15019	According to Article 107, the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and I believe that, if someone is telling the obvious falsehood, that you are obliged to warn him, especially as this is about a specific article 4. It's a bill of law. In order not to misread whether this or that is written, the discussion said that state authorities, economic operators or associations could submit initiatives from their area. No, I don't. That's not what it says. It says here that the initiative...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15020	Please...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15021	Let me just finish. I have to finish thinking about it in order to be clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15022	I know, but you've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you're going back to the amendment. Don't, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15023	It's a lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15024	All right, but don't explain the amendment again.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15025	I'm not explaining the amendment, I'm just saying that there's been a false statement here and that the dignity of the assembly has been violated, because I've quoted what's been said, and now I'm quoting what it says to prove that it's not true. "The initiative to launch the negotiation process and conclude an international contract can also be given by other state bodies, economic operators or associations." So, it doesn't say which area, and it says, "through the authorities of the state administration, in which the workaround mainly includes issues governed by an international contract". So, as it says, pigeons can give initiative. (Vučeta Toskovic, from the place: It is not a member 107) So it's not true what was said. I'll get back to you about the amendment. I just pointed this out to a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15026	Don't throw it away, or I'll give you a warning. Please respect the Rules of Procedure. If you don't help me run this assembly, then we'll make a circus out of it. If you think you'll lead better, please sit here. Either you respect me or you act like one, rudely, because I don't know what else to say. According to the amendment, MP Dejan Radenkovic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15027	I am reporting on the amendment and I think that this amendment should be supported and that it should be accepted, the amendment of counterparts Miroljub Stojcic and colleagues, Djordža Milicevic, because it is simply an initiative. I don't see any reason why local self-government can't give the initiative if it's allowed, so that through state administration, I can give initiative, economic operators, associations? I just don't see what fear is if it's just an initiative? It's just amazing that now we're arguing about some initiative and that someone's finding it, I thank some colleagues and some of the parties at support, but sometimes their support isn't sincere because it's a good amendment, but let's make a fight. Even when you support him, then someone won't accept him because you support him. Let me get this straight. We believe that the amendment should be accepted, that it is not a problem at all, because it is an initiative. Let's not go to rights under the international contracts of the Vienna Treaty on Contract Law, where it stands out nicely what the term of the contract is, what it stands for. If I have to, and I'll quote it, it's not a problem. I don't think there's any reason we shouldn't accept this amendment. Give a good explanation that we don't have to accept it because it's an initiative. The initiative does not mean that it must be accepted. Simply, why are we running away from ideas that local self-government is going to put up with? I guess they know best what's good and good for their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15028	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15029	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, the distinguished ladies of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this was on the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs rejected this amendment. Of course, most of the members of the committee who voted in such a way had in mind the position that came from the ministry, i.e. what we've been told on the spot. We're about to discuss here extremely calmly and without any politics. Also on the Committee yesterday, thinking about it, I had in mind this word "work of work", but with careful reading of the text here, the following is determined: "The negotiation and conclusion initiative can be given by state authorities, economic operators or associations through the authorities of the state administration in which the issues governed by the international contract are part of the circle". So you don't need the jurisdiction of the association to be foreign policy. The jurisdiction of the economic operator should not be foreign policy, those who initiate the initiative or any state body. For example, the state authority in charge of sport does not have in its jurisdiction international relations, but will take the initiative through a state body in whose work is the conclusion of international contracts, negotiations, etc. After all this, I don't see the danger of this amendment being accepted. I think an easy solution can be found here, as in many similar cases, that we really bring this thing down far and away from politics, from this room, that the people of the ministry might look at this one more time. I appeal to the ruling majority to consider and accept such an amendment in the voting day, regardless of the formal position of the government that we have here today. I just don't see any damage. I can't say I was anything special for you. The right to tell you, I didn't do this, but when I read the amendment and heard all the arguments and all the arguments that were given here, it seems to me there's no danger. All I am warning is that local self-government should not be marred to international co-operation with other local self-governments in the world, because it is not an area of international contracts. That absolutely has nothing to do with this. So that's what needs to be distinguished, and that thing stays unscathed and it reigns for itself, and here it's about something completely different, and in that sense, I don't think there's any danger of not accepting it. It's possible that until the voting day he'll be busy and some different government position, so it'll be easier.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15030	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Miodrag Djidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15031	The esteemed chairman, the honourable minister, the honourable fellow MPs, will support this amendment for Serbia, and unless the minister changes his opinion a little while ago that he will not accept the amendment, and I see no reason not to do so, because, after the debate of all MPs, it is absolutely evident that most MPs represent this position that this amendment should be accepted. I think the minister should listen to the will of the majority in this House and we don't even have to go to the voting day, but unless the minister accepts it, I repeat we will vote for this amendment, because we think the amendment is very good, and that it absolutely needs to be adopted. The argument was made by my colleagues. I don't have much to add. I would say that local self-government should support them and give them the right to submit an initiative to the state bodies to conclude international contracts, because if they can do so to associations of citizens, sports clubs, the association of fishermen, as it is said here, I see no reason why I can't do that and local self-government, which in any case is a little higher than the citizens' association. So, in voting day, we will support this amendment, but once again I urge the minister to adopt this amendment because all of us here are full of decentralisation mouths and we all declare ourselves to decentralisation and to increase the jurisdiction of local self-government, because we all see that without it there is no better society, there is no progress in Serbia. When something needs to be done, when that decentralisation should be part of some legal text, then we should all deny it, that is when the will to decentralisation is not demonstrated, so it only exists Declaratively, and as you know, the MP group Together for Serbia in terms of its programme will have decentralisation of Serbia, because we believe that Serbia cannot move forward unless we take quick steps to do this and correct it, and to allow a balanced regional development of all parts of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15032	The word has a folk MP Marijan Risticevic, then Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15033	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm afraid there's a little confusion here, that we haven't clearly defined what the agreement is and what the contract is. So, the Law on Local Self-Government, as I understand it, is not forbidden by local self-government to make agreements, even internationally, under certain conditions. But under the Law of Local Self-Government, no provision has been introduced in the works of their powers that they may enter into international contracts. If the initiative is launched, there is order in the law, the initiative is launched, it writes who can launch it, it comes to the competent national authority responsible for the area, it translates the initiative into the proposal. The basis of delegations shall be established and that contract shall then be concluded. So we need to define what the deal is and what the contract is. No one disputes, and the Law on Local Self-Government restricts this law that local self-government can make agreements with relevant territorial units and communities of local self-government units, according to the Law on Local Self-Government. So that's not a question. If they launch an initiative for the contract, then the initiative should eventually become a contract to be approved by this Assembly. It is now the Law on Local Self-Government, passed by the former government, does not allow. There would be a coalition of two laws, and so, as far as I understand it, and I'm not a lawyer, it's about agreements that local self-government has the right to conclude, and contracts if they launch an initiative, that initiative should ultimately result in the conclusion of a contract also being transferred here that we left something out of this law. I'm undermining again, that those who advocate this amendment today, which I would not have had these doubts about the collapsing of the law, would have been very happy to accept, would have even allowed the local communities to do so, but since there is a danger of collapsing two laws for that reason I can't vote. We're being transferred here that we missed it with some intention. I again underline that, according to all the information I received from the Government, this law has been crumbling for four, five years and is proposed in the integral text to this Assembly. Today is the loudest one whose party wrote this law, so if there were any mistakes, if local self-government were left out, they should tell us what the reason why this proposal left out local self-government. I think they did the right thing, given that they had the Law on Local Self-Government, which they also passed, and they didn't want those two laws to go into college. There was also talk of some blame for the law of 1978, SFRY. We haven't exercised power in the past 12 years. It was time for this law to be regulated by law in the past 12 years. It's not done.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15034	Please, Mr. Risticevic, don't do it again. Go back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15035	I'm talking about the amendment as much as they're talking about the amendment. I really don't know why she's allergic to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15036	Don't talk, you're turning off the amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15037	The previous law was valid and signed by Joseph Broz. At least that's when we lived when Broz ruled. Since these began to rule what they had gone, we have failed completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15038	Please, let us bring an end to this amendment. I ask the MPs to give up those who have already participated so far, Stojcic, Cvetićanin and Radenkovic. First, I must give my word to those who have not responded in order. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15039	You see today, an initiative to launch a negotiation process and conclude an international contract, can launch all social organisations and associations of citizens. Today's the day. I'm not sure the state is so threatened today because pigeons or beekeepers can launch an initiative. If that were the case, believe me, they would have asked for an emergency procedure to amend this law much earlier. There's no reason to be afraid. The other thing is, it is obvious that some interfere with an initiative that can be initiated by local self-government to conclude an international contract. It's not about the conclusion of a contract between local self-government and anyone. It is an international contract as a contract concluded by the Republic of Serbia in writing with one or more states or with one or more international organisations, etc. This is defined in Article 2. It's a bill of law. Can good advice to the state benefit or fear good advice? I think that any council can only contribute to the state, to some problem being seen and then that competent authority of the state administration in whose work the issues mainly include, says – okay, super initiative, I go with this initiative to the government, etc. or he says, "I don't think this initiative is right." I don't understand why we're afraid of such an initiative. That it is not a procedural problem, because if amendments are accepted, every applicant of the initiative has the right to respond. If it wasn't for the state's obligation to respond anyway, I would suggest that every single person in the country has a right to a good initiative, just for reasons not to complicate possible states, where the state would be obliged to respond to bad initiatives. That is why I think it is correct that what is in the bill and together with the amendment of Mr Stojcic and Milicevic. They say the initiative can be given by other state authorities, all economic operators. The legitimate local self-government is local self-government congregations without the right to initiative, to what one firm in the territory and local self-government has. Isn't that weird? Let us also allow local self-government, when we have already allowed any economic operator or association to launch the initiative. At least there are legitimate people here.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15040	The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15041	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, who was bitten by a snake, is afraid of a lizard. I hope the SNS won't accept this amendment for many reasons, of which I will name only one. This assembly passed on some powers to the province of Vojvodina, so we saw how they used power and what they did. When it comes to the initiative of local self-government, let's remind ourselves of what some initiative was in Kanjiza, Bosilegrad and such cities, which are bordered on the borders of our country. The initiative may trigger an international factor, if it occurs to them to give the initiative, to stand alone from the Republic of Serbia. That's one of my examples. That's why I said, "Whom the serpent bit, he's afraid and a lizard." We have many other things to justify not accepting this amendment. I don't want to keep talking just because we don't have time for that right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15042	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Srdjan Milivojevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15043	Mr. Chairman, not only should I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Members of the 104th Dignity of the Assembly, but I also advertise the violation of the Constitution of Articles 79, 80 and 81. If the Rules of Procedure is already offended, the Constitution should not be offended. National minorities have the right to express, protect, cultivate, develop public, express their national ethnic, cultural, religious specificities, but let's not mix some things here now, really bring this house down to a very inappropriate debate and bring about some insinuations and threats from the previous political past. That really doesn't deserve the attention of this House. I believe that we here must strengthen the spirit of tolerance and that we all adhere to the Constitution and Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15044	I don't think he's hurt his Rules of Procedure. That's not how I understood the previous speaker at all. He was merely expressing a certain fear regarding the application of this law. So, I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been hurt. The word has the People's Messenger Miroljub Stojcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15045	Dear President-in-Office, honourable ministers, I would first of all like to thank my fellow Members who support the amendment to be incorporated into the law. I call on the promoter to really review his decision in terms of accepting this amendment, because I really don't think that it should disqualify the local communities to be these promoters and those entities that give the initiative to the competent state authority to initiate the procedure. There is no need to mix what local self-government does in terms of making an agreement, fraternizing cities with other cities from other countries, that's one thing. But here we really need to give a chance to local self-government, because there will be a prospect of creating needs for this, given what counterpart Milivojevic was talking about, that already there are Euro-region, where there is a need even for joint investments, for building common infrastructure capacities and facilities. Therefore, I urge you to accept this amendment and to be incorporated into the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15046	The word is Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15047	Thank you. Since my colleagues at the Parliament club did not understand what I was going to say, I was just attached to the argument - the government did not accept the amendment because the co-operation agreements that units of local self-government concluded with relevant territorial communities, units of local self-government of foreign states, according to the Law on Local Self-Government, were not considered international contracts within the meaning of this law. I read "The Sources of the Rights of International Contracts", where the introduction says, when the Vienna Convention of which we are signatories, now some parallel of which I am making, may be wrong, but in favour of this amendment being accepted, and I don't think there's any reason not to accept it, the term "contract" means an international agreement concluded in writing between states and regulated by international law, whether it's contained in one instrument or in two or more instruments interlinked, regardless of its special name. When the Law on Local Self-Government, as counterpart Marijan Risticevic said in Article 13(3), the decision to establish co-operation, i.e. the conclusion of a co-operation agreement with the unit of the local self-government of another state, was made by the Assembly of the local self-government unit, with the agreement of the government. I don't think there's any reason to allow local self-government to launch an initiative without the government accepting or not accepting it. Why would they hold back someone who really has good ideas? I think that's a good basis for us to accept that amendment. I really thank the colleagues who support this purposefully, but I don't know what their intentions are, because as the opposition's growing support arrives, I think there's less chance that the government will accept this amendment. But I don't think we should be looking at these things. I think this is a really good foundation. So that it is not as Mikovic says – please accept this amendment or that we are now performing theatrely, but I really think that we need to think a little bit more and if there really is some explanation that is justified, we will accept it. We won't answer again if there's really some reason why we don't give local self-governments to launch the initiative, and we allow associations, and I don't list any associations, if we join a register of associations that could launch such an initiative, not give local self-government. We can give some general association to some municipality's businessmen, and we won't give it to that municipality. Let's not talk about the tenants' gigs at the markets, Belgrade drinks or the mushroom association, nature lovers, without giving local self-government. Lastly, we might not have been involved in this much to support this amendment by colleagues Stojcic and Milicevic, but I ask you once again to consider it. If there are really reasonable reasons not to accept this, we will no longer participate in any further discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15048	The People's Messenger is Neven the Flowering, and then the Messenger of the People Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15049	Thank you. I feel the need to say something, especially because of the citizens of Serbia watching this transmission. I want to guarantee that by adopting this bill of law, local self-government or local self-government units will not be denied for anything. I feel the need to say a few more things. Dear Mr. Djindjic, esteeming his discussion and estimating his commitment to decentralisation and the greater rights of local self-government, I think this is a very important issue, but please don't solve the issue of decentralisation during the draft law on international contracts. That means we're chasing grandmothers and frogs. That's number one. (President: Please do not conduct a discussion and a replica outside the amendment. I accept the suggestion. Number two, the main question - who can submit an initiative to sign an international contract? Which we've been discussing for half an hour, as if this is the famous fourth American amendment, so we need to free the slaves, that this deserves such a debate. The matter is simple and it says in the bill, please read – an initiative to launch a negotiation process and conclude an international contract can be given by other state bodies, except the Government. We don't think the local self-government unit is a state body, because the state founded a local self-government unit. Can local self-government, through other state authorities, file an initiative? What I finally want to argue is that this proposal for a law of the unit of local self-government will not be denied for anything, they will not be denied any right and will finally be able to participate in international legal activities through other state bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15050	Thank you. The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15051	Thank you, Mr. Chairman and Madam Minister, dear colleagues, for the excess of freedom, there can never be any harm. First of all, the local self-government unit is not a state body. It's not by the Constitution, it's not by the law, it's not by the essence, it's the opposite. This is a political question. The political question - whether municipalities and cities, which make up their congregations, executive bodies, or mayors and presidents of municipalities, and all have been elected in direct elections and have legitimacy because citizens have given them the mandate to deal with what is written in the Constitution and the Law on Local Self-Government or other laws, have the right to address the state when it comes to matters which they consider to be important and beyond the borders of our country. No one can forbid them today. Any municipality and any city in Serbia can open any topic in public that seems to be in the interest of their citizens. This is about a technical matter. That's what a few MPs have been talking about here. The obligation of the competent ministry and the Government to respond shall be established. Do we really have a problem here to establish the government's obligation to respond to the initiative of a city or municipality of Serbia, which is made up of committees elected in the elections, to respect their answers and when the government wants to reject this initiative and when it decides to enter into the procedure for the conclusion of an international contract? This is a question of parliament's position towards self-government, and local self-government and what it stands for together for Serbia -- self-government at the level of the area, the region. Today it is Vojvodina and Belgrade, but this is a serious and significant political issue. I accept that we differ on that issue. We are for cities and municipalities to have this right, to have the government answer to them – is what they consider important in international relations good or not good? Is it a state interest or not a state interest? The government is elected by the Assembly. The congregation is chosen by the people. The municipalities and municipalities of the municipality also choose the people. I do not see that there is any reason to free the government of the obligation to respond to something that cities and municipalities propose to it, and especially what has to be answered when some other entities, which I also respect, and I think it is good that they have the right to submit initiatives, when such an obligation exists to them, unless you are so against self-government, especially local ones, if you think this is dangerous for the development of democracy in Serbia. Together they will vote in favour of Serbia for this amendment and I welcome the applicants. I hope there will be no reason why the opposition supports the amendment, that only because of this is why the ruling majority rejects it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15052	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15053	First of all, I really don't know that there is any single initiative of local self-government and that through the resolution ministries not only did they not get some kind of co-operation but, above all, help that everything they want to do in their local self-government and not do. I've got a million examples of that kind from my vault. I'm not getting into this. This law is not the law of the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection, it's from another ministry, but I can't resist it because I meet with such things every day. There is no single initiative of local self-government, either to this ministry or to foreign affairs that are not responsible by local self-government. What's quite clear here is that this law certainly does not reduce and deny any right of local self-government. I can say the following, it's a question – what if we make a commitment to the government, so the government says we shouldn't conclude a contract between, say, local self-government otherwise? That's my opinion. I don't want to talk about it anymore because it's just my opinion. In any case, the Government and the Assembly Committee themselves have rejected this amendment with a clear explanation. We talked about it so much here. I don't think local self-government is damaged by anything through this law. Indeed nothing, especially having experience in real life with what is called work and with all the initiatives and serious problems they face.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15054	The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15055	Madam Minister, you've just made arguments as to why the amendment should be adopted. For something that is completely natural and normal in life and in practice, I also think it would be completely inappropriate for any ministry or government not to respond to some initiative of local self-government. What's the problem, then, that there's an obligation in the law to do so? Otherwise, the answer is not clear. I think that the government, and probably the Intruder Committee, is doing this in the Assembly, is dealing with the issue of an agreement between local self-government and some of their potential partners abroad. This is about another thing. Why couldn't the town of Novi Sad or the municipality of Bosilegrad or the Shop send an initiative on any issue concerning Serbia's international relations and, of course, an energy contract, which is part of your jurisdiction - agreements in the area of agriculture co-operation, military co-operation agreements, or whatever you want? Why would you limit it? Why would anyone restrict legitimately elected representatives of citizens in a local self-government to send their government an initiative to discuss any of the things and that the government then says – you're right, you're wrong, this is good, this is not good? I don't see any reason, especially that it's given to economic operators, associations and what it's all about here. I don't think the one who made the proposal at the government saw the whole thing. Somehow, by nature, when the government didn't do it, it's not even the majority on the Foreign Affairs Committee. It would be good to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15056	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15057	I don't know, maybe in some previous period, committees were really making decisions. I deeply believe that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has by no means taken a decision by initiative, as this government does neither by itself nor by itself. Secondly, since you said that local self-governments here are limited, excuse me, explain to me - what are these local self-governments limited by anything and what right have they been denied by? They haven't been denied anything that's never existed before, which doesn't exist in practice, as you have, after all, and agreed with me. (Milos Aligrudić, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15058	Right on line, MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15059	The replica is because the Committee on Foreign Affairs has been mentioned and I am obliged to act on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. It is not about any oversight, nor is it about hastyness, but it is about the confidence of the members of the Committee who have received confidence from the representatives of the ministry, who have come to the Committee itself, that this amendment should not be accepted. You know how the board argues. We don't have one committee in the Assembly, we have many. When you hear certain arguments and really don't look closely at what it says here, you get into a situation where you think the ministry's attitude is correct. I didn't do it myself, but I want to justify my colleagues from political parties that they are. What's the problem? There is no need to exhaust any crucial argument in this debate. I really admire the multidisciplinaryities of government members who are able to cover all areas, and also admire government employees who have been writing the law for five years with 30 members. I guess there is a minor sin on us in the Serbian Parliament, which we get this text a very short time before a serious debate and a debate of just an hour and a half on the board, rather than those that take five years to create a text of not-full 12 pages. So if that's any kind of problem, I don't see that that's the problem. Please don't talk to each other that way. An error has been found. The fact is that the Belgrade Fund for Political Extraordinary can submit an initiative to conclude an international contract in any area, that I suppose someone else can, and I must tell you, to draw attention to that my political party, the DSS, has always been a fighter here against any centripetal tendencies. The tendency to separate Serbia. The Constitutional Court has confirmed the grotesque of our proposals for the assessment of the constitutionality of the Duchy of Vojvodina Act, and this same parliament is with another majority... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... I end, before that confirmed the Statute of Vojvodina before it passed the Law of Jurisdiction. That's what we're up against. But let's not look for the devil where he's gone and where it's not about the anti-constitution, and if local self-government is losing something, yes. Look at the current law, compare the rights of socio-political communities, it's actually a translated socio-political community, it would automatically be local.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15060	The word is Srdjan Shin, so Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15061	I would just try to make a modest contribution to this debate and ask one question that might bring us closer together to the answer. The main issue of democracy is the passing of a democratic idea. When we talk about the passing of a democratic idea, then we are talking about the kind of passing democratic idea that the factors and the democracy and the ways in which they are joined and who are delegated certain powers that they can on their behalf for a particular matter, the lawyers probably know better, that jurisdiction and local and real must be defined and that this democratic idea therefore has a certain passivity to certain instances that make certain solutions, i.e. certain decisions. That's where we have to distinguish two things. An old one is local self-government and their congregation executive bodies as someone with a certain democratic capacity and a certain democratic opportunity to participate in the exercise of power based on the Constitution and the system laws that define it. None of these laws define local self-government as someone who has received from citizens in the election process the ability to participate in the process of adopting international contracts. When citizens decided that, when they voted for them, when they were given the authority to participate in the voting system, they were not given the authority to participate in that direction. That's the difference between the association and the national councils of national minorities, which were spoken of by a fellow political party? Whether they should have that possibility and initiative or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15062	Mr. Shane, that's the theoretical question you're discussing right now. This is a concrete amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15063	I'm talking about a concrete amendment, because we need to figure out why it's acceptable. Let me have another sentence. The very fact that these organisations, in their very structure and choice, are talking about the electoral rights of citizens they have as factors of democracy, gives the possibility that this original idea of theirs can come to an instance that articulates them and in a certain way comes to the realization of that idea. I'm talking about the various democratic capacities of different things and the different amounts of democratic opportunities transferred for decision-making, given to citizens, and in this sense we can ask as a demagogue issue – local self-government must be important, safe, and should be important, but what local self-government has room in our system? It has a positive in the Constitution and in order to really come to a solution before we have to find a foothold in it. That's why I think this amendment is acceptable and that in that sense this is the subject of debate when we talk about another law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15064	Thank you for finishing up. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15065	I'm sorry that the government was probably in a tight spot with time because we know when the opinion on the proposed amendments came in and that's why today's session was moved in an hour. They may not have been able to read the amendment well. Perhaps neither member nor amendment, because when we read the explanation of why Mr Stojcic and Mr Milicevic's amendments are rejected - I will read the first sentence - the government does not accept the amendment for the reasons why co-operation agreements concluded with relevant territorial communities and units of local self-government in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government are not considered an international contract within the meaning of this law. This is not about the text of the law or the amendment to agreements that local self-government concludes with anyone. This is where you work to, for example. A local self-government near the Romanian border suggests a state initiative – let's sign a contract with the Romanian state to arrange a waterway to protect ourselves from floods. They saw the problem because the citizens were swimming or having such a problem and they say to the state that they think they need to regulate it, and then the competent ministry says, okay, that's a good initiative, we accept and go towards the government so we can negotiate or say it – it's totally unfounded, you won't swim, you have nothing to worry about, and you don't accept the initiative. If this amendment is not accepted, I think it only confirms the government's stubbornness not to accept the arguments that have been made along with the amendment itself and in this debate so far. Unless we accept that amendment, what remains at the disposal of local self-government? Mr. Stojcic is from Vranj, the state will not accept that local self-government is right. The local self-government in Vranj voted that it was good and asked the firm from its territory or beekeepers' association to go to the state and launch the initiative. Is that crazy? I have to use that expression. Let us enable local self-governments to have the same rights as five people who have established a association on the territory and local self-government. Three can build an association and have the right to initiative, but legitimate local self-government has no right. This isn't about the real AP. This is about local self-government. Don't be afraid.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15066	Thank you. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15067	Before I move on to my amendment, I don't think we've discussed Mr Stojcic's amendment long enough, so I'd like to return to that amendment to give full support to that amendment. The joke aside...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15068	Mrs. Banovic, you weren't kidding, were you?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15069	I don't think we've discussed it long enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15070	I understand that you're talking about your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15071	Now I'm going to move immediately on to my amendment which is otherwise accepted and it's a good thing it's accepted. This amendment refers to an obligation which is clearly defined in the law, that if a certain, or a competent authority or government decides not to accept, for some reason, the initiative of the call for conclusion, or to conduct negotiations or conclude an international contract, that it cannot say so – the initiative rejects the point, but must explain why an initiative is rejected. If the government had been smart and accepted Mr. Stojcic's amendment, let's say, if Zitiste launched an initiative to conclude an international contract to prevent floods, if the government refused, she would have had to explain it, and then she would be in trouble.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15072	The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Foreign Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15073	Unfortunately, this amendment was not accepted. It normally consists of several parts, but they form a whole and refer to the same member, which is a member who speaks about what the proposal is about to conduct negotiations and conclude international contracts, what it is, what it contains, etc. The purpose of this amendment, therefore, I said, consists of several parts, is that, among other things, the assessment of the need for financial means to carry out the contracts and the way they are provided, as well as the clear indication of the sources from which the work of the delegation involved in the negotiations will be financed and in the conclusion or inconclusion. The purpose of this amendment is to make it clear in a transparent manner which sources will fund the work of a delegation which, again I say, will participate in the negotiations and eventually lead to the conclusion of a particular contract. I will admit that, by proposing these amendments, I have looked at the amendments from the countries of the environment, which are written in the language we understand. All these laws contain these provisions. This isn't something we from the DSS wrote. It's in some other laws. It's very unusual that you said no. When you refuse and say you don't want to give a projection of how much financial resources will be needed, from which sources these resources will be provided, then we can think that some things are going to work non-transparently, or that we won't have this review at all to be spent in order to conclude a certain contract and I don't think it's good at all. All ministries, including these delegations, are budget users, and parliament and citizens have the right to know how much money is spent on certain activities.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15074	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Neven the Flowering.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15075	Dear Chairman, I thank you for your word. I think that the first part of this amendment is quite correct and that essentially one language change is required to say, "Assess financial resources" is replaced by the words "evaluations of the necessary financial resources". I think it's okay to lexically change everything that in language can sound good, so that the law itself is readable and better and better in a language sense. As for the second part of this amendment, where words are asked to be added: "as well as from which sources the work of the delegation is financed", yesterday we had a very good and quality discussion on the Committee, where some members of the Committee said that, by definition, the work of the delegation was financed from the state budget. So it is already included that each delegation is a state delegation and is funded by the state. On the other hand, I also appreciate the arguments concerning the danger of someone else funding the work of a delegation on what it is up to and this amendment. However, it does not happen that the work of a state delegation is financed by someone else and I asked an esteemed colleague Aligrudic, who had his argument on this matter, to state one example or case where the work of a delegation was financed from any other means, NGOs, and I respect the concern that state affairs is not involved by someone who is not a state. However, such a case does not exist and so far we have not had the practice of mixing anyone other than a state on these most important state issues, which are still important state issues. I want to repeat again that my first part of this amendment is perfectly fine. All these lexic interventions have always come in handy. If you let me say something about the debate we had on the rights of local self-government and their ability to run for certain initiatives for international contracts, we are primarily here to protect the interests of the state by not depriving anyone's rights. Local self-government has the opportunity to run any initiative for an international contract through the competent state authorities, according to the member. In the finale of my presentation, I would like to say that this is a good bill and that this bill will not deny the rights to local self-government, but it will not give, which is the essence of this amendment, the possibility that anyone other than the state negotiates on state affairs and that anyone other than the state interferes, no matter how well-intentioned, non-governmental organisation or any other organisation or association, in state affairs. That's why I think this law should be supported in this form. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15076	The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15077	Thank you, Mr. Florist, for contributing to the discussion of the amendment. I have to say, the first part isn't even correcting a language error. There is no dropping any letters because the law says "an assessment of the needs of financial resources". So the assessment of the need can be – we estimate that financial resources are needed or we estimate that they are not. I haven't been making any language corrections here. Yeah, I like to do that sometimes, but this is a fundamental amendment. Not an assessment of whether it is necessary, but an assessment of the financial resources needed, or how much funding is needed for... Yeah, if you don't need it, Milosh, come in. So this wasn't a correction, this is the essence. This is an assessment as much as necessary, I personally think, and we all think that if we are honest that there is no work of any delegation or that an international contract has been concluded, etc., without any financial resources being spent, as you say, from the budget. This wasn't the kind, it was the fundamental objection to that member. Then, for the work of the delegation "as well as from which sources the work of the delegation will be financed" you imputed to me that I am prone to conspiracy theories and that I see some kind of danger there. That's not true. First of all, I'm not that kind of person, and I don't have it in me, and this has nothing to do with it. This has to do with who's funding. You say they told you that it is understood that all delegations are financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. If that's the case, then I don't see why they refused, the ministry or the government to say that the budget provides for so much and so much resources to work on. They refuse to carry out an assessment of the necessary financial resources. If it were just the budget, it should be very simple for me. You're saying you're thinking about who might finance it. In Serbia, fortunately or unfortunately, how when we have a lot of agencies, funds that are funded by the money of citizens from some other countries. Let me just mention all UN agencies that have been helping Serbia do some things for years. For example, UNHCR and their large role in helping, even a project that has been funded for two or three years, resulting in the signing of certain contracts, but has also resulted in the Law on Migration Management. To point out our House, the Assembly has entered the Twinning project with the EU, where Twinning is our partner, the one we will work with the most, Greece. Is that right? We'll be there for two years, it's on the promotion of Parliament's co-operation, there may be at least an MP involved, but there are all the congregation services involved, and I think you're all familiar with that programme. So 99% of these activities will be financed by the EU through Greece, which is where we have this tweeting partner. After that co-operation, an initiative, to make or conclude an international agreement on some kind of co-operation may arise. The delegation may consist of members of parliament and the whole activity is thus, even here, indirectly funded by EU money, for the project. So, this amendment is good, only it shows that the bill promoter doesn't really want it to be all so public and that we really know where the money is spent, even in this area.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15078	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15079	I think this amendment is useful, too. It is especially in the part where it is said, from which sources it is financed. So you should say it and define it. I have one more thing to do in this discussion to return to Mr. Cvetićan's discussion about this amendment, since Mr. Cvetićan reiterated that local self-government, local self-government units, has the right to submit an initiative through the authorities of the state administration. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, (President: Mr. Mikovic, just a little bit. We've been through that amendment, and now we're on the next one. That's what Mr. Florist said about this amendment, you didn't warn him... (President: I didn't run the session. )......................................................................................................... So obviously we're still on the subject. If he said so, I can only answer that. So if Mr. Cvetićan, speaking of this amendment, said that the local self-government unit has the right to submit an initiative through the authorities of the state administration, that's not true. That's what Mr. Stojcic suggests, and Mr. Milicevic, it supports a large number of MPs here. I hope that we will all vote in favour of this amendment that the local self-government unit, as Mr. Cvetićanin assumes it should, should have the right to submit the initiative. If the problem is that Mr. Milivojevic is going to vote for that amendment, here, I am going to ask him friendlyly... (President: Mr. Mikovic, second time I warn you. )......................................................................................................... that he does not vote in favour of that amendment, if that amendment is passed... (President: Mr. Mikovic, I have to be louder than you. Please return to the amendment. I believe that the amendment and Mrs. Donke Bankovic are useful and I think all the reasons are for supporting such an amendment. That there may be more amendments, so that, according to the paragraphs, we are one, the other, the third intervention, possible to get more votes for a certain individual indent, but I think that this kind of complete amendment is also useful.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15080	Thank you. Minister Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15081	As far as this amendment is concerned. Far from being multidisciplinary, as someone said, but only two three things. When you talk about sources of funding, it is logical that when the Budget Law, how it is and how it, among other things, states in the light of this amendment, the Budget Law assumes the necessary financial resources. Secondly, when you mentioned this example that you gave, if the financial resources are not needed, then here nicely, in this cost calculation, it will not be asked. That's why there's an evaluation of the necessary funds, not an estimate, because as soon as you say the assessment, you've already said you must need the funds. In this sense, I think I'd say that these are a number of concepts from the economy, the assessment and the assessment. When you estimated, you estimated that you needed financial resources anyway, and when you did, you only said whether or not they needed them, and then, through the cost calculation, if necessary, if you estimated that they should, you'd write how much it is. When we talked about the budget, as one MP already mentioned, that is, the source of funding, other rules in the area of finance, i.e. Budget law assumes how much money is needed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15082	Thank you. Mr. Florist.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15083	Dear Chairman, I thank you for your word. I really wouldn't go into controversy with Mr. Mikovic, nor would I go back to the amendments we talked about and not only talked about, but we talked about one amendment for an hour, as if we were freeing slaves, that famous fourth amendment of America, and it would require such a debate. With all due respect to everyone who participated in the debate, I think we need to work faster and more efficiently. In particular, a respected colleague, Donki Banovic, for what she said about the particular amendment. The question that we are discussing here, in order for the citizens to be able to explain it, is – should this bill indicate from which sources some delegation is financed, which is already state-owned by its definition. So those who can sign an international contract in front of the state of Serbia is a state delegation. It is completely indisputable for each state delegation to be financed by the state of Serbia and to be financed from the budget. It is completely undeniable that there can be no example that the state delegation of the Serbian state would finance anyone else and at the expense of this state. The example you set is not an example in the area of signing an international contract. When an international contract is signed, it is the finalisation of the negotiations that have been conducted, and these negotiations are just run by a state delegation. So, to return to the conclusion and to the main argument, and why would I be inclined to claim that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by proposing this bill in this form and by being reasonable, as far as all amendments are concerned, does not want to hide anything from its citizens. Because of the citizens who are watching this, I guarantee, as someone who participated in the debate on this bill and on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, who spoke about this law in plenary and prepared to talk about it, I guarantee that if this law is adopted, there can be no situation for the state delegation of the Republic of Serbia to finance anyone other than the Republic of Serbia. There cannot be a situation where the state interest of the Republic of Serbia is instructed by anyone, by any means of finance. I would no longer take time to discuss this amendment. Only in the end, as far as what the distinguished minister said, whether it's a grade or an estimate, not getting into tiny lexis differences. It is quite clear that both in one sense and in another is that we should have, in a way, to say modernly – monitoring these financial resources. It is quite clear that this law will make it possible and it is quite clear that this law will not hide anything untransparently, whether or not someone is funding the work of our state delegation negotiating an international contract, or it will be intransparent to the costs themselves, which I think would be unserious, given the situation in which we are as states and societies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15084	Thank you. Srdjan Mikovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15085	I don't see why anyone has a problem with that part – from which sources the work of a delegation is financed. Excess information can't hurt. Is there something secret, something we don't need to know or maybe some delegation is funding someone at a conference or here or there? Let's know that too. It's nice if someone's still paying us, but we need that information, too, so we know. If it's from the budget, it's going to appear to be from the budget, I don't see why it would run away from that kind of information. Secondly, I must say in the replica that no one can blame any of the MPs here, if, in the course of his time, which he has at his disposal by the Rules of Procedure, he makes arguments for and against. If we think it's a good idea, if we think it's a good amendment, why don't we support it? This contributes to the citizens of Serbia, regardless of whether someone in a party whose policy may not agree with 90%, why not support concrete, good solutions that are the subject of debate here? So if Mr. Stojcic and Mr. Milicevic are giving a good amendment, I'm not ashamed to support that amendment, they're the government, we're the opposition. Or, if Donka Banovic proposes to know where the funds come from, we are also opposition parties with different programmes, why not support such a good amendment? I don't see the reason, and I don't see why we resent each other for discussing ourselves in a nice, reasoned way, giving us reasons for and against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15086	Thank you. Mr. Cavitian, we will end up with replicas on this subject. You directly mentioned Mr. Mikovic, which is why I gave him the right to reply, but in order to get back on the subject, please continue our work. The word is Mr. Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15087	I'm reporting as an applicant for the amendment, but I'm going to use the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. I'll refer more to the explanation the Minister gave. So, of course you're not multidisciplinary, none of you are. To make the masks fall, and I reveal the public matter, neither you nor Mr. Selakovic, who was here yesterday, nor the resolute minister, Mr. Mr. Mrkic, can you answer literally for every letter of the text of the law that is before us. You in the government have only objective responsibility in relation to the texts you propose to the National Assembly. That's why we are politically discussing it that way. So, nothing personal. I'm deliberately saying this because of the next lively debate on Article 8, when he's on the agenda. Now about Article 5. So, it is not, Madam Minister, the essence of the first part of the amendment that we are asking that the Government assess the necessary financial resources to replace your text, which is reportedly said to be an evaluation of the necessary financial resources. By the way, yesterday at the Foreign Affairs Committee, I was told by the ministry's professional staff that the reason for not accepting what we really want is to assess the necessary financial resources, and those who wrote you that this is not good, but that it needs an assessment of the needs of financial resources, which implies a broader solution, that a case in which no funds are needed for the work of a negotiating delegation is possible at all. Watch out - for the work of a negotiating delegation! We're not talking about a law that has no financial effects. Here we are not talking about the adoption of laws that do not require financial resources. It's possible to imagine. How is it possible to imagine the work of a delegation in negotiations for the conclusion of a contract and for which no financial resources are needed? That's the question. Before you order coffee or drink, you could listen to me. Now there are only two ways to answer this -- either by silence or by giving me an explicit answer to this question, which I, I admit, I don't know. If you give it to me and convince me, I will sit and remain silent. So, what is this particular example and the specific case that the Foreign Ministry had, where they had a specific delegation for negotiations, where negotiations took part and where no financial resources for the work of that delegation were spent? If you give me the answer to that question, then I admit that in this part of our amendment is pointless, it is human to admit that man is wrong, but I ask you to give me an answer to this very, very specific question – that it is not even this coffee, or the juices that have been brought to you now, that neither has been spent? Just tell me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15088	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15089	It's primarily the execution of the contract, if you've read the whole article. Now I've read the whole article all over again. For example, human rights contracts. Then the contracts that bind us, let's say, to carry out some criminal acts in our legislation, don't ask for expenses. That's why you have the grade you need. So it's not the work of the delegation and that coffee you're talking about, it's the execution of the contract. That's what it says. To read everything, so there wouldn't be any more confusion with anyone. So Section 2 reads: "The proposal for a basis should contain a particularly constitutional basis, an evaluation etc." Then you have here: "Assessing the financial needs of the contract, undermining - the execution of the contract, as well as the way in which they are provided". So it's the execution of the contract, not the work of the delegation that you've just mentioned, and I've also listed it. (Milos Aligrudić, from the place: I accept. All right, thanks.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15090	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15091	Milos said you convinced him. He may at some point have insisted on the delegation itself, but I don't see how the execution of certain contracts doesn't cost much. It's pretty pointless, like when we get a bill once, and now it's common, I guess that this economic crisis, and then in the proposals of different laws, it says, the assessment of the necessary financial resources, and it still says that no financial means are needed for the application of any law. It's just as hard to imagine. But let me go back to this amendment. So, a delegation to conduct the negotiations. Now it's also about the delegation. He's a member of 6 again. Here's what you're proposing - the government determines the basis for negotiating and concluding an international contract, and this is further called the basis of the law, and determines a delegation to conduct negotiations. I propose an amendment that reads: "When establishing the basis for negotiating and concluding an international contract, the government determines the composition of a delegation to conduct negotiations, the amount of costs for its work, as well as the source of funding. That is, this amendment is on track, and a few more such amendments will be, the first intervention that should be made public.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15092	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Milos Aligrudic and Slobodan Samardzic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15093	Article 6(2) states: "The government may authorise the head of the Serbian delegation to sign an international contract made up in accordance with the basics when establishing the basis." We say that this position is okay, that indeed this sentence is something that reflects the needs of this procedure, but we say "after submitting to the government a report on the course of negotiations and the harmonised text of the international treaty". So, I think the government gives authority to the head of the delegation to sign a contract made up of the basics, but that automatically means a complete blank trust to the head of the delegation to sign a contract that probably the head of the delegation estimates is in line with the basics at the time of the signing, which has a blank approval at the very beginning. Maybe we'd be wrong, but we think a little restrictiveness, caution works, it's not a waste here. We say that this is possible, that he will be given the authority to sign the contract when he submits a report to the government on the course of negotiations and agree on the text of the international contract. So the government gives consent to the head of the delegation to sign a contract that was agreed between the negotiating parties and then sign it afterwards. In your variant, you have a lack of caution, and extra trust, and then you give the head of the delegation the possibility that on the basis of the negotiating basis and his personal one, because you can't see whose assessment is here, that an agreement has been reached in accordance with the basics, that he, that moment, and sign the contract. I agree that there may be many different types of contracts, that some contracts are extremely simple in my realisation mechanism, and that this degree of trust is possible, I agree with that, but then we return to our objections from the principled search, when I rightly tell you, and today I'm saying it, and now I'm going to prove to you once again, that you haven't made an international contract nomenclature and adapted the procedure for its conclusion and confirmation in accordance with the types of international contracts, this law doesn't know them. That is why you have the same level of confidence in the conclusion of a contract by the head of the delegation and that it is also a crucial interstate agreement or agreement, such as, say, the next day, perhaps far away, the accession of the EU, or that it is a simple contract in the field of sport, where a simple and simple question can be resolved, which can really be trusted by the head of the delegation to implement the basis. Believe me, this approach is not good. When you make a key error at the beginning, so don't distinguish the contractual nomenclature and adjust the procedures, at least in three directions at least in this contract, then it's natural intervention of the MPs to raise the scale and say, no, you can't generally have this degree of trust in every head of delegation that concludes the contract and interprets whether the basis is affected or not. I know that a member of the law writes – yes. It's up to us to tell you that they can't, that they can't, before they get the report, that they can't, before they prove that the deal is agreed with the other side according to the basics, and that they can't, and that they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15094	Thank you. Minister Mihajlovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15095	Two things. One thing you have in Article 5 is that in the proposal for this basis for negotiating and concluding international contracts there must be a draft contract, it writes. Secondly, after Article 7, you have a second position – if the other party does not accept the views set out basically, therefore, basically for the conduct of the negotiations, or proposes to consider issues which are not taken into account, and basically we have a proposal for a contract, the delegation of the Republic of Serbia will request new positions of the Government and, if necessary, postpone the negotiations. I'd say it's not a lack of trust. Any change in that contract, which is basically, if there is a change, must be found again under the government's opinion. I don't want to talk about the other part, too. We have many type contracts that are almost signed daily, they are completely typical, but, of course, there are others that are being negotiated and they have to come to the government, if there is a change in the draft, which we have in Article 5, and then in the second position of Article 7. I hope I've answered you as much as I can.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15096	Thank you. Milos Aligrudic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15097	Yes, it's okay, you've read Article 7, which says what happens if the other party does not accept the views set out basically during the negotiations. Yes, of course, then it's the consequence of what you've stated. But there's one miniature difference. So, Article 6 deals with the power to sign, and then the question arises logically – who appreciates the relationship of the other negotiator, i.e. The other side, towards us as a negotiating party? The head of the delegation, because the government is not physically present at the meeting. So, who appreciates whether everything is consistent with the basics? The head of the delegation, or delegation, values. It may in certain cases, in accordance with Article 6, have the blancuous authority to sign the contract before the contract is examined and made sure that the delegation has well assessed whether it is in compliance with the basis and the government itself. That's the level of trust I'm talking about. We may be too strict, we may be too strict, but you are too weak in the very structure of the law because you did not distinguish between the different types of international contracts and the relationship of the state to the different types of bargaining.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15098	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Neven the Flowering.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15099	Dear Chairman, I thank you for your word. I don't think this amendment is necessarily bad for colleagues Aligrudic and his colleagues, but I believe it defines something that already implies this bill. So, this amendment is trying to add that a delegation, headed by its chief, should sign only after the government has submitted a report on the course of negotiations and the agreed text of the international contract. Therefore, it does not happen that a serious state delegation going to negotiations on any international contract is acting on its own. It is a practice to consult the government during the negotiations, to receive instructions during the negotiations and to determine whether the negotiations will result in the signing of the contract. I think this amendment actually adds something to it. Imagine a situation that is quite impossible, that any state delegation of the Republic of Serbia, with a head who has the authority of the Republic of Serbia, signed anything without consulting the government, or the base that sent that delegation anywhere. It's not happening. Let me say one more thing. The old rule of law is that laws are better the shorter they are. The old rule of law is that what we can say in ten words, we don't say in fifteen. So the laws will be more functional and readable as short as possible. So, no matter what I think this is a well-intentioned amendment because the concern of the state's interest is always well-intentioned, but I don't think this amendment is necessary because in the very proposal of the law everything this amendment is trying to add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15100	Milos Aligrudic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15101	Replica. Mr. Florist, just a short replica, with no intention of entering the deeper polemic. I'm repeating one more thing again, because we obviously didn't get along well. We don't repeat anything here that's already in the text. I have openly admitted that this amendment has tightened the criteria in relation to the contract signing procedure because, with this amendment, to translate into Serbian, we have raised the need for the government to give the head of delegation the right to sign the contract, provided that the head of the delegation has delivered something that would serve the government to assess compliance with the conditions. I agree that there are those contracts, that was my argument, where that degree of caution is not necessary, I agree. But on the contrary, I believe in those contracts that you and I obviously understood, which are extremely important to the state, that this degree of caution is necessary. I was saying in the context of that, the law doesn't know or distinguish between the types of contract, so it can't adjust the text for a different procedure. If that is the case, then it turns out that one simple and easy procedure can be applied to the most complicated and significant cases for the state. I really admire your well-intentionedness and the desire for state authorities and executives to always make a bona fide and, in any case, work in the interest of the state and that no kind of step will simply take place in this regard. (President: Time. I'm afraid, since I have a higher degree of fear in that sense, it's not always possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15102	Thank you. Neven Florist, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15103	I'm going to be very brief, not wanting to take time away from my colleagues or the citizens who are watching this on their TV screens. You said there were types of contracts and now for some contracts that are more important to the state interest, we need to put in some extra fuse, so that someone doesn't act on their own, and for some contracts that are less important, so to speak, not to say irrelevant, that's not to be done. However, the practice shows that, regardless of the type of contract, whether the contract is of the highest importance for the state, for the Republic of Serbia, or whether it is a harmless contract, both contracts must receive instructions from the government. My argument for this amendment is, by respecting Mr Aligrudic and his argument, I think it's a good thing that we want to discuss this seriously, this is an important area, that practice itself shows that it doesn't matter, so to speak, that any delegation signs anything before it turns the phone and gets instructions from the Government and Central. There's something else I'd like to point out at the end of the speech on this amendment. We have to trust our own country. We other countries, except for this one, we don't. This state may not be perfect, it may be where there are any gaps, perhaps we could live better than we live, but it rarely happens that any delegation, but because the work of these people is working on its own. It's absolutely impossible to sign anything without reporting. In that sense, I don't think the amendment is bad, that we understand each other, I don't think this amendment is unspeakable, but I think this amendment points to something that is already in the bill itself, as I said in my first discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15104	Thank you. Milos Aligrudic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15105	I'll do it even shorter than last time. I believe Mr. Cvetićan's advocate of natural law or the idea that all people are good or the idea that you should have unlimited confidence in the representatives of the state government, by the very fact that they are there. It's really for everyone's admiration. I don't mind, but I'd rather stick to the letters of the Constitution, the law, the elements of the legal order, the elements of the rule of law, the regulated relationships, etc. So when we made principled remarks about the lack of regulation of the law they were very serious, we made good arguments and we're going to give them back at the moment that is coming soon. Therefore, I don't see why everyone here would be in the mood to be the victim of a poor writing of songwriters, and that even here, Mr. Florist, it's not about the government. Here is my deep belief that it's not even about government or politics. So, it's not at all the subject here to discuss whether the foreign ministry under the leadership of the SNS is doing well or not. If someone experiences it this way, believe me, you're absolutely wrong. This law was written by a team who wrote 30 pages of the text of the law for five years. I don't know why there's a need for such apologetics, for getting up every time on my left to justify every single word that's written there, and believe me, there's no reason for that if you just don't want to take the risk of being understood in a way that you wouldn't like.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15106	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15107	Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister and on this amendment, and regarding some previous amendments, are often, and in the context of what Mr Aligrudic said, often by some MPs of the ruling majority qualify for the well-intentioned and malicious amendments, and in the context of the argument for this amendment, he is well-intentioned in the first part, and the second part is like this. We should not grant such qualifications for these amendments whether they come from opposition or from a position. We all love Serbia the same as the patriotism contest. No one submits amendments or tolerates amendments because he is malicious, because he hates someone, especially that he hates the Republic of Serbia. We all want an efficient, good, applicable law, a law that is enforceable in practice, before which all citizens and all institutions are equal. That is why we want the essence of this law to be corrected and that is why all our amendments, whether they are submitted by DS, DSS, LDP or by someone from the ruling majority, are well-intentioned. We don't have that burden that someone from the opposition wants to do something bad, and someone from the position is only doing something good when it comes to themselves. We all wish well to this country and all amendments are well-meaning. I'd like to ask that we stick to it in the course of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15108	Thank you. National MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15109	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would not discourage the amendment promoter from my discussion or encourage the legislator. But since I've been working in the economy for 38 years, if we send a supplier to buy something, he has to buy something with a director or any one who's authorized to negotiate exactly what he's going to buy or anything else. So, the delegation that's leaving, who's leaving without consulting with the government, and not getting instructions that she's going to have to sign something like that. So the delegation and the head of the delegation are authorized to sign something they agreed with the government, can't do it in any way. If he did something of his own initiative, therefore, I don't think this amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15110	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Milos Aligrudić, Donka Banović and Slobodan Samardzic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15111	This amendment has been accepted here, and now I'm less sorry that the previous one isn't, but we have to wait a moment to say it. Here in position 1 stands - a delegation from the Republic of Serbia set out for the conduct of negotiations cannot give up the principles of positions set out in the basics. We said, and why, in principle, put aside the principled attitudes, leave the views set out in general. The word "principal" suggests a complete separation or a large separation from the essence of the negotiations or what is actually the desire of whoever negotiates and contracts the government on behalf of the state. Then it's accepted. This is a halfway solution from the previous amendment that you did not have the courage and that certain MPs from the ruling majority assure me that it is not good because that is what they think, and they read it well and understood it well. It's not at all, I repeat again, anything about SNS. I repeat, it is not a party issue at all, it is a mechanism of working in the ministry by officials who have been working here for years and who for years give their texts to ministers and state secretaries, explaining that this is the brilliant and best possible solution in the world. It's just an objective responsibility of the minister and a slightly bigger secretary of state for what I have in front of us. I'm telling you that this text of the law is as it was prepared, prepared and at a time before the government and that if it hadn't been for the elections, probably the former foreign minister would have sat here with us and discussed an entirely identical bill. Therefore, get rid of these needs, of the unsettled need to break down on a party basis and defend everything that comes to mind because the government has proposed. It's just not like that. So here's the amendment accepted and here's the thing that's a little more relaxed than the total proposals we've made.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15112	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Milos Aligrudić, Donka Banović and Slobodan Samardzic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15113	This is a key amendment. This amendment has practically added to everything that is wrong with this law. By listening to the debate on the principle of the first day, a lot of what the DSS parliamentary group has said about this particular member of the law or about the application of this member of the law. So there are two amendments here. First of all, I'm talking about the amendment that the DSS has filed asking this member to be deleted. I'll give you a very clear, nice explanation why this should be removed from the law. So now we're going to start over to explain it. This law was passed, the current one, which is being amended by this law, was passed in 1978 during the life of Joseph Broz Tito. In that law, and in accordance with Article 25. The Vienna Convention on Contract Law stated that Yugoslavia, then the SFRY, could temporarily apply the international treaty before its entry into force (read: ratifications in the Federal Parliament). That's what stood for. Let us remember that it was a federal state consisting of six federal units, that the federal state had fewer meetings of the federal parliament, a more complicated two-part procedure, etc. The 1972 Vienna Convention on Contract Law, which provides for the possibility, has facilitated the work of signatories to the conventions. When it comes to applying certain bilateral, multilateral agreements that they can temporarily apply them before they pass the internal, complicated certification procedure. Now, at a certain point in time, the Constitutional Court of the SFRY has put this provision out of effect, and that provision in the old law had a text in which it stands - that the contract could be applied temporarily if the committee responsible for the federal parliament were to agree. You then wrote the text by not giving any role to the National Assembly in the event of a temporary application of the agreement, none, but therefore very nicely returned the provision of temporary application to the law by copying it from the old text as if nothing had ever happened. Yes, it's true, we have a new constitution. It is true we have a new Constitutional Court. The truth is that the new Constitutional Court would have to discuss the same thing again. Where did the courage come from to those of your law enforcement officers who write the texts of the law and propose them to our ministers, where did they have the courage to trust that there was such a qualitative difference in this regard between that Constitution and this to make this a constitutional norm? I don't think there's any basis for that. So this is no longer a matter of whether or not the Committee of the National Assembly will discuss or not the provisional application of the law, but of whether it is possible at all. Our view that she is absolutely not possible in our right. Then there is another amendment, and there will be a turn immediately after this, where some supporters of the ruling majority have submitted an initiative to just introduce the role of the National Assembly through the relevant committee before the provisional application. Well, God help, give it better than nothing to prevent a complete disaster. Since we know you're not gonna accept this, we're already seeing it, and I have to say what's right, and I have to say to save the soul, what needs to be done here, actually. And you can do whatever you want. I don't see any single reason for a temporary application in the National Assembly that is able to remove immunity within 24 hours to prosecutors, judges, to meet by emergency procedure, to gather 126 needed to vote. If this is so important, if so important, that the contract must be applied at 12 o’clock, from the time of the signing, so is it difficult to call the National Assembly and confirm such an international contract. Why should we classify ourselves in countries that have a two-camel parliament that is an extremely complicated procedure for the internal right to confirm? It's a backup provision. It is used in the Vienna Convention as an exit strategy. It serves as a door to which you can go out in the event of an internal legal complicated procedure. Data is like a relief, like a relief model. Why do you do that? So can you close the loan agreement the next day, about the loan? To claim that the tranche was offered to you on the same day for withdrawal unconditionally, to withdraw it on the same day and to come to parliament the day after tomorrow to confirm it, and to say that you applied it, simply because it was very urgent. Who's estimating that? The assembly. No, I don't. That's an estimate of the government. The amendment to Dubravka Filipovski will be evaluated by parliament. But you will again evaluate the ruling majority on the phone call to the group heads. There won't be a five-hour debate in parliament. There won't be a pleum in which we'll discuss the proposed regulation. So that's the essence of this whole story. This is your worst place in the whole law. I just don't know how you can defend this attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15114	Thank you. Minister Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15115	Well, let's say that the government will save your soul, in the next amendment, just as MP Dubravka Filipovski has suggested, therefore, the government will be extremely in agreement with the National Assembly's competent committee, which is exactly what you were talking about, so certainly Article 8 of the bill remains, because, among other things, the contract comes into effect when the two sides agree, and where they agree to each other. Very often it happens, that when one side ratifys, and the other side takes more time to ratify it, but the contract certainly temporarily is in effect. That's one thing. It's another thing. By the next law, of course, the opinion of the Committee of the National Assembly must be inserted, and we have accepted it here. One more thing to tell you. When, for example, the draft contract is based on negotiations to go to the government, in that Article 5 we mentioned, etc. Of course, all the other ministries that are also giving opinions, as well as the Legislative Committee, must pass before the government itself, simply add, because I think that's significant. You have this trade agreement with the Russian Federation, we have ratified it, and the Russian Federation has not ratified it, but it applies, as far as I'm aware, but the Russian Federation has not ratified it, only in that sense, and has not entered into force internationally. He did come into force here and we're applying him, but on the international level, he's not, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15116	Milos Aligrudic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15117	Very briefly regarding the very application of the contract and the moment of entry into force. So, to be clear, the contract comes into effect when the contracting parties set it by contract, ad 1. So, let's just drop other stories, as the contract party negotiates, that's how the contract goes into effect and goes into effect and everything else. If we agreed that one party would apply it first, like when you're making a purchase and selling goods, so says the buyer, here I'll pay you the seller's price for the goods today, I'll give you 100,000 of some units, and you'll give me the goods in a month. They responded at two different times to fulfill their obligations and that is possible. It is not disputed and it is not the subject of our controversy, but I am afraid that this defence law actually defends something else, a situation that you do not have in your contract the difference in the time of application itself, and it is relevant whether the other party has ratified the contract if the contract says that the other party will apply it only after one year, and the first one will apply from tomorrow morning, then it is relevant, but if the contract contains a simultaneous obligation, a one-time commitment or nothing stands, then the one-time and simultaneousity implies, learn the Obligation Law that applies to the International Public and Private Law, then you cannot claim that the contract enters into force or that it produces its facts, without fulfilling those conditions in each Member State of the signator of that contract. By internal law, I can't interpret the law of the Netherlands to you, because I don't know it by heart. How do I know what their internal law requires them to carry out their contract and commitment to us, and that I'm going to ask my colleagues from the Foreign Ministry, I'm working to know that they answer me as a MP and give me information about what is necessary for their internal right to happen, and this seems to me to justify a unilateral application of the agreement. The agreement with the EU did not say that we would unilaterally apply it, so we do, but it did not ratify it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15118	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15119	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, for us from the DS, this is the least said scandalous member of the law, because indeed, it is unacceptable for me that the Government of the Republic of Serbia at one point assumes the National Assembly's authority, and decides whether a member of the International Treaty or a complete international contract will start to apply, until it is ratified by the National Assembly, the Constitution of the RS Member of the 99th Jurisdiction of the National Assembly, paragraph 4, says that the National Assembly confirms international agreements when the law provides for the obligation of their confirmation. Now that you have tried to correct in this ill-written or prescribed law, Mrs Filipovski's amendment, this lack, that the committee responsible of the National Assembly, write the reasons of the law, and the law did not write it, and then it was added. I'm sorry there is no foreign minister or minister of justice here, but they're probably waiting for a white smoke from Andric's wedding and the Serbian presidency, but I'm sorry they're not here to have a little talk with them on this subject, because you don't have to convince me that you're right. I see that Serbia is convinced with four billion loans, I like to be assured, to convince me that we are wrong, but I'm not sure you can convince Mr Aligrudic and us from the DS that you are right. It would be fine if the first year of law students sat here, and here, however, MPs DS, DSS, and other parties who did the most responsible jobs in this country, and we know very well what is possible and what is not possible. If we get into a situation where an agreement is applied before it is ratified by the National Assembly, we come into a dangerous situation, one precedent, the government takes over the authority of the National Assembly. What does that mean? Then does the congregation control the government or the government control the congregation? It is unacceptable, especially at a time when we do not know what is being negotiated in Brussels, that you are preparing the ground for the signing of certain contracts that perhaps most of this assembly would not accept. We at that small door, to introduce it, such fraud, do not agree and indeed do not agree to degrade the intelligence of the MPs, to collapse the institutions, to sign something the next day, so that it is reportedly applied for a month, and then the National Assembly will declare itself, and then it may be too late to plead. We want you to go out to the MPs with open cards, to come out clearly with your views, with your policy, with what you are ready to sign, with what you are not ready to sign, not to prepare the ground through legislative activity for the unpleasant surprises that, judging by you, are likely to be. Our suspicions do not stem from our political differences, but from our political experience, because we know how we went in 1999. The Kumanian deal, God forbid we saw it. So we're very careful about this very sensitive question, especially when it's such a sensitive moment, when it comes to some of our burning problems. We're simply not ready to go through this silently, to go over this kind of attitude of the law, to push our head into the sand and let you vote like that, as if nothing was going on, I say, not because we're not asking you, not because we're jealous of you, but because we have an experience from 1999, when we know how you led the country and when we know what problems you've caused by such country leadership. That reminds us of caution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15120	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15121	Let's not talk about who led the country from 2000 to today, but let me say right now that in Article 8, which has the title "temporary application", so I'm not talking about application, but about provisional application, so it's said that the provisional application of the agreement is possible, along with the amendment that we accepted, with the consent of the Committee of the National Assembly. So, the government is doing nothing secret, and the government is taking charge of itself that shouldn't be taken away. I will remind you and I will give you information that in Croatian and Montenegrin legislation, the Government has a provisional application of the agreement without the opinion of the National Assembly at all. So we certainly accepted the amendment to be the opinion of the National Assembly, when we talk about the provisional application of the agreement, and when we have full application of the agreement, of course it is ratification in the Assembly and that is understood.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15122	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15123	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would not like to go back to the Kumanski Agreement, because the political option at the time did not support it, but there are some international agreements that the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic regulated by a regulation about that very Kosovo when it comes to it. That was when you drove the citizens to barricades and promised false support, and then you went on their behalf, negotiated and gave consent to what they disagreed on. Perhaps you have not as a real promoter, but as a formal one, put this member into law to amnesty, because the National Assembly has never seen what someone negotiated in front of the Government of the Republic of Serbia from your parliamentary group, but is regulated by the regulations of the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic. Don't worry about Serbia so much. We saw how worried you were. We have seen not when it comes to fellow MPs, but some who were then in very high office in the executive government that they have far more money from Serbia, so now they have a problem being justified before the competent state authorities and the electoral body. Even if someone was deluded, at least he wasn't ready to steal or attach something to himself, but he just had his own wrong idea. Maybe it was right, we'll see. Time will tell.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15124	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15125	Yeah. Why? Mrs. Mihajlovic, why the temporary entry into force? Let's open the story to the end. For what? Give me an example of a temporary entry into force of the contract. Let's immediately consider if there's an alternative to how effective it is, see what can happen? Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15126	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15127	I'm entitled to two replicas, but I'm going to sublime them through one. So no one can hide the National Assembly behind the National Assembly Committee. The National Assembly in a plenary session with all 250 MPs makes decisions. The board cannot assume the role of the National Assembly. The board numbers 10, 11, 15, up to 25 members and cannot make decisions on behalf of the National Assembly. As we led the country, it was the citizens of Serbia and they saw and felt, because the status of the candidates was not put on their backs and taken somewhere. We showed how we led the country to the citizens. It was they who felt and saw who led the country in 1998, 1999, that who left the country in 2000 -- destroyed materially, with human sacrifices, with refugees, with displaced ones, with those in Kosovo and Metohija you are crying about today and calling out for mercy and mercy, where it was white in the sands of the Domina bunker that no screams from the Cave, Decan, Prizren, Urosevic, and now the same in northern Kosovo and Metohija are being deceived that they would not know what to do for them. Nothing anyone in the DS has ever secretly signed, nor has that secret signature been found on any document that has ever been negotiated. Everything we've done, we've done publicly and transparently. We have notified everything to the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, and then this Parliament. There were no secret steps and no secret policies. If we needed support, we were looking for her. When we didn't get it, when instead of supporting it, we were getting aces on Boris Tadic's head, we weren't mad at you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15128	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15129	Again, it is a matter of provisional application of the agreement until the full application of the agreement. As long as it's temporary, then she'll definitely give her opinion to the board. I also remind you again that the other countries have no opinion of the board, but the governments have the right to have a provisional agreement on their own. An example of this is the Trade Agreement with Russia. I would return to this discussion of yours, whatever it is, of how you led the country. Do I need to remind you that you have left an empty budget, that you have left hungry Serbia, that you have left poor citizens of Serbia, since you have now talked about it? So you led the country that, in the end, Serbian citizens gave you their opinion in the elections by the percentages you made in the parliamentary elections, so today you are in opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15130	Please, Mrs. Mihajlovic, as a representative of the government, we can only talk about the subject. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15131	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, everything and everything in this House I've seen in my life, but I haven't heard this kind of thing before. I really can't understand things. I'm trying, but I don't get it. First, when you boast about the percentages and election results, this is how to tell you – your starting position in the previous elections was 500 meters at 1000 in front of the SNS. On the next we'll be in the same starting position. Then what will be the result? On the same, not you to be behind us because you control all the newspapers, all the TVs, all the media, not that you have the budgets to run the campaign, so we give up the subsidies for the economy, so we cut off the farmers' land subsidies, so we can spend and take pictures besides what we spend. That's how you run the country. I don't remember this parliament discussing a technical agreement signed in Brussels or, say, driving licenses, ID cards, traffic permits, registrations. That's what you discussed there. Your MP group discussed it. Whether he accepted it or not or not in writing, I don't care. When you talk to great forces, the oral word is as heavy as the written word. You know that well. Is that what we're discussing here about Parliament? It's as if there's never been anything like that before, but by the Government of the Republic, you've implemented it. Now you're trying to introduce us to how we're working against the state's interest? I'm sorry, you're gonna have to get up a lot and talk from this pay phone, and then it's gonna be hard for you to get one lie repeated a hundred times to become true. When it comes to you, it must be at least a thousand.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15132	Thank you. Srdjan Milivojevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15133	Thank you, Madam Chairman. As we left the budget, we certainly didn't leave it with a record debt of 120% compared to a gross social product, as this current political elite, as it used to be, left in 2000. It's a 120% budget. Unpaid 27 pensions. Unpaid children's allowances as much as you want. A land destroyed, destroyed, and now someone tells us that you, who ruled the Titanic in 1999, will now be riding a lifeboat. I have no confidence in their economic knowledge, expertise and the possibility of economic recovery. When we talk about agreements that, eventually, someone signed, I see that some here are now cheering that these agreements were to be declared by the National Assembly. Then tell me if you have declared Kosovo a republic, because if the National Assembly discusses agreements between Pristina and Belgrade, the National Assembly, under Article 4. The constitution confirms international contracts, internationally recognised states. Is it someone here calling for the National Assembly to gather and discuss some agreements as international state contracts? Does this mean that you want to recognise Kosovo and Metohija as an independent state? Then go to the polls when you run that race at 1,000 meters and as soon as you start, say, "It's our policy to recognise Kosovo and Metohija." Then we'll discuss it in Parliament. You'll probably have an advantage over us, in your party ballots, because media control today is conducted exclusively by parties through party ballots and tabloids. Then go to the voters and tell them – that's our policy and we'll beat the DS with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15134	Thank you. Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15135	My previous colleague, when he says something like this, must bear in mind that what you did, if the MPs knew, would hardly survive the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, because many DS MPs would vote against the government that led Serbia to recognise Kosovo. Serbia was best placed during the Mirko Cvetkovic government to recognise Kosovo. It's explicit or implicit, anyway. She was on the best track. Don't talk about empty budgets anymore. What's the reason you left an empty budget? What made you do that? What did you owe the citizens? We inherited a 260 billion dinar deficit last year. For the past year, made by the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, in six months, how long it lasted. How many left unpaid farmers? How many states did she remain in debt for vomiting, a tax refund on added value? Are you saying we did those duties? Let's compare the nominal amounts, in euros, in dollars, in stamps, in whatever you want, see who made the major deficit in the budget. Was it 2000 or 30 June 2012? I wish you'd finally let go of that story. I agree that this assembly is the best place to run politics, but one reasoned policy. (President: Time. This is how you look at me more and more like an MP group that had the most MPs here in the last term. Keep it up, you're on a great trip.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15136	Srdjan Milivojevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15137	Thank you, Madam Chairman. When you want to run politics with arguments, and the figures are a very good argument and it is difficult for you to rule alchemy, no matter how much we rule the party's votes, it's hard to ignore those figures. It is impossible to say before these figures. You know, the number is false. It seems to me, in Serbia, that if someone tells you something justified and proves it to you facts, and those facts do not agree with your opinion, so much worse by the facts. I think the gentleman will make an announcement and the facts will arrest you, but there's one thing I need to tell you. For seven months of government work, you've charged every household with 1,400 euros, or four billion. Do I need to remind you that you cried at press conferences, what was the foreign debt? How dramaticly you've been making statements that you're shocked, that you're fascinated, that you're boned, that you're rescinded. Don't let me remind you. Then in just seven months, you've broken through those limits that you've been talking about and you've criticized us for. These are the facts you can only look at in the floor, not at the citizens of Serbia, not at the public's face. These are facts, and if you are so fiercely critical of the previous government, why do you have such a bad opinion about your current coalition partners from the SPS, the URS, the PUPS? Were they that bad? What are you going to do with them in government? Right into the election, race into the presidency, let the black smoke go, say the negotiations have failed and go to the election. These elections run with 500 metres of advantage, with 700 meters, come out and say – we will recognise Kosovo, we will not recognise Kosovo, we have politics neither Europe nor Kosovo. Tell the truth to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15138	I ask the Members of Parliament to return to the agenda. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Neven the Flowering.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15139	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'd like to try to return the discussion to this amendment that is currently in front of us and to say one word of moderation and understanding or more sentences about it. I really don't think it's necessary to dramatize Article 8 of this bill. I think maybe that member can change in the way Mrs. Filipovski did, but I don't think it's good to delete an entire member of the law. I don't think good surgical interventions are according to the law. I don't think if we wiped out an entire member of the law, we'd just get nothing. That's what I want to join another argument. This member of the law we discussed allows for its application to be made possible before a contract enters into force. Col. Milivojevic said the government is taking over the National Assembly's authority because it is bypassing it. Certainly every international contract will come to the National Assembly, which has the opportunity to give a final and final word. That right no one can deny it and this right of this bill does not at last deny it. If we're going to talk about foreign policy, which is regulated by Article 8 and the whole bill, foreign policy must be flexible. Foreign policy must not be cruel. If someone is trying to make foreign policy flexible with one member in one bill, that doesn't mean that they have bad intentions. This does not mean that he has in mind to do something that would be contrary to the state's interest in any sense in issuing a state, or I don't know, damage to its interests in all the negotiations we have. So, in principle, I'm going to talk about it when it comes to Mrs. Dubravka Filipovski's next amendment to change this article of the bill, but not to remove it with one surgical intervention, let's not be radical in the approach. I think this member of the bill is such that it allows for the flexibility of our foreign policy, and yet the responsibility I said in my debate in the tide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15140	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15141	Just for a little while. Foreign policy needs to be flexible. Of course, there should be no rigid frameworks in which foreign policy is conducted, and that is one of the basic principles of foreign policy and policy-making in general, but at times when the framework is very solid, flexible policy is very inflexiblely rejected from the set framework. I absolutely support the theory that there are circumstances when flexible foreign policy delivers much good results, much better results than a rigid foreign policy, but in the historical circumstances of Serbia, such as 1908, 1914 or some earlier years, in 1878, 1872, during the 1908 annexion of the 1908 crisis, during the 1912 pre-Balkan wars, had little room for flexible policy. I am not afraid of Serbian citizens that we are now facing a new war, although there are ready political parties that have created this war in the past years. But I have to tell you, flexible foreign policy is possible in developed democracies, flexible foreign policy is possible in such international circumstances that make it possible and accelerate it. We are in a very tight maneuvering space that does not allow flexible foreign policy. I absolutely support what you've said in some time that will probably be ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15142	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15143	Not to comment on your emotional state, on this bill and back to the bill. There is no existing law and no such member on the provisional application of the agreement has been put in place, but the Vienna Convention has been applied, and the provisional application of the agreement has been as long as you will, right from the time of the previous DS government. So you did it without it being legal. I deeply believe that this was not a bad thing, because we had to apply certain agreements and not wait for ratifications on both sides at the same time, and we have now put it in the law publicly, transparently and transparently, and besides, we have also accepted the amendment to which committee of the National Assembly accepts this interim application agreement and you have to give your opinion. I don't see what the problem is or why you're making such a fuss about that member of the law. Thank you for listening to me. I've always listened to you. Every time I say, I apologize, you're walking, but I'm sure you heard me. So, just from the practice that showed that it was a simple practice, we've now put it into law. Isn't it better to have it in the law than to use only the Vienna Convention and not have it in the law? Of course, I fully agree with everyone that the National Assembly should have a board decision in a temporary sense. So the government can't do it without the board's decision, and when we have official ratification, of course we always do it here in the Assembly, and I guess that's where we all agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15144	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15145	I thank Mr. Cvetićan who contributes that this debate is going seriously and with arguments for and against, and it will be longer and longer, and we will sit more and it is all beautiful and wonderful. Article 8 proposes provisional application, I will agree with the Minister, in terms of content, provisional application until the date of entry into force, which is a step taken before the contract enters into force and may be in the course of negotiations, and in the case of partial signing, signing of certain provisions, signing of the whole agreement before it enters into force, applying parts of their provisions, it does not matter at all what it is. We have received an example of such an agreement that is temporarily applied. This is true what Mrs. Minister said in a single replica, that these provisional application agreements were a handful, but my key question, not to you, don't be called at all, my key question is to the government, first of all, why? No, what's the matter, I know what's wrong, and we can count what's wrong, too, but why? You have a Kumanian agreement that's a de facto agreement on ending hostilities and ceasefire. I understand he couldn't go to the National Assembly first before he stopped shooting. But that brings us back to article 14 of this law and says how those who wrote the text did not take care of the specificity of what our legal system needs, precisely flexibility. There's no provisional application of the agreement. The provision did not exist in the earlier law, currently in force, because the Constitutional Court was liquidated, with the consent of the National Assembly Committee, without the consent of the National Assembly Committee. That's why she didn't exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15146	Thank you. Mr. Florist, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15147	I appreciate the words. It was really not my intention to answer, in order not to repay this debate, but since I was mentioned by Mr Milivojevic and Mr Aligrudic, I would like to say a few words again as some possible answer. As far as foreign policy is concerned, foreign policy should be neither flexible nor inflexible, nor soft, nor hard. She should defend the state's interest, simply put. What means will it defend the state's interest? Sometimes stronger and harder, sometimes softer, it's a question of judgment. But we can't, and we can't argue that foreign policy should be like this or like this. I don't want to go into politicizing, and I don't want this to apply to some of the negotiations that are currently going on. I just want this Article 8, in the context of what Mrs Dubravka Filipovski's reaction, which had one good intervention, to say that this article does not allow the National Assembly to be excluded from a decision on foreign policy. As some contract applies before the entry into force, the final word will be in the National Assembly, i.e. in Article 8 of this bill, I want to speak professionally, there is nothing that would put the state interest at risk, because even if, in some case, a derogation from the guidelines of foreign policy, the National Assembly has the opportunity to give its final word. So this law, this bill of law, specifically this Article 8 does not bypass the National Assembly, and thus cannot be in any way compromised by the state interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15148	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15149	I expected, before Mrs. Dubravka Filipovski submitted an amendment that practically needs to prevent the untruth written in the reasoning of the law or the falsehood written in the law from being removed in some way. In Article 8, there is no envisaged obtaining the consent of the National Assembly's committee, and on page 10, the reasons assure us of paragraph 6, says - Article 8 provides that the Government may, in exceptional cases, after obtaining the consent of the National Assembly's competent committee, authorise... No one apologized for the obvious untruth. Someone would say someone lied to us. I hope it's just a typing slip, so a technical slip, but it would have been worth showing in principle that this was being subdued, and not that we're now coming into a situation that something that's written in one place like this, in another place quite differently, now needs the amendment of the MP to agree. I think it's enough for all of us to see that it's obvious that the question is whether this article 8 is well thought out. Second of all, is there any reason for a temporary application? There's no reason for a temporary application. Can it last this long, that long? What's the matter with me here again in Article 8? This is that the process of confirming this international contract must be initiated within 30 days of the date of its signature. In 30 days. What can be done in 30 days? That it was said within three days, that it was said within eight days. How many scheduled sessions of the Assembly in the short term and how many laws were passed by emergency procedure, which would be an interesting piece of information here to consider how much law by emergency procedure was adopted. Here in the bill we have an option that within 30 days of the date of its signing will be submitted, so the confirmation procedure will be initiated. That's exactly why I'm close to doubting that there's something behind these provisions you shouldn't be hiding. Right now, let's believe it. At this point, if the amendment that Mr Aligrudic has proposed cannot be accepted, let us accept, or we will accept, we will have to accept an amendment that corrects obvious untrueness, that we are not to be lied to, and that's good. I just want to point out one more thing that we're going to have to consider in the next period. It's that in Article 14. Bill numbered what is subject to ratification. So – confirms international agreements, military, political, economical, which create financial commitments for the Republic of Serbia, contracts that require the adoption of new amendments to existing laws, contracts that are deviating from existing legal solutions. There's no human rights treaty. There's no minority rights contract. There's no child rights contract. There aren't all those contracts where it's very important for the National Assembly to ratify them just to legitimize themselves as a democratic society. Also, there are no security, science, culture, education and sports contracts. Let's look at science, culture, education and sports one way or another, but there's no contract in the area of security. We will discuss Mr Stojcic and Mr Milicevic's amendment to these security contracts, because security does not fall under military, political and economic contracts, security is something else. It is stated in the explanation – there is no cooperation planned, but this one, in any case, is not. That is why I think it is necessary to seriously consider that all together, as Mr. Cvetićan entered deeply into the consideration of each amendment, especially the opposition, supporting the bitter proposal of the government. I believe that it should meet legitimate amendments and opposition and positions, in order to allow, to a greater extent, the exercise of the original competences of the National Assembly, in terms of the examination of international contracts and their ratifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15150	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15151	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have waited patiently. So, Article 8 which is complemented by the amendment of Dubravka Filipovski is very clear. We heard everything. We heard this proposal was scandalous. We also heard it was written for five years. I guess we weren't the ruling majority five years ago, four years ago, three years ago, two years ago, a year ago. If the law is scandalous, then even those who claim to be scandalous are involved. This amendment shall only regulate the provisional application of the contract. So far, and we've heard from the minister, it wasn't the case. It was simply a temporary application without it being regulated by law, without any law, under the Vienna Convention. Instead of applying the Vienna Convention, a solution has been found here to follow that provisional application within 30 days. That wasn't the case until now. This was certainly progress. Earlier provisional applications did not come to parliament for confirmation. It went one step further. In order to minimise the executive power due to possible abuses, in order to stop the executive power as much as possible, Mrs Filipovski's amendment provides that, apart from the confirmation within 30 days, a prior consent of the relevant committee is required. So it is not enough guarantee for those who have implemented temporary applications without any legal basis, applying the Vienna Convention. Here, too, I quote the Constitution and Article 99(4). I think we all got the same constitution. At least I hope they're all the same. Article 99(4) – The National Assembly shall confirm international contracts when the law provides for the obligation to confirm them. There are international agreements which are not confirmed, and those which are only legally provided for in the application are confirmed. Even if we adopt, to sign a contract, unless the law provides for its confirmation in the Assembly, that contract is invalid. I'm afraid there are very good lawyers here, that he still has the experience of a lawyer, with a long-standing experience of a lawyer, but basically an intern. When the lawyers mess him up, we can't disintegrate him for three hours. So everything is clearly written in the Constitution. Not every international agreement requires confirmation, as claimed in the Assembly, but some international agreements, which were not previously in the law, which were temporarily applied, are now subject to regulation as provisional application is being applied. That's never happened before. The Vienna Convention is applicable. Our legislator has now taken care of it. The law has been written for five years and most likely that these solutions have merit and former regimes. That way, I don't know where they came from. Mrs. Filipovski, this will be seen from later amendments, has put another obstacle to the government. It has fully established the signing of international contracts, to avoid any abuse. This is where we heard all kinds of complaints. It was said, less or less, that some of my colleagues, especially the "gondolier from Stalac," were talking about everything but the amendment. I really don't know what to say about that. I'd just like to know if we have all the Constitution, or if someone's wearing the Constitution since the burning assembly, along with the chairs they took out by saving them from the fire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15152	Mr. Florist, I don't give you the right to a replica. You can only talk about the amendment. You've wasted your time as an authorised representative, and you've got seven minutes left from the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15153	I thank you for your words, Your Honor, the President. I am deeply convinced that an amendment does not matter whether it is an amendment to the opposition or an amendment to the position. For one amendment, the most important thing is that it is a good amendment and that this amendment corrects the draft law on which the amendment is based. That's the definition. It was not my intention at any time to defend the amendments submitted by the post, or to attack the amendments submitted by the opposition. To the truth, on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I voted in favour of several amendments to the opposition, specifically Mrs Donka Banovic and Mr Milos Aligrudic, who is looking for an explanation if the initiative for an international contract is rejected. And I didn't vote that, which I'm particularly smart, but was voted by the entire committee because that amendment was found to be very useful, similar and good. So, to go back, and very professionally, without entering any policyisation, I am deeply convinced that for one amendment it does not matter whether the opposition or the position, for one amendment it is important to be good, that the law finally turns out to be good and that all of us, and primarily the citizens of Serbia are satisfied with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15154	Thank you. Mr. Mikovic, you can talk about the amendment and spend the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15155	How much time do I have available?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15156	There are 27 minutes left for the MP's group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15157	I'll be there in 27 minutes. In any case, I'm glad Mr. Cvetićan took the view that because of the quality of the amendment, the quality of the amendment will be defined. It makes me happy because the amendments of Mr. Stojcic and Mr. Milicevic will obviously be accepted, and I am pleased to accept certain amendments from Mr. Aligrudic and Mrs. Donka Banovic. Finally, I'm glad we're voting for the amendment whether they're good or not. I'm glad to vote that local self-government units will have the right to launch an initiative... (President: Mr. Mikovic, I warn you to return to the agenda topic. You didn't get the right to a replica. ) In this regard, I am convinced that Mr Aligrudić's amendment to the proposal to delete Article 8, unless, eventually, he receives a sufficient number of votes, means, the absolute majority for this, it is normal for the reserve solution to always exist, that amendment by Mrs Dubravka Filipovski, which is clearly the truth written in the law to be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15158	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was tabled by the Parliament of the People of Dubrovnik Filipovski. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15159	Just to say, even so, that if the Assembly, indeed in the voting day, does not accept the DSS amendment to delete Article 8 which is introduced into our legislation, again directly into our legislation, the provisional application of the law, then at least let this amendment of Dubravka Filipovski, which is certainly less evil than what is written in the text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15160	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ilic, Milos Aligrudic and Slobodan Samardzic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15161	Given that the Government had such a firm stand to reject the amendment to Article 6, and these amendments are directly linked to the amendment to Article 6, it is excessive to give a special explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15162	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was tabled by National MP Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15163	Thank you. One amendment to the opposition that was accepted and Mr. Cvetićan left, too bad he left, but I'm glad it was so on the Committee, that they recognized that the amendment was good and that it should be accepted. It is good because Article 9 is talking about a report on the negotiations, so the article, or the proposal, proposed two positions, where it was assumed that or expected that negotiations would always end successfully, and this amendment introduces a new position 3 where it is said that if negotiations were not successfully completed, the RS delegation will explain in particular the reasons for failure, an explanation that led to the failure of the negotiations and suggest further action that can sometimes be concrete or final. That depends. A man would expect it to be easy to determine what successful negotiations are, and what unsuccessful negotiations are. However, if we listen these days, we watch what happens at these meetings in Brussels, a successful or unsuccessful one depends on what angle you look at. The Democratic Party of Serbia is really hoping that these talks, and I will not call them real negotiations because they are not, it is more of a twisting of hands, pulling out nails, torturing a delegation in Brussels, hopes that the delegation will report that these negotiations have failed and that both this National Assembly and all citizens of Serbia will inform it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15164	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Bojan Djuric, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milos Aligrudic. The government and resolution committee accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15165	I may have had one fundamental remark when it comes to Article 10, which says that a delegation of the RS, or a person authorised to sign an international contract within 30 days of the date of signature, provides the text of a signed international contract with his documentation to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and then the question arises why is such a 30-day deadline? The delegation goes somewhere, makes negotiations, has translators, professional services, consultants, lawyers, and does it take 30 days for that letter, this text, this document travels to the Foreign Minister's Office? I think we need to have a more efficient government that proposes effective laws, that this 30-day deadline is too long. I think I've looked at the LDP amendment that says that the amendment provides for a three-day period. I see another amendment has been accepted. I think it would be good for these deadlines to be as short as possible, because by the time it's 30 days before it reaches the Minister's Office and another 30 days to the National Assembly, that's 60 days. I think Serbia must set these deadlines shorter at the moment it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15166	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milos Aligrudic. The government and resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15167	Very short. This amendment contains a clearer explanation of the draft law and what it should contain. I heard the arguments of the ministry's representatives yesterday on the board. We're still staying on this amendment and we don't think it's burned to get all of this pointed out.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15168	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Miroljub Stojcic and Djordje Milicevic. The government and resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Miroljub Stojcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15169	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, me and my colleague, Djordje Milicevic, have submitted an amendment to Article 14 in the first sentence that, behind words – nature, add words – security, science, culture, education and sports contracts. So in this first part of Article 14, it would read – The National Assembly confirms military, political, economic, and then security, science, culture, education and sports contracts. As I see from the reasoning, the Government has given an interpretation that special international agreements are not concluded in international legal practice in the area of security, certain security issues are governed by international agreements relating to different areas and co-operation. Also, as far as science, culture, education, and sports are concerned, they are not subject to the certification process. These contracts are confirmed by the National Assembly, and pursuant to Article 14(1), if they create financial commitments for the Republic of Serbia, if they require the adoption of new applicable laws or if they are deviated from existing legal solutions. That's what's in Article 14. Therefore, I can be satisfied with the government's response and accept the explanation. I would like this argument to be incorporated into transitional provisions and that it stands somewhere in the law, so there is an interpretation of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15170	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15171	Our assessment in the DSS is that this article 14 is a key issue of the law. If that was a key amendment to Article 8, this member of the 14th is a key problem and to that extent... I am reporting on Mr Stojčić's amendment, commenting on his content and content of article 14. This Article 14 that was acting by amendment, our deep belief is that the amendment cannot act on it. I'm sorry, Mr. Stojcic, you had the best intentions and whatever you wrote, as you wrote, with the best of intentions, it simply won't change the essence of things. He points to the fundamental problem of this law -- the lack of the necessary typeology. I've given you several examples through the debate, and I'm going to give them to you now. The Kuman agreement is practically an agreement to cease fire and end hostilities. Do we really think it's an agreement that doesn't have a political nature? No, it has an explicit political nature. If there was such a law at the time and he was so applied, then we wouldn't be able to stop fire if he didn't come to the Assembly first to confirm himself. Is this the right attitude? Yes, it is. Is it a temporary application of the agreement that is later confirmed? No, because it's never been confirmed. We have an example of a police agreement on co-operation with Eulex, police co-operation, border co-operation with Eulex. This agreement is not only not confirmed in the National Assembly, because according to the assessment of those who signed it then, the previous government, it was not a political nature, it had no properties, no characteristics to confirm it, it was used, there is joy here because of the Vienna Convention and Article 25, the Vienna Convention, but the provision of the law that allowed the contract never to be published. We, as MPs, cannot see what is in that agreement. Not only that, these are the explicit political issues that bring about today, but there are certain questions that it has all the time. This law, ladies and gentlemen, does not distinguish the type of contract in depth, by the number of contracting parties, by complexity, does not even distinguish the minimum procedure when it comes to the relationship with that contract, the conclusion, the signing, and when it comes to these complex circumstances. These two examples that I've cited just speak in favor of not being able to go far, any shooting, war or ceasefire, this law cannot apply to such a thing. I'm not saying he has to write everything down and the law is good if he's well-dressed. I simply say that there are laws in our environment, as is the case with Croatia and other Central European countries that know the classification of contracts, which differ according to their content, the number of Contracting Parties, in the depth of the agreements, the duration, whether one-sided exchanges of obligations and rights are carried out at one point, or whether it is time-consuming, etc. It's not the same relationship with both types of contract. This law is poor for all those provisions. I'm sorry, but I don't think it's possible, with one amendment, as well-intentioned as it may be, to correct the fundamental problem of this law. That's why the DSS won't vote for the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15172	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14th of the amendment was submitted by the MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Donka Banovic and Milos Aligrudic together submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new title and a new member of 19a. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15173	This is about supplementing the law we've proposed. So we think what we've proposed is the right place in this law. Yesterday, the representatives of the government on the board told us that it was not, that the matter we have proposed here is possible in any other law or regulation, although we cannot see any positive regulation or general act to which this is, which I am about to say, a place except in this law. So it's about joining military alliances. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has made its decision in time on Serbia's military neutrality, which is not absolute, it is relative and in that sense, predicting that any change in that decision taken by the Assembly cannot be determined in parliament, at the government, elsewhere, but in the referendum process. Any accession to the military alliance is the conclusion of an international contract. It's access to a contract. It requires a certain procedure. The decision of the National Assembly is more general than any law, and this law deals with the procedure and title that we have given – the implementation of the National Assembly decision, so that one law can implement the provision of another law, especially when it comes to the rules of procedure. How to reach a decision, how to reach the conclusion of a contract in this area? This is not about the deviation from matter, but only about the clarification of how a certain procedure occurs and how it is established. It's a very simple thing. We suggested that when someone comes to mind, here in particular the Government, initiate a procedure or that an initiative for Serbia's accession to any existing military alliance, a referendum must be called first. This is the basic prerequisite for any further step, including the negotiations themselves. If you look at the good amendment, you see that it consists of these continents. Your remarks that you made, where you said the law was not the subject of the National Assembly's decision, so we know that law is not the subject of the National Assembly's decision on military neutrality, but it is the subject of this law to regulate how to negotiate, conclude, confirm and execute international contracts. Joining the military alliance, as a specific type of contract, is the subject of this law. It's less important what title we gave the member, it's more important. If there was a well-meaning, you would suggest, so you would ask the Foreign Affairs Committee to amend this amendment or to give its amendment with a similar content, to specify the matter, but you did not ask for it. We think we've hit the target in every way. Who else will if they don't want the National Assembly to determine the procedure of a possible referendum? What other law can provide for a precise advance for certain types of agreement if the Law on the conclusion of international contracts and the execution of international contracts does not?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15174	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Foreign Affairs tabled an amendment to Article 20. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15175	This time I appear as president of the Foreign Affairs Committee. Therefore, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, together with a discussion with the representatives of the Ministry yesterday at the Committee on Foreign Affairs, established this amendment on Article 20. Through the conversation, and given the different performances in the tide, in the plenary debate, when we had the law in principle, we came to the conclusion that it was a 20th rather anachron and that it should be amended. I can express my satisfaction that the government has reached that point of view and that we have reached an agreement that we have practically liquidated so-called. secret agreements. I gave an example of a police agreement on border co-operation with Eulex as an example of a secret agreement. You still have a lot of secret agreements we don't know about because they're secret, they're not published anywhere. This law will now, by this provision, liquidate the possibility of classified agreements. That's what was important and that's what we found understanding and absolute consent here in parliament. If that's what happened, I can't help but say I'm happy about it. Among other things, it was at least 25%, if you can say that at all, of all the total objections you had on this bill. So that's something you should definitely appreciate as a positive step. I think this amendment and MPs on the tide, in voting day, should be unanimously accepted, because this is really about repairs that are not small, but that are essential in this segment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15176	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Minister Mihajlović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15177	Procedurally, let me just say, given that the government has not given its opinion, that we accept this anyway, after the Committee has accepted, that there is no confusion.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15178	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Dubravka Filipovski submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banović and Slobodan Samardzic submitted to the 21st amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15179	Yes, I understood the reason why this amendment is not accepted, that contract copies are kept in all relevant ministries in their archives from the time of signing, or from the entry into force of international contracts. The problem is technical nature and the problem is the nature of contract law practice. However, we will certainly not withdraw this amendment because of this, but we will leave it formally in the procedure, simply because we want to point out possible solutions in the future and possible legislative solutions in the near future, if the government is willing to do so and to make a different regulation that at least certified copies of the contracts in the archives, which are valid and such marked, would be kept by the relevant ministries. We think it'll do a lot of good to search and react at all, when it comes to the case of archiving international contracts. We certainly remain on our amendment, regardless of the government's position.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15180	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Slobodan Samardzic and Milos Aligrudic together submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new title and a new member of 23a. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15181	So, like this, let me mention once again how much time I have left, this story, I think after this, we have no reason to report anymore. So here we have proposed a new principle, that's the principle of reciprocity, and above all, the reciprocity of carrying out contractual obligations. One thing that got in my eye, which is why this amendment was rejected, is that we can't force the parties to reciprocity and at the same time. I agree, it's not the aim of the principle, it's not the principle that we should say in advance what is allowed and what cannot be agreed upon. You have also seen in my previous statements that I am fully in the view that it is possible for the two contractual forces to contract intermittent fulfillment of obligations, different types of obligations and different modes of fulfillment of these obligations. That's not the problem. This is about confirmed international contracts, first of all from the aspect of domestic legislation. I said we can't go into validation or outreach modes in foreign legislation, and we with these states, where we don't get into these modes and where these mods aren't identical to our law, we make international contracts. It is not acceptable for us to, if it is not specifically agreed, and you know that every provision and principle in the law has a subsidiary relationship to the contractual provision. The contract is a party law, if something is not agreed on in the contract, then a legal provision is applied. This is a subsidiary principle, like any provision in this law. We can't force the contractors to interact, if they won't. Then it's a political issue in the state. But we can stress the principle, that we would not have happened if we had contracts that are mutual in principle, are simultaneous and await the fulfillment of both sides, and one of these parties, as said earlier in the debate, temporarily applies them in full faith and full scope and full power, although the other side has no intention of doing so, and that is not an integral part of the agreement at all. You know very well what I'm talking about. I'm talking about a unilateral application of the SAA, because it's the best proof of how much damage a country has, one economy can have from such non-domestic and perverse behavior. If you don't have any, even if you have a legal principle dam for such treatment, then it will happen as a regular thing, not only in the case of the SAA, which, in fact, caused damage to the Serbian economy, damaged our customs inflows, caused total damage of hundreds of millions of euros, but we will also have such cases from other areas. All right, let's get the unequal application contracts, let the parties make an agreement that they will not apply their regulations at the same time, or their contracts, but we can't say that we will apply the contract unless the other party has given the contract the legal power to enter into force. The other party in this particular case, the EU, did not allow the Stabilisation and Association Treaty to enter into force. He didn't come into effect, it's not about when anyone has agreed on their obligation, who's going first, who's going to go first, who else, but we have, on the one hand, a ratified contract, on the other hand, an unwarranted contract, we're applying ours regardless of their ratification or non-ratification, and when they do, as they will, as they will, and what comes to their mind, which is not agreed at all. We can't let that happen. This is one state that has both economic and political dignity cannot afford. There must be some, at least a principled defense of something like that. Whoever wants to apply a unilateral agreement, then let him allow himself to propose such a thing in the context of negotiations, let him do something like that to the government, let the journalists come to that government's session when they decide and release in all the newspapers what we intend to do, and then let them choose to do and let them take political responsibility for it, rather than – let us go to the EU, we make a major achievement, and at the moment when recognised, declares one-sided independence of Kosovo and most of the countries, the EU member does so, enters into an arrangement that is politically harmful from that aspect, economically harmful from another aspect, because it is one-sided application and nowhere in that contract you have any clause on an infinite one-sided application, before the entry into force of that contract by the other party. I'm sorry, I'm not asking for much. I'm looking for this country, on behalf of the citizens, quite a bit. If it can't be accepted here, I really don't know what we're talking about, because we don't understand each other at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15182	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr Vladimir Ilic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Milos Aligrudić, Donka Banović and Slobodan Samardzic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15183	The government should notify the National Assembly at least twice a year of work in the field of foreign affairs, which is the foreign ministry must notify the government twice a year, to submit a report. I don't see why reports on the implementation of international obligations, at least those confirmed by the National Assembly, would not be submitted twice a year, but well, you have the right to accept everything and not accept it. We don't think this is a burden on the law at all, but it's something that helps establish a stronger and stronger connection between the executive and the legislative one.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15184	Thank you. MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15185	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, two amendments have been submitted to this member of the law. Both amendments have a control function and strengthen the democratic capacity of this country and strengthen the control of the legislative authority. I must tell you that the amendment proposed by the DSS is a very good amendment and I really don't see why we can't get a double annual report on the implementation of the international obligations that the Republic of Serbia has accepted. On the other hand, my colleague, Judita Popovic, has given another amendment to the same member, who says the MP has the right to request a notice from the National Assembly on the execution of international contracts confirmed by the National Assembly. It also strengthens the control function of this parliament, strengthens the democratic capacity and potential of our society and creates an institutional framework for parliament to control the government. This second amendment is possible in the form of a parliamentary issue, but still has a binding character. This first amendment proposed by the DSS certainly has an imperative binding character. So the government would be bound by that amendment. Of course, the Foreign Ministry is handing over certain reports of its work when the time comes, but it is good to have a report on the fulfillment of our international contracts, especially when it comes to some of the credit arrangements confirmed by this government. Because sometimes it happens that some credit arrangement is made and the funds are not used, that interest and penalty are paid on the basis of it alone, so it would be good if we knew the person responsible for it through the control mechanism. I thank you for your cooperation, since we no longer have the amendment. I think both amendments are good, but it should be adopted by the DSS amendment, because I think it makes the government more obliged to declare international agreements. I say, this amendment has a binding character when it comes to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, while at the same time strengthening the potential of our work and strengthening the control function of this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15186	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15187	For the end, let me just say one more thing. I hope that this debate has managed to convince some of the ruling majority MPs that certain amendments that have been submitted today are meaningful, resonative. I hope that the government will also see that by the day of voting, although in a formal sense, in a procedural sense, I no longer have any formal communications in this respect, but informal ones can be. I think most of these amendments are realistic and fundamentally acceptable to improve this law. I don't think this law is good for the essential reasons I've already mentioned and that it will soon have to come to a time when it will be replaced by another, better and more content law on the conclusion and execution of international contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-05-0.u15188	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Bojan Djuric, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Dubravka Filipovski submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We'll be working on Monday, April 8th, at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
