ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21444	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 84 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Radojko Obradovic and Dejan Rajcic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the motions of Nikola Selakovic, Minister of Justice and State Administration, Aleksandr Stoiljkovski, the election member of the Supreme Council of the Judges and Zorica Stojsic and Daniela Sidelic, election members of the State Council, I have also called on the members of the National Prosecutor to attend Dr Daniel Nikolic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration, Mr Milisav Cogurić, Assistant Minister of Justice and State Administration Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice and State Administration and Zlatko Petrovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration. We continue the joint principle and uniform search on the proposals referred to in points 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda. The next registered speaker in the order of speakers is MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21445	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the motions, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, this is the third day to talk about a united debate of these four points of the agenda, which also points to the importance of the proposals and MPs gave to these topics, both the draft law on infringements and the appointment decisions, and that they have carefully considered, made amendments and put forth effort and analysis and in principle, and we will consider the amendments later and later when the debate comes up in detail. As far as the draft law on violations is concerned, the first thing I have to say is that the satisfaction of my parliamentary group, which is seen from this bill, is that there is continuity in judicial reform, which has been designed since 2008, 2009 and 2010, and which has begun to be implemented. All those big attacks on judicial reform that we've heard in the last year can only be characterized as colored by political and party passions, because the facts support that although the reform has had some shortcomings, it is essentially well designed and is still being implemented in the same direction. As evidence of this, I can just state from the Bill of Infractions that the status of courts for violations and the status of judges for violations has been maintained, and we know that by the time the law was passed in 2008, which began to apply in 2010, the courts for violations were the authorities of the administration and the judges for offences were employed by the state authorities of the administration. By obtaining the status of courts and obtaining the status of judges who judge for violations, this has been raised to a higher level than this matter deserves, and that status has been detained in this bill as well. Another fact that points to continuity is that this bill began to work as a working group that was formed in the previous meeting and which continued to work on the formation of this government and this one called the Assembly and ended this draft law with minor changes in relation to not the previous text. In principle, and in principle, our parliamentary group has assessed, and I, as a lawyer, that this bill, is quite good. We have had objections to individual members and solutions, and in this regard we have tabled amendments. I hope that the promoter will have a hearing for the amendments, that he will adopt them, install them in the text, and thus significantly improve it. That's what we'll discuss when there's a debate in detail. As far as the law itself is concerned, what is a newspaper is the introduction of a warrant as a way to collect fines and is the introduction of alternative sanctions. The main thing we've had our biggest objections to is trial and imprisonment proceedings for minors. That's what we'll talk about when we talk about the amendments we put into that part. That's, as far as the law on violations is concerned, and I wouldn't hold back anymore, because my colleagues before me have talked a lot about it. I'd like to say one more thing about the motion for a decision, about the appointment of judges who are first elected for judicial duty. First, I must say that I am pleased that the Institute of the Judicial Academy, which was introduced in the previous term, has lived and is doing what it is doing and has found its full application in practice, because we have seen in other countries that have previously introduced this institute, that it significantly improves the quality of the experts entering the judiciary. However, I have objections as to how this law is implemented. I also made all the remarks to the Committee of Justice and I got an answer that disagrees with the answer given in the light of the decision, and so I'm going to talk about it a little bit. In addition, as I say, I am pleased that the Judicial Academy is functioning and that this law is being applied, there has been a problem in making this decision, because the member and the Law on the Judicial Academy, which regulates the choice of judges who are first elected to the judge's office, is not in agreement with a member of the Law on Judges that regulates the way judges are elected. In the course of this election, I must first of all say that the ad was called for the election of 15 judges. However, the VSS has proposed a selection of 16 judges. In the Law and on the Judicial Academy and the Law on Judges, it is not explicitly forbidden to accept any more than is provided for by advertising, but I do not think that this is the correct interpretation and that this is contrary to legal practice with us and that it creates legal uncertainty, because in no other institution or firm you can call an ad for three or five, and you can receive seven or eight candidates on that ad. I think first of all he had to respect the number for which the ad was called, so if he had to repeat the ad. On the occasion of this ad, we were also contacted by the Association of Judges and Prosecutors of Serbia. The facts they state, I take as correct, because if someone puts their signature and seal, they probably guarantee it's correct. In fact, they point out exactly what I said, and the way the judges were elected was not in line with one law or another. My personal opinion that the Ministry should have launched the initiative, as well as the High Council of the Judiciary, that these two laws should have been agreed before the ad was called, because in this open letter from the Association of Judges and Prosecutors of Serbia, we have seen this from the Decision proposal, that 14 candidates are received on the basis of their completion of training at the Judicial Academy, and two on the basis of their points of credit. In their letter, they say the score was made on the basis of a decision to set criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, skills and dignity for the selection of judges and presidents, which was adopted in 2009. My view is that if the decision was now used to score candidates who did not finish the Judicial Academy, that decision should first be brought into line with the Law on the Judicial Academy and provided for as a criterion that brings up a number of points and then all candidates would be in an even position at the score. What I would like to say is, for example, in the Law on Judges in Article 49, in Article 2... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... it says -the data and opinion are obtained from the authorities and organisations in which the candidate worked in the legal profession, and for the candidates coming from the courts, it is mandatory to obtain the opinion of the sittings of all the judges of the court from which the candidate originates, as well as the opinion of the meetings of all the other directly senior courts. I have knowledge that for some candidates, a session of all the judges of the basic court and of the senior court, they have not given an opinion, on the contrary, that they have given their opinion to some other candidates from the same court, who have not passed. That puts the entire candidate-pointing system at risk... (President: I must warn you once again that time is up. Please, just a sentence, finish it. I'm done. I'm just asking once again that the proposer of reviewing this list and that it does not lead to confusion, these are all lawyers, that it is necessary to use the same criteria during the election, so that there is no discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21446	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21447	Dear President, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, here's the third day we've been discussing the proposed agenda points. Of course, most of that debate took away our review of the proposed law on violations. I just want to give my compliments to the work of this ministry of justice for a whole year, in an effort to round up the reform of the judiciary that has been started and to do it in a quality way. That's also out of the debate we've been having these days. We have received as a state a considerable number of compliments for the work of the Ministry, which does not only involve hyperactivity in the most proposed laws in our home. It is before us, here we are now ending, after me there are still a few MPs as speakers, a bill on violations that contains indeed extensive changes in as many as 220 members. I'm glad the Ministry didn't go to changes and additions because of this great scope, but that it went to a new bill, as it was done in the countries of our environment. On the Justice Committee, we heard an example of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This law is important, here to give an example, it has not been so long since I took the administrative procedure and when I received the question for a little higher assessment – the infringement procedure as a special administrative procedure, I took it to Professor Kovacevic, whose textbook it was, and I can see how much time it took to simply get the infringement procedure out of the sphere of administration, and I have now circled and solved the important, controversial question, to say, simply the legal controversy in our legal system. So it was in the countries of our region, because the answer to the question why is it, lies in that we were all part of the same legal system, the same legal school. The need to pass such a large law is indeed many. I'd say it's one of the most important, large numbers of out-of-date items, they say tens of thousands a year. We can look for causes in that. Of course, one is the obstruction of a party that is fully regulated and permitted by law, and we can also look back at how the judges work and we can look for that answer to the question why we have so many unsolved cases. Unsolved cases certainly give an overall very ugly picture of Serbia's judiciary and these modern effective solutions that we have in this bill can significantly improve all of this. So Serbia certainly needs a modern, efficient, economical, rational procedure. This law has received positive marks from the profession, received positive assessments from European factors, from USAID, as a carrier and assistant in this project, and many others. The working group was done by people, as we say – people from practice, but they were mostly judges, it's one side of a misdemeanor procedure. We have tried to balance the Justice Committee, the Ministry's representatives know that they are 100% represented by all parties, the people of the profession, but also the lawyers, and I hope that at 12.00 hours, when we have the Justice Committee, all these numerous amendments, there are over a hundred, there will be detailed consideration and there will be space and that the Proposer, as well as the parent board, will adopt individual amendments that make sense, which improve the simple proposal of this law, and nothing will be disputed. So, the papers are numerous, I don't need to present them specifically. Obsolete, I'd single out as one of the controversial moments here in the discussion. Is it necessary to be duplicated forever? Delivery, as one of the biggest problems, we all know that from practice, legal responsibility, parental responsibility, etc., were all here in the debate of controversy, which we will discuss further. I've only been noticed, and what I really think is positive, working in the public interest, as an alternative to sanctions, is an important newspaper, because conditions are being created to get a wider application. In some of the bulletins of court practice, I have seen that no punishment has been imposed since 2010, as an alternative sanction, that it is work in the public interest. This work is certainly useful for the state, but it is also useful for the perpetrators, because sentenceing prisons are always negative. They have negative effects for the perpetrators of the crime. The convict is definitely marked in his environment, convicted, a criminal, separate from his family, aborting his education, losing his job. In prisons, we all know there's a criminal infection, and they often become returnees. The benefits are very useful and numerous and are more difficult to develop from a responsible relationship condemned to society. According to the consequences of his own proceedings, the convicted does not go to prison, deals with a business that is beneficial to the social community and is more likely to rehabilitate. I'm convinced that any local community would prefer, here's to give an example of public order and peace violations or harms to the local community by drawing up those ugly inscriptions on buildings, that they're condemned to alternative sanctions and being in some anti-graffite units, so let's call them, where they would contribute to the community and figure out what kind of procedure they've done. Since there's still a lot of colleagues who signed up behind me, I have limited time, this is what I'd end up with. Of course, by adopting us, we get a modern and efficient law. In particular, we'll talk after the Justice Committee. The SNS parliamentary group will support the bill's election day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21448	Thank you. The People's Messenger Paul Markov has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21449	Dear President, ministers, fellow MPs, another law from the Ministry of Justice comes on the agenda these days, and that's the law in violations. It should be said immediately that the work on this law was started in December 2011 and that, for reasons of consistency, on the proposal of the new composition of the Ministry of Justice, a public debate programme on the working version of the Law on Violations was already set in 2012. The result of the public debate is today's draft law on infringements, after each proposal, suggestion and objection has been previously considered, with a large number of them being respected and included in the final version of the law, thus showing the course of today's ministry, i.e. the Government that most legal proposals will encourage and accept, especially those good projects that are in the general interest, wherever they come from and when they come from. As far as we were informed, the beginning of lawmaking was a prejudicial task was to make up the working text of amendments and amendments to the law, which would ensure the presence of the accused in the process, then the execution of judicial decisions and the collection of fines, i.e. the need to make the infringement procedure simpler and fairer for the citizens. Therefore, the original idea was to amend and supplement the existing Law on Violations, which was adopted on 21 November 2005 and which was to be applied from 1 January 2007, but only after four years in addition to the 2008 and 2009 additions. In the meantime, due to the vastness of the amendments and the methodology of the proceedings, that is to say, more than half of the members of the basic text have been amended and amended and decided to approach the creation of a new law on infringements, and as the basis for their work, the working group had earlier proposals, proposals for amending the existing law by the Commission of the Higher Violent Court, as well as proposals for a large number of criminal courts and bodies authorised to initiate the infringement procedure. Finally, the task force adopted a new legal solution. New institutes have been introduced, which have received their confirmation through the achievement of a series of good results in most European countries. First of all, to note that the law regulated the resolution of the case in an economic and efficient way, which has so far been a major problem for the criminal judiciary. The correct conclusion has been made that the infringement procedure is unable to achieve in full capacity the objective for which it has been established, as a large number of cases appear in front of the authorities that are increasing year by year and several tens of thousands of infringement cases become obsolete annually. The Supreme Court's report gave very worrying data, which left 48% of the cases unresolved in 2011. Such a large number of pending cases, despite relatively successful work on newly arrived cases, create huge problems both for the state, for the criminal judiciary and for the citizens. All of this should include more than a low percentage of successful collection of fines ranging between 15% and 30% in major cities, all reflecting on the aforementioned efficiency of the work of courts and the negative economic impact on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. In relation to the existing law, the following important areas are regulated: work in the public interest, whose precise terms and conditions are created for this sanction to be applied as widely as possible, thus improving the overall benefit of the perpetrators and of the State; criminal liability of the legal persons, thereby preventing the practice of legal persons from avoiding criminal liability or obligation to pay penalties through names in their status; transfer of the burden of proof to the applicant of a request to initiate an infringement procedure, by means of a provision that the court carries out evidence on a proposal for a party, and the party is obliged to obtain evidence whose implementation is proposed. This implies that the party has an obligation, if it proposes a hearing of individual witnesses, to ensure their presence at the hearing itself. There are exceptional cases where the court, under official duty, obtains evidence for the benefit of the defendant, if he is unable to do so himself or it is justified for the reasons of the integrity of the conduct of the proceedings, and all in order to protect the fundamental right of equality against the court and to protect the prejudication of innocence. The introduction of such a rule, that the party is obliged to obtain evidence for which it has proposed, significantly improves the procedural discipline of the parties, given that this is in the doubt of the interests of the parties and their claims. As we have heard these days, failed delivery is one of the huge problems of the infringement procedure and therefore special attention has been given to delivery provisions with the aim of making more detailed arrangements, and in order to minimise the possibility of abuse, which is most often seen in avoiding reception and delaying proceedings, i.e. avoiding criminal liability. Specially indicated are the types of delivery - at home addresses, at work, until delivery to the absent person. This proposal will deliver letters by mail or other service authorised for delivery, introducing competition by mail, and thereby seriously working on delivery performance, although it is not necessary to interfere with the fact that the most efficient way of delivery is through court suppliers. Also, a new way of delivery is introduced, and that is by electronic means, if technical conditions exist. In addition to the failed delivery, the mandatory collection procedure is also a huge problem for the criminal court, and this proposal strengthens jurisdiction and extends responsibilities to collect fines. So far, the practice of misdemeanor courts suggests that the payment of fines is mainly carried out under the threat of execution of prison sentences, and after a procedure has been carried out to replace unpaid fines with prison sentences. This way of working too often leads to an act of limitations in the execution of fines, and when it succeeds in the collection of fines, the penaltyd costs of the proceedings remain not charged and thus fall on the court's burden, for the reasons that the costs cannot be replaced by a prison sentence. All this leads to the fact that the replacement of fines has become a regular means of forced collection, without more serious attempts at actual forced collection. It should not be forgotten that, in times of increasing material position for Serbian citizens, many are opting to support prison sentences instead of paying fines, which is increasing the cost of the state rather than increasing real income. The provisions of this proposal for a law after the expiry of the time limit for voluntary payment shall give the court a decision on the enforcement in which it determines how the execution of an unpaid fine will be carried out, or the court shall be given the option to choose, in any case, to decide, taking into account all circumstances, whether the unpaid fine will be charged by force or replaced by a prison sentence or by public interest. The brand-new institute introduced by this law is a violation order, which has found broad and successful application in laws in neighbouring EU countries, in which the process is simplified in order to facilitate minor violations. The perpetrators of the offence are given the opportunity to issue orders to make significant savings in the event of payment of half of the fine imposed within the time limit for voluntary payment, all contributing to the increase in voluntary payment of fines, thereby increasing total revenue for the budget. It is necessary to mention the legal establishment of two unique registers, such as the electronic database of defendants, executions, criminal sanctions, because so far we have not had a more precise and unique record. In addition to these areas, I would like to highlight individual members of the Law on Violences, so Article 22. The law regulates the institutes of real and legal delusions in accordance with criminal law, so that irrevocably real and legal delusions form the basis for excluding criminal liability. Article 28 provides for the possibility of punishing a legal successor of a legal person in order to prevent the avoidance of the liability of the offence by deliberately shutting down a legal person. Article 40 complemented the possibility of paying fines in wars for up to six months, provided that the costs of the procedure were paid, extending the possibility for another three months. Article 44 of the Law provides for the possibility of being released from punishment by a perpetrator after an offence has been committed, and before finding out that he has been discovered, removes the consequences of the crime or compensates for the damage done by an offence. Article 60 introduces a new safeguard measure of mandatory psychiatric treatment at large, with the possibility of occasional hospitalisation in the institution, thus preventing the release of the defendant under these circumstances. Respecting that it is a very short period of time and that we are slowly approaching the end of the public debate, I can say that these are just some of the examples of today's agenda and the Law on Violations that are not fully highlighted in principle and which make this law complete, to the greatest extent consistent with the reality and time in which we live, as well as the necessary practice, which makes this law, as well as the entire course of the Ministry of Justice, an excellent assessment. The only possibility of our parliamentary group is that we will clearly support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21450	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21451	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will begin my presentation today with your words, Mr. Minister, when you said that criminal courts and the Law on Infringements are the first and most often the only meeting of citizens with the judicial system and the place where citizens trust is created in the judicial system at all. I absolutely agree with your claim, and I support it by the fact that, annually or in 2010, there were 576,210 new cases and new criminal reports, in 2011 593,000, 2012 559.000 such cases. If that number of people, so let only one man and one witness participate in a misdemeanor procedure, millions of people each year have needs and encounters what with judges for violations, what with courts, what with the Law of Infringement itself. That's why I'm grateful to you for letting go of a very high-quality law written by practitioners and not "Resavers" as it was in the previous period which, thank God, is behind us. This law is a law that has amputated political vanity, which is very difficult in Serbian conditions, because it is the basis of this law, and the proposer did not hide it, a proposal made by the Commission of the Major Criminal Court in Belgrade. The proposal was drafted in a strong, good, large, long public debate that lasted until 23 November 2012. Also, in October 2012, a public debate was held in the Palace of Serbia, as well as in the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia because businessmen, entrepreneurs, were interested in all the changes the bill makes. I think in the Public Procurement Act, with several system laws that we've passed over the past year, this law is a standard and a way that laws should be released into the process and what laws should be passed. After all, such a grudge came to us last week from Mr. Stefan Phil, to try to reduce the number of laws that are adopted by an emergency procedure in this National Assembly. From termological to essential changes came to 220 members of the parent law, so it is a good idea not to go on changes and additions but to draft a new law on violations. In these few days of debate here at the tide, although I have not heard any stronger reasons to vote against such a law, but not in the professional public, somehow the most fractured spears around the extension of the age-oldness period from one year to two, or for absolute obsolescence from two to four years. What was an argument to some who said that it was not necessary to extend the limitation period is that now perhaps judges for violations will work more nonchalantly, more relaxed, is a longer period of limitations, etc. But I think these are reasons that are too descriptive, too hypothetical of something else that this extension of limitations brings us. On the one hand, we have, at least in 2010, 96,722 cases that have become obsolete in criminal courts. In 2011, we have 112,000, and in 2012, 103,000 cases that are obsolete. How much energy has been invested in these cases? How much work? How long? How much money? How many of these cases that are out of date cost our country? Can we treat all taxpayers' money so unscheduled? On the other hand, what gets even more, and not measured materially, is security. The security of citizens who haven't committed their crimes, who don't think about it in a way that someone who has committed a crime, tomorrow because of the attorney's skills or because of the judge's great busyness for the offenses, may not be under the arrest of justice. This extension of the limitation period will be demotive for anyone who will commit a violation tomorrow, they will know that due to the overcrowding of judges, because of the slowness of the courts for violations, will escape the hands of justice. I think we're making a connection with SNS policy and this government of the Republic of Serbia, which is a zero tolerance policy for crime and corruption, no matter what form and violation of the law, at any level. I know this law of violations brings some standards that will prevent antiquity of cases. One of these norms is also the delivery of writings that are defined in a much stricter, better way. I don't know how much this way will please Mr. Milan Krkobiæ, director of PTT, because it introduces a way for the delivery of letters not only through PTT, but also through other legal entities. I think it's good and that it should be competitive to get to quality, because if in large cities the delivery of letters is only 20% of the total delivery, it's too little, and yet the state and judges have certain costs to hand over those letters and those calls. After all, imagine the situation, that, for example, the director of the Belgrade Water and sewerage, Mr. Cvijo Babic, who was submitted by DRI due to irregularities in the work of several criminal reports and Mr. Cvijo Babic, for example, went to Dr. Aleksandar Sapic in Nambi, who will provide him with the subpoena there? I don't know who? Serbia's mail doesn't have an outpost in Namibia, and I don't know how it's gonna be delivered. That's why competition has to be done. As a result, due to some of the principles that have been tightened, such as public-interest work, the execution of decisions by misdemeanor courts, misdemeanor orders and the many other newspapers that this law makes, the SNS will support this bill in the Full Capacity Voting Day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21452	Since there is no time left for the remaining members of parliament to be reported, I ask if the presidents want the word, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right to the Rules of Procedure. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21453	Dear Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues from the High Council of Justice and the State Council of Prosecutors, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, under the circumstances of three days, we have had a principle debate on the draft law on violations. I am pleased that this debate has lasted three days, because I have indeed seen this debate as a very constructive discussion, as an opportunity to hear and praise at the expense of the Law on Infractions proposed, but also to hear constructive proposals to further improve this law so that this area is not really regulated in a way that is in line with European standards. This will be another opportunity to commend the work of Minister Selakovic and his team. And Mr. Stefan File, when giving a speech here, praised all the activities in implementing the judicial reform, given that the reform was carried out in 2009-2010, apparently experienced a debacle, which Mr. File also mentioned several times. The law on violations we've been discussing for three days brings a whole series of good news to our citizens. Our citizens do meet with the judiciary most often through a criminal system. It is good that now the delivery system will be, if nothing else, electronic, which will speed up the misdemeanor procedures. It is good that our citizens will be given the possibility that when they commit an offence, which they are aware of, they can, by means of a payment order, pay only half the fine within the time period prescribed by the law and thus confess on the one hand that they are guilty, and on the other hand, to go where and where better. It's good to put a big accent on the so-called. alternative sanctions. Indeed, work in the public interest, which exists everywhere in Europe, which is everywhere in the world, has shown excellent results. It is much better for our poor citizens, who have committed some kind of offence, to go and work 20 to 360 hours in the social and useful interest, to snow in winter or to help, say, in hospitals, than to pay fines that definitely go out of their budget and in some way punish our people's children. They'd better work in the general social and useful interest. It is also good that the law is written by an extremely good working group. Of course, a confession should also be given to the former Justice Department. That's when the first task force was formed to make this bill. She's met several times. But it is good that the current Justice Ministry has taken over certain solutions and has further improved the existing law, which, of course, in the voting day, there is no doubt that it will be adopted and that it may even be adopted unanimously. In any case, the SNS will support him as much as possible. Of course, it should also be supported that the fines in this law have not been changed, even though they were last changed three years ago. Simply, it's a difficult financial situation in the country, and it's good that the fines are between five and 150 thousand dinars. Of course, this government fully supports, and we've heard many times from the opposition, that it's good to have as strict a criminal policy as possible. That's why, as a demagogue, I'm experiencing that some have criticised the fines provided for by this law. I'm going to set an example, let's say, in my opinion, in certain laws that regulate violations are even minor. For example, for example, who abuses or hurts or destroys wild animals will be punished with just five to 50,000 dinars. As far as I'm concerned, that punishment should be bigger. But it's also good that the fines are not raised in general. I will remind myself that, for example, a fine of 150 thousand dinars very rarely appears in our breaking legislation, but for example, it is intended for a natural person who throws an object on a sports field or on a playground or on a person who brings torches on the same sports grounds, lights torches and the like. These are again good examples of a sharp one, let's say, criminal policies, but it's good that this Law of Infraction, which we discussed here in principle, is also intended to work in the social interest. The whole series and other elements indicate that the Law on Infractions is extremely well written, so that it can receive the broadest support in the congregation. I'll remind the team that over 100 amendments have been given, which is also very commendable. These amendments will be discussed today at the Committee on Justice at 12.00 hours, i.e. at the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law at 13.00 hours. It will be an opportunity to make some quality amendments, such as Amendments concerning limitation deadlines, maybe even adopt and then really get the widest possible support from the law. As for the proposal to elect new judges and new prosecutors, I would indeed like to congratulate both the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. When a man reads the biographies of the proposed judges and prosecutors, we can really say that a new optimism is born. These are really, the best-quality people, people who have completed legal colleges with excellent success, many of them have mastered. Some also write doctorates. All have passed the Judicial Academy, all have passed further education and training in both the country and abroad, in courses organised by our friends, either from the OSCE, either from the IRC, the GTC, etc. It is indeed a pleasure to read the biographies of these people who are now going to be judges and prosecutors. But I must also remind myself that these are the same people who are in the so-called. 2009-2010 reforms failed, they were not selected, although they had the best grades, the highest quality. I have no doubt that after the election of such judges and prosecutors, our citizens will feel better in the Serbian judiciary, they feel that the people who judge and work in the court and the prosecutor's office are as skilled as possible. I just want the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Chief Prosecutors to propose in future such candidates. Finally, Colaric, who was proposed by the president of the Republic as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency, is also an example of an excellent biography, an excellent expert, an excellent professional. It's a colleague who, with great success, graduated from college, later mastered, doctored. He's an extraordinary professor today. She wrote over 80 papers. Most of the scientific papers are just from the field of fighting corruption, which proves that the best people, the best candidates, the best people, the biggest experts will take over and now take up the highest and most responsible state positions. This is particularly important for the Anti-Corruption Agency, where the principle of zero tolerance, promoted by the SNS, will certainly be further promoted when counterpart Kolaric is elected to the post proposed by the president of the republic. In one word, in the voting day, with great satisfaction, the SNS will also support the Justice Ministry's bill, but also any other proposals from the Supreme Council of the judiciary, DVT and the president of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21454	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21455	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank you for your great honor and opportunity for me to address you, and for the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to judge office, which was delivered by the High Council of the Judiciary to the National Assembly. First of all, on behalf of the High Council of the Judiciary, I owe an apology that our representative, on the first day of the principle debate, was unable to approach. From what we've seen, it's spent a little more time on you. I hope that even from the debate that followed, we can remove all the doubts that have arisen about this proposal that has been delivered to the National Assembly. What appeared here in the debate and which was asked as a question and was asked by the High Council of the Judiciary, the High Council of the judiciary had the same inconceivables as it was when this proposal was made. Namely, you saw in the explanation that 447 candidates applied to the contest, with the mahogany of the judges and the mahogany of all these judicial assistants and we who were elected, election members of the VSS, and we know and monitor their work. We are aware that among these candidates there are judicial assistants who certainly deserve to be elected to office one day. The fact is that in 2010, the Judicial Academy launched a competition for enrolment in initial training at the Judicial Academy. I'll tell you a little bit of a misunderstanding that appeared to my judge who was working with me at the time. When the competition was announced, he asked me what to do, whether to apply to the competition or not. Of course, it's a decision of every individual what to do in such a situation. How can I help him? I said put the positive sides on one side and the negative sides on the other side. What's the positive side? The positive side was her belief that when she finished the Judicial Academy, that one day she would be proposed to elect to serve as judge. What were the negative sides? The negative side of this was that the competition and admission to the Judicial Academy required an end to the working relationship. So the judicial assistants who were in a permanent working relationship had to break their working relationship in the courts where they worked and set up a working relationship at a certain time at the Judiciary Academy. The next negative side is that it had to travel, separation from family. In the end, when she added it all together, she said – I will not compete. Some of these young people have embellished themselves, broken up working relationships, separated themselves from their family, and devoted themselves to training at the Judicial Academy. What I must note is that the proposal submitted by the High Judicial Council to the National Assembly and to the Committee on Justice, as well as to the Committee on Legislative Affairs and Constitutional Affairs, has received unanimous support. It is also the basis of the High Court's advice to stay with this proposal and in general. I am not going to repeat now the reasoning that has been written to all of you in writing, but in order to remove the doubts in which the proposal was made - the proposal was not done directly by applying the provisions of the Law on the Judicial Academy, but rather by applying the Law on Judges. The proposal is made in accordance with Article 50(4). The law on judges. Previously, all candidates, including candidates who completed the initial training of the Judicial Academy and other candidates, have been checked for compliance with the criteria in accordance with the provisions of Articles 44, 45 and 46. The law on judges. So, as general conditions -- that citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that they meet the general conditions for working in state authorities, that they have completed the Law School, that they have passed a judicial exam, need work experience after a judicial examination. It has also been examined for each candidate individually and to meet the criteria, competence and dignity in accordance with the decision on criteria and criteria. If you look at the list delivered to the National Assembly, you will see that 14 candidates have completed their initial training in the Judicial Academy, and two candidates come from the order of the judicial assistants. The debate did not mention any of the names proposed to the National Assembly to be chosen by the non-judgmental office. I will point out that the High Council of the judiciary does not comply with Article 50(4). The Law on Judges proposed several candidates to the National Assembly, but contrary to only one candidate whom he considered to be the best, from candidates who participated in the competition. Why are the proposed candidates who completed their initial training at the Justice Academy? The high counsel of the judiciary is in front of the same dilemma as the National Assembly is now. So, is the fact that the provision of Article 40, paragraph 8, has the obligation of the High Council of the Court to propose the selection of these candidates under completed training a positive discrimination for these candidates, or must only the Law on Judges be applied? During the proposal, the VSS was aware that a constitutional procedure was launched before the Constitutional Court in 2011 to assess the constitutionality of this provision. I can inform you that the latest information that this proposal has been submitted to the National Assembly and the Constitutional Court has initiated this procedure. The High Council of the judiciary has given priority to these people for another reason after carrying out a check of compliance with the criteria necessary for the choice, because the VSS is obliged to propose a choice for the candidate's judicial office. It's a legal obligation of the VSS. The High Council of the judiciary was not authorized to consider whether the provision was in accordance with the Constitution of the law, but was obliged to apply it. The High Council of the judiciary also had in mind the open letter from the Association of Judges, which was delivered to you, but also the opinion of the Supreme Cassation Court session. It has been considered and after the debate, such a decision and a proposal has been made as submitted to you. In addition, why is only one candidate proposed to the National Assembly? The High Council of the Judiciary was able to deliver more candidates to the National Assembly for election to one place, that is to say, for one seat in the judicial office. However, the VSS came from not giving the National Assembly a dilemma and putting it in an awkward position to choose the next day someone not proposed by the VSS, with all due respect and that principle. I wouldn't take any more of your time. I think this proposal is well made and needs to be adopted. In the end, I owe one explanation, which is why 16 candidates were proposed and not 15 candidates, as published in the ad. 15 candidates who completed the initial training of the Judicial Academy applied. One of the candidates filed an application exclusively for one court, for the First Basic Court in Belgrade. The obligation of all members of the Judicial Academy is to file their application for all courts, i.e. all vacant seats that exist in all courts in the Republic of Serbia. The applicant did not do so and the application was not considered for this reason. During the formation, as you have seen, a candidate from the Judicial Academy has been left out of the motion in writing. This lack was observed and given that the proposal for a decision had already been published by the VSS found that it would not be complete to cancel the entire competition and re-examine all applications from the beginning. Namely, the re-proposal of candidate Monica Pap from Novi Sad found that she had completed the Judicial Academy and that her application had been made so that she applied for all the vacant places that existed and for which the election was announced. In the primary court in Novi Sad, there was a vacant place for a judge's office. By reviewing its application, the High Council of the Court found that there was a possibility to propose for a judicial post because it was the obligation of the students or those who had completed the start of training of the Judicial Academy to submit an application for election to all the places in question. For that reason, and for reasons of generality, in order not to repeat myself, this whole procedure has been delivered to you by this motion. In addition, these two candidates who have not completed initial training on all criteria meet the conditions for choice. In fact, candidate Aleksandra Vosiokovic met the conditions according to all criteria and was the first among all candidates to apply for the first basic court in Belgrade. I'll just point out some facts from her biography. The law school ended at 22, with an average score of 9.48, passed a judicial exam in 2003 and has 10 years of working experience as a judge. In addition, she published several professional papers and completed more training and more seminars. The next candidate is Milica Gavrancic from Vrsac. She finished law school at 23, with an average score of 9.61. He has four years of working experience as a judicial assistant, completed training and the same as the previous candidate, Aleksandra Gosiokovic, was, according to all the criteria used, the first among those reported. Also, it wasn't just used as a criterion for an average grade in law school. They were prepared for all candidates of opinion, then the evaluations received by all the judicial assistants over the last three years, and on this basis this proposal was also built. I suggest you fully adopt a motion from the National Assembly to elect judges who are first elected to office. What I would like to point out, and what was also in the debate, were brought to the debate by certain errors or by some doubts about the work of certain judges. I suggest you submit such proposals to a disciplinary prosecutor, who exists in both the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, as an authorised authority, to examine such failures. I think respecting such a system and the reputation of the judiciary would increase by not discussing such failures outside the institutions of the system, which should also give an assessment of whether these failures are such that they deserve also disciplinary sanctioning. I use the opportunity, if the chairman allows me, to point out that our judiciary faces the problems that all other judiciarys have, and even the judiciary of more developed societies, but that there are also positive things and positive events in the judiciary, but according to our mentality, rarely when we have the opportunity to make such examples and mentions. I'll take the chance now, and I'll give you an example. Not long ago, in 2011, the World Bank questioned its needs and recommendations for investment in several countries of the region, including Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Albania, all the countries of the former Yugoslavia. One of the courts was assessed, in relation to all the other courts being investigated, as the most effective, and in addition, the result was that the length of the proceedings before that court was even shorter than the proceedings before the courts in America and counting on the average from the date of the initial act to the final achievement. I thank you once again, and I suggest you select all these candidates the High Council of the Judiciary has proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21456	Thank you. (Milica Radovic, from place: Replica. ) So far, we have not had the custom of giving a replica after the closing word. He didn't mention you directly, nor was the MP group mentioned. I don't think you have the right to a replica. I am concluding a joint principle and uniform search on the draft law on infringements, a motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office, a proposal for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor and a proposal for a selection of members of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee. We move to point 1 - Proposal for an Amendments and Supplements Law on State Period and Cartr. Please inform the Minister to enter the Hall. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of Mr Velimir Ilic, Minister of Civil Engineering and Urbanism, I have called for today's session to be attended by Zoran Krajovic, Director of the Republic Geodetic Institute and Miljan Kuzmanovic Kostić, Assistant Director of the Republic Geodetic Institute. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic, Ljubica Milosevic, Olgica Batić, Zlata Đerić, Dragan Marković, Petar Petrovic, Vojislav Vujić, Nevena Stojanović, Đorđe Kosanić, Zoran Vasić, Radoslav Komlenović, Vesna Marković, Dragan Todorovic, Aleksandar Senić, Dušan Obradović, Ivan Jovanovic, Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Marković, Miroslav Petković, Milan Lapčević, Bojana Bozanić, Aleksandar Pejčić, Judita Popović, Radmila Gerov, Kenan Hajdarević, Milorad Mijatović, Vladimir Marinko Gogić and the Committee on Physical Planning, Transport, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. You have received a report from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since I've been informed that the minister hasn't arrived yet, I'm setting a break of 10 minutes and we're continuing at 11.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21457	We're going back to work. On Article 1st of the amendment was tabled by the People's MP, Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21458	Thank you very much. The President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have tabled a total of nine amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Crossing and Cataster and, as we can see, the Government has proposed to the National Assembly that they reject the amendment to Article 1 that I have submitted and that I have requested to delete the introduction of new members of 10a, 10b and 10v. It is no problem that the Government has rejected my amendment, there is absolutely no single problem with the fact that in the future, it rejects any amendments to my amendment, but it is interesting that the Government has proposed to the National Assembly to reject the amendment of all MPs. Now, as for the amendment to Article 1 and all the other amendments to all the other members that I have submitted, each amendment contains its own reasoning, so that I will not explain my amendments in the future, and as Mr Velimir Ilic said in principle - I do not want to bother the Members of Parliament, so, from here on out, that in the future, all the amendments have been rejected. This Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Crossing and Cataster turns out to be a perfect legal proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21459	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Articles 157, paragraphs 6 and 161 of Article 1(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 1 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. Does anyone want a word? National MP Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21460	Given that there have been ten proposed amendments by all parliamentary groups to Article 1, we have today proposed this amendment at the Committee's session, which I hope we will support in the voting day, for the reason that in the principle debate there were the most problems over whether this right to increase wages should only be given to the workers of the geodetic profession, or should those workers of the Republic Geodetic Institute who work on the work of the cataster of immovableity. The Committee had the opinion that other members and amendments of the Committee should be given the right, not only to the geodetic profession, but also to other workers working on these jobs, where there is an additional increase. In principle, the objection was also made by the LDP and some other parliamentary groups – which is based on which only the director of the Institute can have the authority to increase workers, for example. Three to 50% salary? The amendment of the Committee has been proposed to adopt a specific Regulation and to make a change of the coefficient after that to the Director, in accordance with that Regulation. In that regard, I think that the Committee has made a proposal, corrected that Article 1 on which we had the most objections in the principle debate. The comments had all the parliamentary groups and I believe that this is how this amendment has improved this Article.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21461	Thank you. Minister Ilic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21462	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you know that through the principle debate, I promised to do what the MP was now talking about and you know it yourself, in the discussion we had, we agreed that he couldn't do it alone, it had to be some rule, and that it wasn't right for him to do it, and that's okay. We agreed, all the parliamentary groups proposed that it applies to all the employees of the RGZ, not just to the geodetics. But, you know, in the government, you may have followed, the Ministry of Finance didn't want to talk about it, and it vetoed it, and it couldn't be accepted. However, the Committee has its right, you have your right, you are MPs, and in the day to vote you declare all this. You know, when finance doesn't allow, the government can't get through, and there was a basic problem. The finance ministry didn't agree with that, and that's why it was rejected by the government. I'm very sorry that you've all been unique on the same amendment, Malten, but here, you see for yourself. So, the Committee has the right to come forward with its proposal, in the voting day you have the right to make a statement about it, and this part that, in my opinion, is very correct, that there is no one and neither is the director with the right to determine it, but there must be a rule that will regulate it, and the director is the one who signed it. It's perfectly normal, and it's fine, and you asked for it, and I basically agreed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21463	Thank you. National MP Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21464	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course we welcome this amendment to the Committee. We also submitted this amendment to Article 1, believing that there should be no discrimination against any profession employed by the RGZ. We believe that it is necessary to attract experts, to attract as many graduates as possible, especially those with passed judicial exams, who will be able to carry out very demanding, very professional, very complicated jobs within the work of the RGZ. So that would be totally fine. However, there is one systemic problem with the functioning of the RGZ. Apparently, even last year when we discussed amendments to the Ministry Act, and then we submitted one amendment, deeming it insufficient to oversee the work of the RGZ only one ministry and that of the Ministry of Civil Engineering. We believe that it is necessary for the Ministry of Civil Engineering to oversee that part of the work relating to these RGZ professional affairs and for the Ministry of Justice to be responsible for overseeing this legal part of the business, the affairs of the state administration which are also an integral part of the RGZ's jurisdiction. Only then can we come up with one serious control of the work of this so important institution, so important in general regarding legal certainty and at all the functioning, respect for basic human rights, as far as private property is concerned. You'll allow it, the legal part of the deal today is 50% of the jobs performed by the RGZ. If that's the case, I don't think it's a good solution for lawyers, that part of the profession that concerns, above all, real rights and private property, etc., to kind of marginalize and push into another plan. You won't be able to attract investors or new investments unless you introduce one order into the functioning of that RGZ. You'll allow, the current structure, which carries these really complicated jobs that are given to the RGZ's jurisdiction, is very fragile to withstand all those expectations that we all have from RGZ. We must not lose sight of the fact that the RGZ has taken over a good part of the work that once was done by the courts. It is in the domain of real rights, enrollment and implementation of property rights on real estate. That part of the job simply wasn't the original part of the RGZ business, because GZ recorded the owners and possessions, and certainly no property rights, real rights, mortgages, etc. The current functioning of the economy in general, the current functioning of investment in the economy requires, among other things, clear papers, clean papers regarding the records and registration of all real estates, and we can only achieve this republican geodetic institution if we recognise the importance it has and give all possible support to strengthen the capacities of the Republic Geodetic Institute. That's not possible if the legal profession somehow ends up being left aside, if it's the management of this office. You know, there's been, say, a situation that even the Constitutional Court has been discussing the constitutionality of a government provision relating to double tax payments if one of the clients wanted to implement his request to register certain property rights as soon as possible. It's simply inadmissible, that part of the work you're in charge of and that you have to do as quickly and professionally as possible, you charge an extra fee to get out of the party to meet. It is good that the Constitutional Court noticed this problem and estimated it to be an unconstitutional provision, but for years citizens have been paying double fees that are not even so small. Isn't that right, Mr. Minister? That wouldn't have happened if the RGZ and the Department of Justice and the state administration had that right. It's simply that it's some kind of grantature as to RGZ, because you have completely two different areas of business that you've now put into one frame, and these jobs are so different that the profession is kind of discriminatory, in this case legal profession when it comes to embezzling these really low wages at the Republic Geodetic Institute. So, I would ask the question – why did it start from first predicting an increase in the geodetic profession, and then through the assembly debate and discussion on the board we come to this situation to simply erase this discrimination? That's just inadmissible. And in this case you can see to what extent these professions are treated in different ways. Let's not be confused about it, we really support the balance of that salary to the RGZ and we really welcome your willingness to understand how much it takes and welcome if there really is a good will to change this government's attitude towards such an important institution as the RGZ. Therefore, we expect you to do everything in your power, Mr. Minister, to improve the quality of the work of the Republic Geodetic Institute. Obviously, we have not yet achieved the quality expected of it. For this reason, we expect you to put all that matter regarding the Republic Geodetic Institute first when it comes to the fact that we want some economic recovery, because this is the first question of whether we will strengthen the rule of law on the subject of respect for private property. If this respect is not only a declarative nature, but also through the serious work of the RGZ and the serious work of the Ministry, which provides all possible support, in which case we can expect much more investors and much more investment, without which, we will agree, there is no economic recovery. So consider introducing the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration as an essential force for raising the expertise, quality and efficiency of the work of the RGZ in this whole story.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21465	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The MPs Zlata Đeric, Dragan Todorovic, Aleksandar Senic and Ljubica Milosevic, Slobodan Veličković and Slobodan Jeremic submitted to the 1st amendment in the same text. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21466	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, in principle, I have found that there are three inadmissible solutions. One of these inadmissible solutions is discrimination between lawyers and IT professionals in relation to employed geodetic professions. In that regard, we have also made an amendment that these employees are equal to each other on their incomes and on the professional preparation of the geodetic profession employees. We've received informal information that such an amendment is acceptable to the government, and we're receiving a report from the government where the amendment was received. On the other hand, that same or almost the same amendment has passed or been adopted by the Committee as an amendment to the Committee. What I want to draw attention to is that it is the government's argument that the amendment is not accepted for reasons that it is not certain whether there will be enough funds for increased coefficients for all state officials in the Republic Geodetic Institute. On the other hand, we are giving an amendment in almost the same form, where the committee's proposal accepts and rationale – this amendment puts all civil servants in the office working on the business of the building block, as the business of general interest for the Republic of Serbia, regardless of which professions, which I agree with. But I draw attention to an easy approach that, in my opinion, is due to the great intricacies of writing of this law and which leaves the consequences of which I will point out in the following reports. On the other hand, I'm asking, is there vanity here? So no amendments have been accepted. I suppose the intricacies of those who wrote this law affected that their great vanity would not allow a single amendment to be accepted. Of course, not only does the DS amendment have to be accepted, some other amendment can be accepted, but I'm asking, is every amendment so bad, that it couldn't be accepted, and they were giving excellent solutions? On the other hand, the minister says all amendments concerning the equalisation of employees have been rejected by the government. I have to ask you if I'm right. You've explained to us that employment and systematicization solutions contain basic salaries of 23,000 dinars, I think you've mentioned that exact number, and that some fictitious increases, through writing fictitious, extra hours and fictitious exits on the ground, that salary increased to some average amount, as we've heard here, 45,000 dinars. You've explained to us that the pay-outs will not be increased. Why didn't you explain it to the government, or your coalition partners don't trust you? So, I ask the question -- does this government have any trust at all? We believed you and gave you the amendments here. We had a correct, constructive conversation, where together we realized that it was necessary to sharpen what was fictionally depicted and that people should have certain salaries. But how can the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance not allow you or challenge your explanation, if he trusts you and if it is already agreed that there will be no breach of the money mass? Or is this about some vanity again, where they're supposed to suffer the employees of the catastro and continue to allow their discrimination? You were saying that there was a constant strike of employees in the catastrophe. If we did what the government says, we'd have a situation where lawyers, informers, would not be satisfied. What if they strike again? Or would you still pay them off some fictitious profits? I'm just asking you to explain to me why your coalition partners from the government didn't believe that the money mass would not be increased, but, please, without mentioning any mineral fertilizer, some banks, some bridges, which are not the subject of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21467	The word has Minister Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21468	I'll be very brief. It is true that we have spoken here and it is true that I have had proposals from all MPs and it is true that I brought it up in the Government. The finance ministry felt that they had placed police, tax collectors and geometers in this position. They felt that if they opened the lawyer's problem, then secondly those in the ministry would seek the same thing, so they would look for other lawyers in the MUP, then lawyers in third, fourth and fifth places and think it would go on forever and that the budget would come out of some frameworks and it could not be financially supported. It's the Ministry of Finance's position. They explain that the funds currently in the budget that has been designed for everything have not been settled. So it's not about trust and mistrust. This is a matter of deal with the geometry, the finance ministry gave the green light and it just backed it up. I understand and understand you, as well as the previous debater. It is true that there are extremely many legal issues here that are controversial. All of this is controversial, all of these are judicial solutions that are in various stages of the process, etc. It is true that this needs to be arranged, but it should be done at the change of the Ministry Act, and then include another ministry to assist. If a court dispute lasts five years, you can't give any solution until the dispute is over. There's still a problem that's a label for all of us, and there's really nothing we can do until the dispute is over. The law on planning and construction will come to parliament very soon, where the issue of property is problematic. It's a legal question, it's not a question of some engineering profession so we can speed it up. If something's been in the dispute for years, we have to wait for the dispute to end. There are still many legal issues that have not been regulated for years, but we expect this to be over slowly. This is not a mistrust in the government, this is no problem at all in the government, simply, the Ministry of Finance felt that if one group of lawyers were to advance officially, then the entire chain must. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21469	Thank you. The word has Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21470	I'm not very happy with the explanation, because I'm still staying with what I asked, and that's your claim that the cash mass for the cadastre will not be specifically broken when it comes to wages. But what I want to ask you is this -- since the director has already agreed to accept this amendment, are you in favour of accepting this amendment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21471	Thank you. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21472	I'll just relate to what the minister said when it comes to the Law on Planning and Construction. I'm going to ask him one question that, when we discussed this law in principle, we mentioned that it does not have too much purpose because it will not solve a number of issues unless the legalisation process is unblocked, or if it does not comply with the enrollment of illegally built objects in the cadastre. At the time, the minister said the law on legalisation is in the assembly procedure or procedure, I'm not quite sure. I was looking at the Assembly site, there was no legalization law, then I looked at the government site, there was no legalization law there either. I found it on your ministry's website, it's a draft law on legalization of objects. The law, since it is now in the draft, since probably before the government's reconstruction, if it is, there will be no other legislative activities, will likely come if, of course, the government survives in the fall. What's going to happen by autumn with that process? So this is one complex area. (President: Mr. Veselinovic, it is my duty to inform you that we should only talk about the subject of the agenda, which is an amendment to Article 1.) Thank you, Chairman. Believe me, these two things are very, very connected. I'm just gonna finish. My question. There is no purpose for this amendment to the law, nor for the entry of illegally built objects, until a new law on legalisation is passed, or until the existing one is amended. So I ask you, Minister, because of the integrity of solving the problem, when will the law on legalisation of objects be found in the assembly procedure and do you have the consent of coalition partners to this law by 26 members? I couldn't get a look at the details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21473	Thank you. The word has Minister Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21474	Since you've been searching, I'll explain, and I've been searching. The law will be held at the first cabinet session, so it is in the government, with all positive opinions. So, first session of the government, the law will be in the process, maybe it will already be tomorrow and by emergency procedure come here to parliament. So expect it at the next session. At least that's what they told me. As for us at the Ministry, he has passed the procedure and received all positive opinions and is ready for a session of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So I was told it would be most likely at the first next session that could be tomorrow or the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21475	Thank you. Anyone else want a word about the amendment? (No) The National MP Vesna Markovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs Dusan Obradovic and Ivan Jovanovic together submitted to the 1st amendment, with a correction. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21476	Thank you. Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in an explanation followed by this law, you said that the adoption of amendments and additions is actually due to the following things - the adequate regulation of the status of employees in the Republic Geodetic Institute, of course, only these geodetic professions, and we have already said this many times today and the other reason is the motivation of the geodetic profession workers working under difficult conditions, have an increased scope of jobs, have low salaries and are often on strike. And what you also wrote in your explanation, and what Mrs. Banovic, my colleague, commented, is that it is necessary to raise wages to geodetic workers because in this way we prevent corruption, which I would especially not comment on, I think is enough for myself. Of course, I must stress that these salaries, in fact in our terms, in these present conditions in Serbia are not so low, let's say that in December, an SSS worker received 45,837 dinars. I am a professor and I know that teachers across Serbia receive such salaries with colleges that they have completed, and also work some very responsible work under difficult conditions. With college beginners earning 52,000, an independent advisor of 76,000, a senior advisor who received over 105,000 dinars. If wages are now increasing from 3% to 50% as much as you stated, that's quite a sum of money. I don't know how this should be stimulated only by these workers, while other public sector workers, the budget rebalance, are projected to increase earnings for them by 0.5%, which is practically or less a sum than today, including inflation, or in any case is not an increase. How do we explain now this increase only to the workers of the geodetic profession, those 750 thousand unemployed people. And they can do some work for the state. I also think that the profit range between those who have the ESS and those who have VSS is not the right measure, and I think it's the place where they need to look for an increase, or a reduction in wages. It seems to me that as you predicted, it's a very large range, and secondly, that range depends solely on the good will of the director giving a pretty big space to that good will of the director, in any way reflect. So the powers vested directly to the Director are too large and we think we should cut back. In doing so, this range of 3% to 50% is not particularly, I think, accurate and I think the better formulation that we've given, although you've answered here in an explanation that the proposed solution is more appropriate and that everything does not follow the concept of the law that you've given. I can agree with you not to follow your concept, we've tried to fix something we can fix. In the way you wrote here, we do, in fact you do double discrimination. Discrimination within the geodetic profession, you have now said that you are finally considering that some other professions that work in the RGZ may also have these same working conditions, but, for God's sake, you are discriminating people who are employed in the public sector. So it doesn't seem like it's going to contribute to any improvement. As things are now being interpreted, tomorrow the police will be looking for the same thing, and I expect the educators to look for this, and then what we have defined as a state for the concept of savings, in no way will happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21477	The word has Minister Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21478	I wouldn't want to explain the same thing for the hundredth time. So, in your explanation, you saw no increase in assets in mass. So these are receipts, not wages, salaries by the rules of those professions that you mentioned, from 21 to 23 thousand dinars. And that's why we wanted to no longer go on these stories over overtime, alertness, etc. to come to those receipts, but to officially be paid without having this other one, and it was also a proposal to make it official. When the workers come, when you call them, when the unions come, they come up with solutions that say 21 to 23 thousand, when you look at receipts, you see what you're talking about. So we want all the salaries to be defined by law. That there can't be so many deviations between official solutions and receipts. That's what these changes are all about. So, I explained last time, and I think that's okay. We thought it had to be nice in the rulebook, that's what the union is asking, that's how long it's got. The lowest, which means 21 thousand 50%, the one with the higher will have a 3% increase. It's just fine, and that's the rule we talked about will regulate and you'll have an insight into all the receipts on the site, and you'll be able to follow, watch, and, of course, comment. In addition, they report to the Serbian government on their work, asset operations, and you can control it through the budget, at the beginning of the financial year, when it is adopted through funds. So the funds in the budget, the finances didn't allow them to change, to increase, and that's the goal, it just means, to officialize something that already exists in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21479	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21480	In practice, it's called cheating the system, Mr. Minister. It has to, and it's a good idea to make it official, and in one way it's visible as a profit. But what I can only say, and that's what I said in this discussion, is very important to all public sector workers. Now, on behalf of the professors I can represent because I'm the one, I can only say that after the government's reconstruction, I expect you to be the minister of education, because if you're fighting for one profession, I'd like someone to fight for us that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21481	The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21482	Thank you, Madam Chairman. All I'm going to ask is that you count my time as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The colleague Vojić Markovic explained the DSS amendment and indeed, the explanation that we received from the government in which he said that – this existing wage system does not give enough motivation to employees in the cadastrian services, so then the solution is the pay data to change the situation, to motivate people who work, to provide some new staff. All those who have been employed by the cataster, who have not gone out in the field once since 2002, can suddenly get that, as you said, Mr. Minister, in a principle debate a few days ago – below the grain, they would not be paid for their earnings. If the state beneath the grain pays off the budget, then we're in serious trouble. Of course we will be in serious trouble, because here the amendments submitted by some colleagues from other opposition parties, including the DSS, did not accept the concept to determine the coefficient and to know exactly how much pay they have, because it is impossible to provide those funds. A huge discretionary right is given to the director of the RGZ, and to people who need to determine and motivate their employees, by paying certain funds in the wide diapazon. We are aware that the basic instrument for applying and this law is solving and solving the catastrophic consequences that have been caused by someone's adventure in the past years, is primarily money, and we unfortunately are a poor state, and I'm sure we won't have enough resources in due course to have all this stuff that we've talked about here paid off. I am absolutely certain that this law will not be respected, i.e. the amendment proposed by the Committee and which will become an integral part of this legislative proposal, will not be respected exactly in that part, which is also spoken of by my colleague Popovic, about some other professions that work on these jobs, but exclusively on the work of geodetic professions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21483	The first amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Vojislav Vujic, Nevenka Stojanovic, Djordje Kosanic, Zoran Vasic and Radoslav Komlenovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21484	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the argument in the Government's opinion is what asked me to report for this amendment, which has not been adopted, and the amendment of the Committee has been adopted. The explanation is as follows: the amendment is not accepted for reasons that it is not certain whether there will be sufficient funds for increased coefficients for these civil servants in the RGZ. So here's the question, will there be enough resources? However, when the Committee tabled the amendment, it is assumed that some financial structure was created in the meantime and that there will be sufficient funding, however, the next uncertainty that arises precisely from this problem that we are talking about, this is how the bridge was carried out from the height of the salary to the height of the receipt, and this is some sort of settlement, right, Mr. Minister? Now that finding out is really possible always. So, we have no guarantee in this bill and based on this amendment to the Committee, that there will be no settlements in the future, because we really don't know whether that number of outings may be increased again, etc. And then these existing salaries that are going to increase further by this coefficient. The next thing you know, it's very important to clarify here, which is that out of the total number of RGZ employees, approximately 10% is not geodetic professions. So when we talk about these resources that are needed to provide, then it should also be taken into account that that is not as high a percentage of those employees of the second profession and do not represent as much burden as was thought at first glance when discussing these coefficients. As the next important thing, this is a discretionary right, too discretionary right that you are now giving to the Director of the Bureau with an amendment from the Committee. Again, we have no guarantee whether this discretionary right will be balanced and will not discriminate again on the less-represented profession within the RGZ. So, these are clear dilemmas and clear questions and it's not about any obstruction, but we're simply interested in whether you, in the context of this bill, think about installing this kind of solution that will be satisfactory for all RGZ professions? I just mentioned to you that this job between the geodetic profession and these others is, above all, a legal profession here about half-a-half. So, if the burden of functioning of this RGZ is worn by all, then it would be good to have all the risks around pay and receiving and in fact all the benefits around that deal in GZ bear and have a common.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21485	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by the National MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Olgica Batić. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Bojana Bozanić and Aleksandar Pejcic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21486	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Presidency, Mr Minister, we have said in the debate in the principle that, when it comes to this law, the DSS parliamentary group will be defined how much you will accept our amendments. We've filed about 30 amendments and you haven't accepted any amendments. We, first of all, tried to express our political position and propose a new concept of this law to you. What I want to ask is a question at the beginning, Mr. Minister, to you and to all the ministers who come here to defend certain laws, that is, will this law be applied throughout Serbia, since we are a legal state or will this government continue to be condescending and sterile towards Brussels and the EU? So, this bill had the latest changes and additions since 2010, and we expected this law to bring about some fundamental changes, changes from the basics, since some new laws that are compatible with this law were passed, and this law should be adapted to those laws. However, the basic provisions of this law are, above all, an increase in earnings, coefficients, licenses employed and what is important, it is an increase in tax. We wanted first of all to draw attention to you and the public, that certain jobs, when it comes to geodetic affairs, cannot be done by people who have finished high school, only by those who have completed colleges. In this way, you are degraded primarily by the school system, degradation and profession, and all those who have graduated from college, and you are sending a bad message to all those who are now finishing colleges, because roughly, these legal provisions and legal solutions, they are equating with all those who have graduated from high school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21487	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Obradovic and Ivan Jovanovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21488	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Government has rejected this amendment, but it is not clear, in the explanation that the concept of the law is not such as to allow businesses, whose founder is the Government, to have a first-class license. I don't understand. Why? If we have a free market, why can't they get a first-class license, why can't they work on that market, like other private companies. I just don't think the state cares about its resources that way. If the purpose of the law, if the concept is to improve application, or to speed up the application of the Law on the entry of illegal objects into the cadastre, I think it's a missed topic, because, after the Constitutional Court's decision a few months ago, in early June, to end the Law on Legalisation, not in this way, to go beyond order. So the Constitutional Court has left six months to the government to pass the law. The law has not been passed and today there are citizens who have entered the legal vacuum procedure, and you are changing the provisions of the Law on State Prime Minister and Cataster, and you have not processed it enough, you have refused all amendments, you have not accepted any amendments from the MPs. This amendment that you also refused, just talks about if it is the founder of the government, and the company is not a direct beneficiary of the budget, it can be on the market and get a first-row license, I don't understand why you don't accept it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21489	Thank you. The word is by the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21490	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, I think it's a big mistake that the government didn't accept this amendment. In addition to my claim that it was absolutely unprofessionally written this bill, there goes that the explanation of the rejection of this amendment is next. The amendment is not accepted because it is contrary to the basic concept of the bill. I read the whole law, the bill of law, along with the constitutional basis, the reasons for the adoption of the law, the explanation of basic and individual solutions, the reasons for the financial means needed to enforce the law, the reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure. There's no mention of the basic concept of the law here. So I ask the representatives of the government to explain to me why this member specifically, or this amendment, is not in line with the basic concept of the bill, because what is written here is not clear to me why the amendment has been rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21491	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21492	I think it would be good to allow a legal person and a public firm to get a license where he would perform geodetic work. Article 12 provides that, although I think it is correct and the amendment that has been submitted, and I really don't see why the Government rejected it, because if the public enterprise, which is a direct and indirect beneficiary of the budget, would allow it to carry out geodetic work and to produce technical documentation and professional supervision of the implementation of geodetic works for which the main project is planned, and for example, the development of a geodetic marking project in the area of urban planning, would significantly reduce the costs incurred by local self-governments, their construction directives or their urban planning and design institutions, which are financed by funds from local budgets, according to private geodetic organisations. I believe and I am sure that much less costs the salary of a man who would do these jobs than the resources required by a local self-government unit would have to transfer to its budget user to pay for a private geodetic organization. For each project, any project, where the main project is needed and the local authorisation is obtained, what the local self-government pays is at a level of 100,000 dinars to several million dinars, depending on the size of the job. It is certain that the salary of one such employee is not a few million dinars on an annual basis, and it would be good to allow local self-governments and, above all, public enterprises, which are users, whether direct or indirect budget funds, so that they can obtain a license to perform such works.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21493	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21494	Thank you. This Article 4 amends the existing Article 13 of the applicable law. In this article, among other things, it is said that the geodetic organisation can perform geodetics from Article 12, so the previous member, where these geodetic works are precisely defined, if the work licence is issued. So it's about issuing a work license, about conditions. Among other things, it is now changing and I believe that the existing position 4 previously read – the public undertaking and the other legal person, the beneficiary of the appropriations, can be issued a work licence only for the works referred to in Article 12 of this Act, which are in the function of carrying out the work for which it was established, so that this amendment, which is proposed by this law, as we have heard from the motionor or read in the explanation, is in the function of precision, so that part of the sentence is changed - which can only be done for their own purposes. It explains that this very attitude was in practice a subject of misunderstanding. It seems to me that this amendment of mine has also been a subject of misunderstanding with the promoter because we have proposed that, apart from being a beneficiary of the budget, it is said that it can also be the authority of the municipal administration, which can be licensed to perform certain geodetic works. I agree with the explanation. The explanation is understandable. It is said that you do not accept the amendment because the authorities of the municipal administration are beneficiaries of the budget, so they are already covered by the term "beneficiary of the budget". That is true, however, you are also talking about public enterprises in this position, and public enterprises are either direct or indirect beneficiaries of budget funds, so I, when I saw that you singled them out even though they were beneficiaries of budget funds, wanted to stand there -- and the authorities of the municipal administration. For what? For reasons of Article 12, point 3 of Article 12 states that this refers to the implementation of geodetic works in the maintenance of the immovableity catastra and the maintenance of the water cadastres. So, it's one of the geodetic works, so we're asking to add, the municipal administration's authority, to reduce the costs of local self-government, which, as a rule, also has permanent employees from the geodetic profession, who can get a license, so local self-government wouldn't have to pay some other legal person to do jobs for them that are important to local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21495	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The National MPs Olgica Batic and Milan Lapčević, Bojana Bozanic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 5th amendment in the same text. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Bojana Bozanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21496	Thank you. The President-in-Office, respected ministers, respected directors, colleagues and fellow MPs, we have proposed that Article 5 be deleted. I really don't understand why he's even listed. In fact, the basic law says: "The face of the geodetic profession without a geodetic license is employed by a geodetic organisation involved in the performance of the jobs for which the educational organisation has been licensed to work". It's, it's simple, it's logical. I don't know why we're changing now, which is why we're erasing this very position in Article 14 of the applicable law? I don't know what you wanted with this. Do we have a change here just for a change? So we're just changing, just that we have some kind of change in law and we're saying that we've changed something. It is understood that these people without a geodetic license can do jobs, but they cannot be business holders in geodetic organisations. We, in this way, in fact, as my colleagues have previously spoken from my parliamentary group, have demoted this profession. I don't even know why these people, who engineers of geodesy, learned, why they went to colleges, paid tuition, which is why their parents paid for schools, paid for apartments, food, books, etc., if they can't be singled out by some of their jobs now compared to their colleagues who eventually finished the fourth degree? I think the legislator had to deal with some other issues here in solving certain problems in the area of national diameter and catastra, rather than identifying such axioms, that the face of the geodetic profession could work in a geodetic organization. That's really funny. You need to deal with the issue of stealing state and municipal countries in certain parts, and it is likely that it is happening throughout Serbia, as well as how to prevent it, to prevent the sprint between the country's usurper and the representatives of the local self-government cadastrian services, and thus to protect that state property, not to arch and take who arrives. So, in this way, by changing things, we're not going to achieve anything, and in this way this whole area of urbanism is not going to get any further than what it is now. So, just clean changes for a change, nothing concrete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21497	Thank you. The word has Minister Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21498	I am very sorry that the MP does not distinguish between two basic concepts – what is catastran, what is urbanism. Urbanism is what you lead on Zlatibor. Urbanism is the worst solution in Zlatibor. He's got the biggest problems on Zlatibor. You know I've replaced all the living out there that existed because of Zlatibor. Do something to get it into order, and this is about high school, high-tech prep, I've told and repeated that there are small municipalities, and not one but dozens, where there's not a single geometry and no one's going to work. There are 20 municipalities where there are no graduate lawyers. You have to train someone, train them so they can work. You can't send a geometer from Belgrade to go to the Lebanese every day. So there's not enough of that profession in Serbia. They must be making courses of variety, training to get a license. We can't close the catastra now, let's say -- we don't have a geometer anywhere in southern Serbia. Why don't we? Because you have no profession. It is true that urbanism has problems, but urbanism and catastra are two different things. I agree with you on urbanism, but do something to make it better. Clean up in your backyard and it'll be much better. I hear this law was made by people inextricably, unqualityly, etc. This team that's doing these laws in the ministries has been working in maybe four last governments. Believe me, I haven't changed anyone there. They're professional people and they've been working for 20 years. Do you believe I haven't changed anyone there? They're professional people and they've been working for 20 years. If you have any better, recommend them or now through this reconstruction to change them all. If you say they're no good, we send them home and we look for new ones. The minister doesn't write the law. That's what I said last time. Engineers don't write laws. The law is written by people who drink with it. Legislative, the chief changes, the director changes, but everyone else is the same. I agree, if they were all bad last time, and now they're bad, but what are you, who are criticizing them now, holding them for four years and now waiting? Nothing easier, if you agree, let's say goodbye, thank them and look for someone else. But, I repeat, a certain profession deals with the team. She's doing it. I'm here to pass on what they wrote and pass on your remarks again, and try to fix something. I agree it's not ideal, I agree it's not good, but I'm also repeating, here, that the same team that writes the laws is in the last five governments. That's guaranteed. In the legislation, people sit in five governments the same. Change the main one, one. Let's do something to make it better. This includes many institutions outside to help work, etc. It is very ugly to go out and say – these people know nothing. It's really ugly. If some professors sit there, I take off my hat, you're all better lawyers than me. But not now if your professors sit there on some commissions, they write something, you say -- they don't know anything, and they were your teachers until yesterday. I'll never tell my professor he doesn't know anything. I'm saying he's a good professor, so I can be a good engineer tomorrow. If I say so - my professor didn't know anything, then I don't know anything, because I didn't have anyone to learn from. Therefore, it is not nice, now to say – nothing is wrong, the whole waist is no good. There are people who have been doing it for 20, 30 years, and they're going to welcome a pension and they're just doing law writing. Now, these laws change through amendments, through various political... Here, a member of the government said his parliamentary group would not vote for a certain amendment and said it would not vote. The other might vote. The decision is in your hands, gentlemen. It's up to you. You vote. You can vote everything you think is right and get most of it. Don't convince me, I brought mine up, what you told me I told you. Don't be mad, we came here to discuss, talk, but please don't just say that nobody knows anything. It's ugly. This is what many outside people look at, we're not exactly that kind of country, our projectors, our people, you realize I've traveled a lot and met our geometry around the world. All the praises I've heard of them are maximum, not just in the European environment, all over the world. People are going to work. Everyone says you have a great shot. I've got a great tub. So, the geometry of our projectors has designed the largest power plants in the world, the largest waterways, the largest systems that are now being worked around the world, projected exceptional highways. I am glad that one of our project firms in Serbia has entered three in Europe. Let's not say it now. These people don't know anything. That's very ugly, that's what I'm saying about these people, that's what gets them. They've been working on this for days. If any of you know better, so that you can help them, give them a good proposal, get involved.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21499	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21500	Your Honor, I don't know why you're taking it personally. I didn't say anything to you. You're defending the law here. So I was talking about the amendment, I don't know if you even know what this amendment is about, specifically, which I was talking about. So it's a confirmation of an axiom that we shouldn't repeat and waste time. My opinion and the opinion of my parliamentary group is that we should deal with the essence, not the form. So, to solve essential problems in the area of state diameter and catastra and in the entire area of urbanism, not make-up, you do similar things, that won't bring us fundamental changes. If we agree that there are problems, then we essentially solve them, and not so controversially, and we only give some members of the law here for a change without them bringing anything fundamental. That's what I was talking about. As far as experts are concerned, experts are doing their job, but today in Serbia and in the last few years, a considerable number of years of expertise is running ahead of politics. So it's the policy that runs the routes, the political parties, the coalitions, the government, those who run the country. And expertise, they have to bend and do as they're told, approximately or move if they feel that their profession is not respected. What I'm still interested in, and last time we started that debate, I'd really like to hear about it, so you didn't do me any favors, who and what you traded for something, what happened on Zlatibor, what the problem was, who you replaced, and I'm very interested in telling me, or I'd really like to invite you to come and solve the problems together. It's the same one of the municipalities here in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, you're the minister for all of Serbia, so come on, let's solve these problems together. If you think there's something, we're doing our utmost in local self-government, that everything we can solve, we've solved a lot of red tape right in the area of urbanism, but the immovableity cadastre belongs to republican authorities, not local self-government. We do our best to cooperate well, but there's a big problem here. Please, this way, come to solve problems together and point out if there's anything controversial.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21501	The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21502	Thank you. I said I would not answer, but for article 5, I would have to react, as I submitted in the same text, as did my fellow MPs from the Democratic Party of Serbia. As my colleague Bojan Djuric of LDP, in principle mentioned well in the debate, I have already been through this barrage fire, so my colleague Bozanić does not have much to tang here, Mr Ilic said all well what he had in the debate in principle. I also have to mention when Mr. Minister mentions that we should not spit on people, no one here calls anyone, no professors, no experts, and make sure that we are consulting with them, that we are talking to them, that they respect our opinion, the same as we respect their opinions, and that I, before I have submitted any amendment, have talked to the people of the Geodetic Institute and the representatives of the union, and with certain teachers, as well as the proposal for a law on special terms of registration of property on illegally built objects, have offered my assistance, have not accepted it, I think it would be complete to accept it in future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21503	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21504	Thank you. We're used to having a minister or a demagogue, to defend his intricacies. Here's another piece of evidence. The same amendment was submitted by Olgica Batic and a group of DSS MPs – Milan Lapčević, Bojana Bozanic and Miroslav Petkovic. So the same amendment to the decimal point. The reason for the refusal of the first amendment is because it is contrary to the basic concept of the bill, and the reason for obtaining the second amendment that is fully identical to the first one is because the proposed amendments to the law allow the geodetic organisation to perform certain geodetic works, etc. It doesn't matter if I read it all the way. It's not a problem with professors. I come from Belgrade's Faculty of Civil Engineering. I respect my college colleagues. I'll never say they're unprofessional. That's what they didn't teach you, that once you've passed on what they have to say, that you know how to pass, because I've asked you three times already to explain it to me, because I really don't understand it because of the public, which means that the amendment doesn't accept, because it's contrary to the basic concept of the bill. In doing so, I have not seen this basic concept of the bill anywhere. I'm asking you again, can you explain what the amendment means to be contrary to the basic concept of the bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21505	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21506	How can I explain to you if you say I'm unprofessional? I admit, I'm not an expert, I'm not a geometer, I'm not even a lawyer, but you've had a lot of professional men, orthopedics. Why didn't he explain it to you? You call him, he'll explain it well. You're fighting for the profession, good for you. Now, find a dentist to lead next time, if you ever come to power. After the orthopaedic, he'd be a good dentist. What do you think? You might want to step on some theologian, too, so he doesn't want to do his profession, so he can help you out.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21507	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21508	I asked you not to give me explanations about this law by mentioning mineral fertilisers, banks and some other things that are not in the subject of this law. Also, if you can not mention orthopedics and dentists, you can explain to me why this amendment is not in line with the basic concept of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21509	Thank you. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21510	I'd like to support this amendment. It's just amazing how Velimir Ilic defends himself when he comes into the situation that he can't say anything about the amendment, so either he doesn't agree with the concept that no one lives in this room knows what he is. I think, Mr. Ilic, if you have experts at the ministry, we respect that, but you're here as a proposing, and you can't hide behind them, because I'm sure those experts would first propose to amend the Law on Legalization that they were wondering, but you were wondering. I do not believe that these experts would propose to amend the Law on Planning and Construction in the spring and argue that the abolition of land conversion provisions will bring strong investors here. That's what you said. Where are those investors today? Today, you are making claims about how this law will improve the position of the geodetic profession. He won't. Here is another provision that prevents market liberalisation. Did these experts also help you build 30 houses in Bogdanje for eight and a half million euros? Are those the experts? I don't think your demagogue attacks can achieve an effect, that it's quite clear to the citizens that you're also mature for reconstruction, but because of the intra-coalization agreements it won't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21511	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21512	Just one question for Mr. Ilic. When an amendment is submitted in the same text by several MPs, in this case different opposition groups, how is it even possible that the Government is giving different opinions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21513	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21514	I will rely on what Mr. Ilic said about his predecessor. There was a lot more order in this area while the orthopedic, as you say, ran this ministry. Let me remind you that these days you've appointed Director Luke Novi Sad a breast surgeon, that the owner of the roaster runs the Coluber, that some members of your city council don't even have a primary school...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21515	The theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21516	Well, you should have warned the minister. Mr. Ilic, it's better if we don't talk about expertise. I'm asking you, for the sake of legal certainty, regarding this law we're passing, and the other laws you're announcing, did you have a session of your main committee or presidency and will you remain a minister? Will the ministry be extended to you?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21517	Mr. Veselinović, the theme. The word is made by the People's Messenger Vladimir Cvian, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21518	The Honorable Chairman, I believe you've injured Article 107. The Rules of Procedure, the dignity of the Assembly, because you should have made at least a warning to the previous speaker. Not only did he stray from the subject, it's the least of the problems, but because he treated individuals with mistreatment. Some of these individuals aren't here. I don't see why he insults, say, heart surgeons and are truly worldly known for it, such as Mr. Milovanchev in Novi Sad, or why he insults a graduate lawyer who's past all other businesses and catering facilities, such as Mr. Obrenovac, who is now the director of the Kolubara. They're not even here to answer, so I'd like to ask that you no longer allow it during the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21519	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 6th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21520	Thank you. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in this Article 6, which refers to the geodetic licenses of the first and second order, but also to the other members of the following: 7, 8, 9 and 10 are indeed making large and completely inappropriate equations between the different levels of education of employees in the RGZ. It is a very dangerous way of destroying the education system, if the education system in this country still exists as a system after all these problems and turbulence with the prom, buying exams, with levels of knowledge that graduates of secondary schools or colleges have. It's quite clear to me, and that's what the minister said, that he's actually trying to resolve this situation that applies to small environments, to small places, that there are no professional staff that can do professional work and try to resolve this situation, but I think there might be some better and better quality way to resolve it, the type of scholarships that give these small environments that experts stay in their area. It might be one way to do quality work in the long run. So, in this way, as proposed here in this law, and especially in this Article 6, we will not get any new quality, we will not increase efficiency, because efficiency and quality should be primary at this time, but we will only lead to a system of education being degraded to the limit by lowering all possible criteria that people who are not professional do some professional work that engineers should do. You are talking about first and second-row licences and both criteria – and level of education and level of work experience really bring down to the limit. With our amendment, we are trying to raise this criterion and one and the other, therefore, and the level of education on one side and the year of work experience, which we also consider important, but I'm sorry, it can't be the only criterion, because someone 12, 15 or 20 years of schooling has a level of education for that job, of course it can't go to the next step just because he has years of training. For example, I can see that here these medical professions are very popular to compare, but no nurse working in a surgical block is going to enter surgery. Our amendment, of course, is not in the concept, as you say, of the law, but we tried to raise that concept a little bit more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21521	The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21522	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs, the proposed legislative solution gives the right and persons who have completed specialist vocational studies for a total duration of at least four years to obtain a first-row licence. These aren't academics, they're not basic studies. This article gives rights to persons who have completed specialist vocational studies for a total duration of at least four years to project from the field of geodesy. Viewed from the corner of the Engineering Chamber, this can also be verified, that only the faces of geodetic professions with graduate academic studies, i.e. with basic studies of at least four years, can carry out designing and performing geodetic works, i.e. they can obtain a design performance license, and the faces of the geodetic profession with basic academic studies, specialist studies, or basic studies for three years, which include specialist studies for a total duration of at least four years under Article 6(1) may only be performed by geodetic works, i.e. they can obtain a performance licence. There's another precedent in engineering hierarchy. Again, someone who spent less time at school is rewarded. We do not need EU standards for legal solutions in engineering affairs. It can be solved and it should be constant without looking at those norms without these solutions being made by an emergency procedure. This is not according to EU standards, but beyond all norms in the field of any type of engineering work. I wish they had copied some of the solutions from EU law. Working on the Amendments and Law Supplements proposal, I'm sure people with first-class licenses participated, so I still don't understand why they're degraded, not just themselves, but their profession, school? After all, it is not a problem for a failure in existing legislation, but for a lobbying attempt to exercise rights that do not belong to it. The goal is to fulfill the wishes or make promises. The worst part is that this amendment and supplemental proposal comes to a small door, as the professional public is not familiar with this and there has been no public debate, which will not be missed next to the EU. If it had been shown in public, it would never have come to the government. They use words all the time – investment, faster obtaining a building permit, faster accessing data, updating, standardisation, no experts, no work, no leaving. Is that right, and does this proposal give us solutions? I don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21523	Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 6th Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Obradovic and Ivan Jovanovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milan Lapčević, Bojana Bozanic and Aleksandar Pejcic together submitted to the 6th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21524	I thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Ministers, the MPs, as you can see, Mr Minister, the DSS MPs are extremely active and we have proposed these amendments to the concept of seeing the arrangements of this area. This amendment as well as the amendments to Article 4 are complementary and complemented, they speak of the same thing, i.e. about the protection of the profession. With this amendment, we wanted to protect the profession, we wanted to protect our education system. All over the world, all those who finish academic studies, even in this area, can count on the first-class license. This member of the law does other things. It allows all those who have completed vocational studies, or higher school, to also get first class licenses from this area. A little while ago, my colleagues were talking about engineering chambers that predict that only people who finished academic studies could get a first-class license. All the other school graduates, the most they can get is a second-class license. In that context, first of all, we want to send you a message that you too will consider this amendment. In fact, when you figure things out analoguely, my colleague Milica Vojić Markovic talked about it, according to this logic and nurses will be able to prescribe therapy and deal with perhaps surgery, or perhaps, lawyers who have a degree and who have finished higher, can be judges, prosecutors, lawyers. This way, Mr. Minister, we wanted to protect you, your profession, engineers. We wanted to protect all those who completed their academic studies. I think it's enough for everyone who protects the right values, that's enough for everyone who's finished the mega, turbo, giga college, who's standing up like a ribbon. We have an inflation of personnel, Mr. Minister, when it comes to personnel from these schools. It would be good to consider this amendment, the amendment of the opposition and other MPs, and to accept, so as not to devastate Serbia's education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21525	Anyone else want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milan Lapčević, Bojana Bozanic and Miroslav Petkovic together submitted the 7th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21526	Thank you. In Article 7, we suggested, it is entirely in agreement with what colleagues have been saying so far, which is that the job carrier in the geodetic organization cannot be the person of the geodetic profession with the least completed high school, but that we must certainly add – the least of which within that organisation must be one with the geodetic licence at least the second row, as one transitional solution. Given that we have defined and absorbed, when we have spoken in principle, that we are adopting amendments to the law in order to imitate certain practices in EU countries, this is certainly not a standard in countries in the environment, nor in EU countries, to lower criteria and thus to organise geodetic organisations, in this way, by reducing these criteria and conditions that someone can function as a geodetic organisation, that is to do certain tasks, that it will affect something good. It will certainly affect the quality of these services, but negatively. I am very sorry that today people in power often repeat the words – the EU, the EU, the application of EU standards, etc., that they, after long repetition, think it is true and thus think that the law is already being applied by themselves, regardless of what we have done in particular. The fact that we do not know what we are concretely adopting by law itself and what this is related to EU practice is certainly another pair of gloves. I think, Minister, if you've been punishing people before, and you haven't given me an answer why you've done it in the Municipality of Chattine, you've punished some people in the ministry for some irregularity, which I haven't known for many years in the Municipality of Chatin, nor have I tried anything to find after that conversation, then you should also punish the people who gave over 4.5 acres of land a few days ago in the center of Zlatibor to private persons, which is a state and municipal country, skipping certain legal regulations and skipping public exposure procedures and returning to the re-processing of certain requirements. I think you should first of all deal with the protection of state property in all municipalities and local self-government, not with the makeup of certain provisions of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21527	The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21528	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Let me repeat once again that in 2009, when we discussed the State Prime Minister and Cataster Act, the DSS required that certain criteria be simplified for the issue of a geodetic licence. We've shown what kind of trouble that's going to cause. Of course the proposed solution isn't good. It's not good because a first-class geodetic licence can only be obtained by a person with completed academic studies, or colleges, and not by persons with higher or professional studies. Mr. Minister, as an engineer, I assume as a member of the Engineering Chamber, tell me in which area, in which area does a person who doesn't have a graduate college get a license? Another problem that's happening, because, we're going to come up in this way, you're even trying to get those college people, with higher professional equipment, or with the middle in certain segments of this law, to even it out. How is that person going to be responsible for his job, unless he can be charged with a fine if he does his job unprofessionally and makes some mistake, because we can't get his license? It is an absolutely unacceptable solution to equalize people who have spent a great deal of their lives in perfection, in their education, regardless of what has cost them a lot of time, money and nerves. So let's separate, in a way, people with different professional devices, not to degrade them, but to keep the waist leading the main word. That's why we've made a proposal for this solution, so that at least these other-class people can do this job, and not make it possible, without the intention of insulting, high school kids to do some work they didn't study for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21529	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Milan Lapčević, Bojana Bozanic and Aleksandar Pejcic together submitted the 8th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Bojana Bozanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21530	Thank you. In Article 8, we proposed that Article 1 be deleted. It refers to an existing member, a member of the 18th law in force, where we mention that the geodetic organisation is obliged to remove certain irregularities in the inspection process, and it is added: "and expert supervision". We don't think that's necessary at all. In the spirit of what I've talked about before, so the changes just for the sake of change, we don't think it matters, because what kind of surveillance could be inspection if not professional? I don't see the difference between a professional and an inspection. So we're coming back to some changes in shape itself, not essentially. Also, I think this is one in a series of unnecessary changes. Unlike these unnecessary ones, we were able to deal with some of the necessary amendments to the Law on State Timer and Catastrophe, which, for example, refers to the acceleration of the procedures for the issue of certain copies. In a way, we were able to deal with redistribution, for example. workers in the immovable cadastar services and in addition to requests received and processed in such a way as to change the number of workers. What I talked about earlier in the debate in principle, we can pay 50% and 100% and 150 percent, but it won't be worth it if there aren't enough people to do it. Or to introduce two shifts, etc. That would be, for example. There have been some fundamental changes to this Act of State and Catastrophe. I just don't get it, if it's unequivocally and completely clear in Article 18 of the current law, I don't understand why they would change it, but I'm definitely saying, maybe you could deal with some of these fundamental changes that I mentioned. Surely the director of the RGZ is familiar with such problems and I believe that he too would have something to change in that sense, when again probably for the next six months, or eight or nine, we will have the same system law on the agenda with amendments and additions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21531	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Olga Batić. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and Bojana Bozanić. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has a folk letter, Bojana Bozanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21532	We have submitted to Article 9 an amendment concerning the responsibilities of the persons who are the holders of the work in the geodetic organization. So, in the spirit of the concept of the law that we think is very wrongly set, and this is how it is defined that a person without a geodetic license should be responsible for the work done by a geodetic organisation. We really don't think that's right, that it can't be regulated in that way, because if there are certain irregularities, if this geometry does its job unwittingly, the geodetic organization is punished by the provisions of the law by a fine. But what is it, for example? With the withdrawal of the license? We can't take it away if that person who owns the job and who's supposed to be responsible for these proposed changes doesn't have a license. So we don't think this is a good solution. Of course, that person with his license is responsible and thus appropriate. Unless he was savingly doing his jobs, something did wrong, wrong, against the law, so that his license would be taken away. We also propose, in the same amendment, that – certainly when certain documents are certified, they must also be printed with the seal of a licensed geometer, but also with the seal of a geodetic organisation. It's not just an organization that can bear responsibility, because I'm saying, when punishment comes, then in that case, we can't take away anything or ban anything, or take away a license from that geometer, which continues to work, it's just a monetary punishment of a geodetic organization. Only the personal responsibility of this licensed geometer can guarantee the correctness of a document, therefore, not collective but personal responsibility, because it solves it. So I think that this is how we humiliate and reduce the concept of responsibility. It's usually very important in every profession, and everyone in this profession, geodetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21533	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was tabled by National MP Milica Vojić Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21534	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment to Article 9 refers to the duty of the person performing the geodetic work, and I have written an amendment to point 1 of point 4. This is the removal of the geodetic license, seal or ID and the ban on the performance of geodetic works. In the bill of law, you say that a ban from three months to a year will be granted to a person with a geodetic license if he does not perform geodetic works in accordance with this law, other regulations and standards and technical norms. I think that these are really major offenses and major offenses and that it would be very instructive, especially if you look at it from the point of view of the quality of the work and the efficiency of the work, if you only talk here about a unique period of one year. So if we don't make a certain range of penalties in relation to the range of violations and we simply predict here only the possibility of punishing a person for a year, then we would really care about the people who do this job, and I underline that it will be done by people who aren't professional and then, in some way, we have to show them that they have to take very good care of what they do so that this quality of work might remain at some level. On the other hand, in your explanation, you're saying that I'm not following your concept, I just didn't really see it, and you're predicting that there must be a certain range depending on the severity of the crime. It's a very delicate job and it's very delicate to determine this way of punishment. I wish you good luck, but I don't think the quality and what the citizens are supposed to get from this service is going to be satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21535	National MP Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21536	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Directors of the Republic Geodetic Institute, hereby Article 9, shall provide for penalties for a responsible person with a geodetic licence. We have a fine of up to a year for minor violations and a penalty for withdrawing the license and withdrawing the licence for a period of three years if a person with a geodetic licence has confirmed his seal of the elaborate on the works performed and the record of the non-existent changes or untrue data. In this way, RGZ will withdraw licenses from such experts over a period of e.g. Three years. How will the subjects compensate for their damage suffered by such a poorly established factual condition by such a geodetic organization? In principle, it means this - I take the geodetic organization to measure my salary, they do it by deliberately, accidentally entering the neighbor's place and I take the property. With this bill, we will withdraw the license for a three-year period. How will the owner prove later that it's his property? He's a little three years old. It'll take him 20 years to prove for sure that it's not his fault, that it's a mismeasure, and it'll suffer some damage. That's why I think this three-year sentence is very small, because under the Bond Act, I'm sure that neighbor will sue someone else. What happens when geodesic organizations misjudge something? Especially in Negotina is a bad measurement and now we have a garage in the middle of the street. Local self-government needs to make way. He needs a man to tear down the garage, making up for his damage. It can't be the sole responsibility of a geodetic organization to take a license for three years because in this case, while someone proves they're doing harm for someone else, they go through some years. Since you're here, Director, I'd like to point out another problem that exists in the RGZ. The fact is that you local self-governments and municipalities have department heads and it's a public secret that there's a string of department heads and private geodetic organizations. You know that geodesic organizations make a request for catastro data. The Kadastar is obliged to respond to such a request within a certain period of time. I'm not going to name those geodetic organizations. I don't want to name municipalities. The fact is that certain geodetic organizations come much faster to data than some others because individual department heads are also owners of these unofficial owners. When you look at the Agency for Economic Registers, you won't find their names and are actually the owners of such private geodetic organizations. In that sense, you would do well to look for the data – at which speeds in local self-governments correspond to the requirements of geodetic private organisations and do they all get day by day or by day in five, seven or 15 days?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21537	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21538	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree in part with this amendment to increase the fines for those persons who participate and make mistakes in geodesic works. In particular, I find the last position interesting - especially from the position of the 1st member: a person under Article 17 of the Sixth Law is responsible for the performance of the works of the cadastrian classing, installation and commercial land assessment. These are agricultural experts who will participate in the performance of the bonding, the commercial land assessment, etc. It's those responsible faces. In paragraph 4, we have three months to one year, and in point (2) of point 4, three years, a person who certified with a geodetic licence his seal of the embossed geodetic works and the record in the executive review of non-existent changes or untrue data. So, for more severe punishments, since I come from a municipality where this has been done extensively, and there are well-known cases of land replacement where various experts participated in the assessment, so we changed the land along the highway for the worst land in the most devastationed village, so for some chiprags, where land bonuses, certainly the quality of the land does not correspond to the land that was obtained. In particular, it is in danger of state property that is in a disaster, and Kać is the best example of how state land is located, if it is located in a nice and convenient place, by the highway and if it is still near a city, then this agricultural land becomes a target of various, as it is popularly called, tycoon, different persons whose appetites for illicit profit in business with the state grow from year to year. Thus, it is common knowledge that this replacement was carried out in Kač. There was also an answer to one of my parliamentary questions, where the land in India along the highway, which was on state property, thanks to some estimates, became the subject of an illegal exchange, i.e. for one land that was far more valuable as agricultural land and was on the side of the highway, a completely different land was given, and the Law on Agricultural Land was introduced. The persons who have done so are not, of course, punished by nothing, nor will they be punished, given that it is a man who always makes good money in business with the state. So I agree, in part, that these penalties should be lifted, but as far as I can see in response to the amendment, it agrees that there must be some range between the least and the greatest punishment, so I'm saying that in particular this is in Section 6. - agricultural experts who, in the course of bonitating and commercial land assessment, are to be punished as strictly as possible. Since, let's say, at 101 acres of land if it's on the highway, if you replace it, if the president of the municipality is a friend, if you do all that, if you're all sent, if all the employees who influence it are sent on vacation to Kopalnik, then that 101 hectares, the former financial director of one party, who now has 3%, earns between 20 and 30 million euros. So the wealth of those who were rich continues and the possibility to do so continues and future through various land replacements, through various geodesic works, through the catasters of immobilities is great and it is a public secret that since there has been no land books in courts, ever since all of this has gone to the cadastre, that registrations, or cataster registrations in some places, are very suspicious. I therefore agree that these fines, in my opinion, and for three years the loss of a license is very little, given that those who benefit from this land, in the way I have already described, gain the property benefit that, in the case that I have questioned, has been reduced to 20 to 30m euros, so if you get a good U.S.A. if you do all this well, if you find someone who will judge that the land that you are giving is the same value as it is, if someone does, then the state is at risk of a private person, or various entrepreneurs, are not caused by anything, so they are not worth any material benefit, which is measured by tens of millions of euros. I cited an example of Katia, and I cited an example that happened in India, and where I received an answer to the parliamentary question I had raised. That answer is not complete, but it shows that what I'm saying is done now. I advocate that these experts who work at the Geodetic Institute, and as far as agricultural land is concerned, be punished most adequately. As far as I can tell, they will be subject to this second sentence of three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21539	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banovic and Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21540	So this is the third amendment to the same article, which comes from the DSS MPs, to different parts. You're changing the entire current 19th member of this article to talk about the duty of a geodetic worker. You see, that's what the law says, that geodetic works performed by a geodetic organization are responsible for those works in the geodetic organization. If the person does not perform these works in accordance with the law, the RGZ will withdraw the licence, stamp, ID and prohibit the execution of these geodetic works. We know that they will also be registered in a register that should be or is public, and where they will be seen exactly to whom the license and banned works have been taken away. However, who is responsible for the damage caused to the third party i.e. the user's service? In this we see that there is an end to the punishment for that person, and for the geodetic organization in which he works. So, the license is withdrawn, for what period is it going to be? We've heard it's a really short period of three years. What problems these third parties have later, or users of services, when these works are performed unprofessionally. We suggest adding a new position 7 to this Article 9. — the damage caused by the third person to perform geodetic work by the responsible person referred to in Article 1 shall be the responsibility of the geodetic organisation in accordance with the law. In order to have some measure, let me say, and a threat to all those geodetic organizations where unprofessional people work, I am now talking about these people who are unprofessional, who are going to be deprived of the license, all the damage they cause by such unprofessional business and work will be responsible and will have to compensate for the damage. You will see that these organizations, and for God's sake, and people who work in them, will be more responsible for their obligations and will professionally do their jobs. I know this is part of it, and probably all, the subject of bond law and that law. However, we have some other examples, some of the other laws that have passed through this congregation, which directly pointed out who will be responsible for the damage itself, regardless of the things that have been solved by bonds. I think you should have accepted this amendment, because it would have contributed to the better work of organisations and individuals.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21541	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojic Markovic and Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21542	I spoke earlier about what will be published on the websites, that is to say that there will be a register on issued licenses for the work of geodetic organisations, on the licenses of persons employed in geodetic organisations, etc., and that there will be information about who the license has been withdrawn, banned from the performance of geodetic works, etc., that this register will be run by the Office and that it will be publicly available on the Institute’s website. What does our amendment consist of? In adding another position that reads – that access to the register on the website of the Institute is free of charge. It's true that, it seems to me, Article 20 has a lot of things that are going to be, or which are, the release of payments under the old law, and now a taxi and it's true that this is part of that geodetic information system, that register, at least that's how it should be, but nowhere in the word -- the register itself. I don't think there's any harm in standing in this article, when it comes to keeping a register, that it says that this register will be free of charge. Now I'm using the past tense because if this is going to stand, then it's going to be a protection for the future. Because with us, you know, some organization west, or even the ministry, it gets into some material problems of its own, and then it starts to charge a variety of taxes, so as not to improve its own personal economic position, to put it that way. So this should be for some future days, too, that the register will always be free for all users.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21543	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) People's MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Vladimir Marinkovic and Branko Gogic together submitted to the 11th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The word is Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21544	I thank the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the past few days we've heard many times words speak of the salvation of our education. I just want to remind myself that in 2005, following the adoption of the Bologna Declaration, I did not personally or anyone other than Mr. Slobodan Vuksanovic, adopt and propose such a law on higher education, which was then minister of education and sport, and which was changed in certain mild changes in 2010. Therefore, our amendment, amendment of the SDPS, refers to a purely one suggestion, when it comes to the ministry, when it comes to Article 94, which can lead to people who have completed and called professional study specialists being able to refer to both the Constitution and the Law on Higher Education and to create a problem in respect of such a member, and please consider it. I would only comment on what Mr. Ilic was saying, and this is about the deficit of the geometer staff and I appeal that the Ministry finally performs better coordination regarding demands for certain profiles of interest, especially with the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, because in a situation where we have a huge number of unemployed in our labour market, we have definitely many interests that are deficiting in our country. I would agree with colleague Vojić Markovic, to create some kind of clear plan and potential scholarships in poor municipalities that are not much, so that these people can attract employment, and on the other hand that the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development will pay attention and create a clear plan where they will open more places for enrolment, in line with the needs of the economy and the public sector itself, and where this enrolment and number of students who are enrolling will also be reduced in accordance with demand and needs, not that we have one situation where these needs of the economy and students who end their studies in our universities, high schools and universities are fully in proportion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21545	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21546	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, the refusal of this amendment is another evidence of intricacies. In the first place, I repeat and ask again, what does it mean – the amendment is not accepted because it is contrary to the basic concept of the bill? Vlad's representative, this is the attending director of the catastra, on the board he didn't know how to respond. He answered some other questions, but he did not know how to answer the question of a fellow applicant for this amendment. I'm now asking the minister, does he know how to answer - why in all the members of the law is an equal master with specialist vocational studies, according to the Law on Higher Education? Here, it also says here, the reasons for the law being passed – alignment with the Law on Higher Education. You might also be able to ask the Minister of Education, if he is involved in his work at all, to explain to you the Law on Higher Education and that you should fully comply with your law on Higher Education, if that was your intention. Once again I ask you, since I have not found in the full text of the bill this formulation of the concept, the basic concept of the bill, although it writes and what is the constitutional basis and what are the reasons for the adoption and what is the explanation of basic and individual solutions and what financial means are needed for the implementation of the law, and what are the reasons for the adoption of the law under emergency procedure, I did not find that it was written at all what is the basic concept of the bill, I ask you to explain here now – why is the amendment of your parliamentary majority, from the SDPS, not accepted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21547	Thank you. National MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21548	I thank my colleague Senić primarily for the understanding of the Law on Higher Education, but the people who wrote the law have predicted, it is clear in this Article 94rd paragraph 3 that a judicial exam is being sought and implies, in a way, that the judicial exam can be passed and passed by those who have graduated from law schools, the degree of calling a graduate lawyer or master of academic and specialist academic studies. However, the law did not take that right away from those who are completing specialist vocational studies, especially by amending the Law on Higher Education in the coming period, in line with compliance with EU laws, will involve professional master studies. There is a problem in fact, because certain high schools, I checked it out a few minutes ago, have accredited legal directions both on basic professional and specialist studies. Anyway, we can't discriminate this way. In large part of the law is in line with the Law on Higher Education and that is very commendable. That's what I was talking about in the tide. However, in this article of the law, we cannot deny that the right itself is the Law on Higher Education and the Constitution does not allow, when it comes to vocational studies. Whoever passed the law in 2005, he clearly defined it and clearly determined the calls for points and set the levels of study at level one, level two, and level three, so that I do not now explain that part and that aspect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21549	Thank you. 'Does anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 11th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21550	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this member refers to the formation of a commission to expose public data on immovableity and real rights over them. This commission, by the way, forms an office among the members of that commission, you propose to find one person from the order of citizens in the area of the Catastrian municipality, which is being founded by the catastra of immovableity. We believe that it would be much more instructed to delete this and change it, that as a member of the commission a person who is employed in the municipal administration of local self-government, whose territory is founded by a catastra of immovableity. Why do we propose it and why do we think it's better to be someone who's employed in an institution? Because then, apart from the profession, it would have to have an entirely professional objectivity and it is very important to keep this objectivity in place when it comes to these matters, because each citizen will primarily stand up for his interests, for the interests of his neighbours, friends, his fellow citizens, and that will not contribute to the quality or level of service. Therefore, we believe that it is much more important to maintain this objective relationship and to use the objective criterion as a basic. In addition to this, what was now happening at the session, this objective and subjective approach to the Law on Higher Education and so much more needs to be supported and accepted by this amendment, because this objectivity in the work of this Commission, or objectivity in interpreting the Law on Higher Education, will in any case contribute to the quality of work. I fear that poor municipalities are many, that poor citizens are many and that this subjective approach would only contribute to the problems that arise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21551	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojic Markovic and Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21552	Thank you. Therefore, this Article 12 is amended by the current Article 124 of the applicable Law. This article sets out what is an orderly requirement for the registration of rights in the immobility catalogue and what it must contain. Therefore, the content of the orderly application. There are several points in that first attitude. Otherwise, the Proposer changes this point 1 so that it reads – the request contains information about the applicant's request. Be careful what's erased. The name, name and name of one parent, address, unique home number of citizens, i.e., name, seat, address and home number of applicants, is deleted. This really seems a little illogical to us, that you have replaced what the basic data is with four words - the data on the applicant's request. So the name and last name, the unique birth number, etc., the seat of the legal person, that is indeed the basic data. You, in your explanation, say you've changed it since these data can also be delivered during the procedure. Then it can be concluded that you will accept someone's request, even if someone does not tell you, or does not deliver their name and name, because you have filed all this information under the applicant's information. Can you accept a request where the name and last name of the person asking to be entered into the cadastre?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21553	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21554	The reason why this amendment is rejected is because the proposed solution is more appropriate. I think whoever wrote this argument is making fun of this assembly. That's how you want to simply ignore the work of the MPs. If we have made an effort to give more than 60 amendments to only 30 members of the law and to correct this unserious and unprofessional law to the greatest or most possible extent, please give us at least the real reasons why some amendments are not accepted. You keep asking us to participate. Well, to give a part in the work and the writing of the law, so that you can answer us -- what you're proposing is not appropriate. It doesn't make sense. I repeat, this refusal of all amendments is the result of a vanity arising from intricacies. Please, like your other colleagues, do not come here to defend reasons such as - the proposed solution is more appropriate, or - the amendment is contrary to the basic concept of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21555	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 14th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21556	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 14 provides that, at the request of the Bureau, the authority responsible for the overture of the contract shall deliver to the Bureau a copy of certified purchase contracts and lease contracts, and all for the purpose of assessing the value of immovable property. Of course, it only applies here to that property that's listed in the immovableity pad. But indeed, when the law was first passed, this law whose amendments and additions we are now making, and then this interpretation was quite problematic and there were many comments at that time. I don't think this member who's left with anything contributes to the quality of this law. There are other bodies dealing with asset valuations, this should not be done by the institute, and therefore we think that this member is simply the best and the smartest to delete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21557	Mrs. Batic, did you want a word about this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21558	Of course, I will also agree in the voting day to support the amendment submitted jointly by MPs: Donka Banović, Milica Vojic Markovic and Miroslav Petkovic. Since Mrs Vojić Markovic has already explained this amendment, then we could see that the amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in the reasons for not accepting the amendments under number 33, this amendment under number 33 is my amendment, which is not accepted. For Mrs Vojić Markovic, I will read – it is not accepted for a reason because, according to Article 149. The State Prime Minister and Cataster Act, the Republic Geodetic Institute shall assess the value of only those immovableities that are entered in the cadastre and, for those immovableities, be careful, which are not included in the cadastre, and for which a contract on purchase or lease is missing in the archive of the office, the Institute will ask the authority responsible for the contract's complete request to deliver one copy of the certified contract. I don't know how they're going to ask, but I don't know how if the copies of the contract are lost or if the archive is destroyed, but the only way to answer that question is to give us an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21559	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Olgica Batic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Bojana Bozanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21560	I would refer to this previous story of my colleagues. So, I really don't think it's appropriate to change this Article 152 of the existing law, where it is said that the authority responsible for the overture of the contract should definitely, under the official duty to send these sales contracts, precisely for the reasons stated by counterpart Batic, but certainly doesn't understand why the office would now require in certain cases, and not in certain cases. Despite a small number of employees per local station office, which we have already talked about, these officials should now consider whether they should be looking for a contract somewhere, and whether they should not seek somewhere and on what principle they will look and who will seek whether they have or do not have that contract. So I think for a number of reasons, on different sides, you should definitely accept this amendment. We really think it's more meaningful based on all these parameters. Simply, you should know, as colleagues have said, that we MPs, as I suppose the Ministry and Minister and Director of the Republic Geodesy Institute, want to improve existing legal solutions and improve this entire area, so that we are here on the same mission, in the same direction and so should be observed. You should certainly consider that some of our amendments that go in the right direction should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21561	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Olgica Batic submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21562	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment to Article 15 and suggested that Article 158, i.e. point 6 of this Article be deleted. It is explained that the amendment is not accepted for the reason why a solution is proposed in accordance with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act. We have seen the changes and additions of the Law on the Budgetary System, and if they will continue to go that way and thus change, here, then I have an immediate proposal, since we are all talking about the reconstruction of the Government, which is that Mr. Ilic's colleague, Mladjan Dinkic, resigns immediately. Then we can talk about the adoption of some amendments, noting that, as Mr. Ilic said in the debate, amendments are in line with the laws and that criticisms change laws. I don't think either one of us is standing or fitting anything like that to any authorised proposer to be here for us, the MPs of the Parliament, to be present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21563	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted together to the 19th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21564	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Article 19. The bill reads: "For services provided by the Institute, a tax is paid" and in paragraph 3. "Taxes are determined by sublegal law by the Institute." In the principle debate, I set an example of how this problem was addressed by the previous government, which adopted a regulation on which all those who wanted to solve their problem urgently, to get through the order a service to be provided by the Republic Geodetic Institute, must pay a fee 100% higher. It was likely the idea to patch up the budget gap in this way, and in practice it proved that the pockets of some individuals were probably filled on the basis of that provision. I repeat, the Anti-Corruption Agency has reacted to this and the Constitutional Court, which otherwise does not do what should be done and does not address the essential issues for the country's territorial integrity and sovereignty, but has nevertheless dealt with this regulation and declared it anti-constitutional. Now we come across a similar solution again, with the Institute's mandate this time and we have provided for a deadline in which the Republic Geodetic Institute should adopt this sublegal act by proposing its amendment. The explanation we received from the Government is that the amendment is not accepted because the deadline for the submission of the sublaw is determined by amendments to the Budgetary System Act. That is the problem, which is probably the law on the budget system, which is probably the law most often broken by the previous one, and also by these governments. We have recently made changes and additions to this law, and I remind you, Mr. Minister, in that law, that the height of public debt is at a maximum of 45% of gross social product. Somebody tell me in this room or anywhere, whether he's in finance, economics or economics, what is the level of public debt, is it less than 45%, as it stands in law? We're all aware that she's over 60%. So, if there are already some, let's say, cosmetic changes to this law, if we change the order of words in a sentence, if we change the members in which we delete that name and last name, rather than that the data of the applicant will stand, if you are equating high professional equipment, higher and medium in certain sectors, let us specify something. Let the law determine what is clearly not respected under other laws. The easiest thing to say – it's already regulated by regulations, but it's not applied and it's been going on for years. I therefore propose that this amendment be adopted, in order to care for the path of such behaviour and to oblige the RGZ to adopt a sub-legislative act within a certain time period, and I hope that it will not be the same as the previous government did, so that the Constitutional Court again declares in two, three or four years on this issue as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21565	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21566	Thank you. This Member of the Law provides that services provided by the Institute shall be subject to tax and the amount of that fee shall be determined by the Office. The fact is that amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act have been made clear that such fees need to be agreed by the finance minister by 31 March at the latest. Dear Ministers, does this mean, since 31 March has long passed, this law and these amendments have not entered into force, that the Republic Geodetic Institute, since it has not been able and has not obtained the consent of the Finance Minister within the prescribed deadline, will not charge taxes to citizens, economic operators for the services provided, from today until 31 March of the following year? We know that the Republic Geodetic Institute was charging compensations until maltene yesterday, which he had no right to. Or, contrary to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act, will the law and the Republic Geodetic Institute continue to be charged with taxis? Since you're sitting next to the Director of the Republic Geodetic Institute, and they, as an office, need to write the cab height, I have to ask that one more question - will the taxi proposal be higher than the existing fee or lower? In the LDP, we believe that you, as director, need a finance minister to propose a lower amount of fees for providing services to the Institute, compared to the fees paid by citizens so far. I'll explain why. It is certain that the Republic Geodetic Institute should carry out significant work over the next year, especially in connection with the registration of property rights over buildings built without a building permit. In principle, you said there were about 650,000 items that you had already received from local self-government. The current fee or fee is about 100 euros, about. On this basis, in the state budget, the Republic of Serbia's budget should account for 65m euros. But, a tax of 100 euros or 9,000 dinars, 10,000 dinars is very large for the citizens of this country. You will agree, Minister, that your coalition partner did not make a pre-election promise, and this year we did not have 11 billion euros in investments promised by one party, the ruling party, of this government. The fact is that we have a million unemployed in this country, that since August 1st, it's been collecting electricity by 11%, it's already collected food, and it's going to be expensive again. So how are these citizens, these 650,000 that you just received from local self-government, going to pay a fee like it's been so far? So they don't have the money for it. A salary in Serbia, in local self-government, for all private workers is somewhere between 15 and 20,000 dinars. Half their salary should be paid, those citizens, just for that fee. I think you'll agree with me, Minister, that of these 650 thousand items, that at least 90% of the subjects of those citizens who barely patched up the end, so they did without permission and built their own living quarters. They're not rich people's objects, because there must be 10%, and 90% of them are the poorest citizens. If the RGZ were to propose a lower fee to the finance minister, I think these citizens could pay, and that would secure income in this empty budget, in this bottomless hole that we have at the state level. If you put a fee like this, the citizens won't be able to pay it, you won't be able to enter property rights, nor will you have income in the budget, nor will the citizens finish their jobs. So other than these 650 thousand items, you know that the Law on the registration of property rights also gives opportunity to those who have not applied for legalization in local self-government, to apply themselves, their object to the catastra of immovableity and there is a period of one year. You'll have at least a million cases like that, but still from those citizens who can't pay. I therefore believe that the Director of the RGZ should take into account the economic situation of citizens in Serbia when establishing the price proposal, i.e. a taxi and when sending it to the agreement of the finance minister, and that these fees are lower than those which the RGZ is charging today. Please, Minister, answer my question whether the RGZ will charge citizens something by 31 March of next year, because this would be contrary to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21567	Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Slobodan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21568	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Directors of the RGZ, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have held in principle a number of positive solutions and good solutions that this law has drawn up. There we also made this observation about taxis and services. We believe that it would be more desirable for RGZ fees and services to regulate the Government by its regulation, instead of doing so now by sublegal acts, rules, orders and instructions of the RGZ. Both solutions are possible and both are in the spirit of the law. We think this solution, our solution would be better, for two reasons. The first reason that an automatic member of the 25th would be deleted from the law would be no need for it. Secondly, we think that it is better that the parent's distance defines these assets that the previous speakers have made. I think she's saying, "When you're sued, the cadiya judges you," with this distance, if you would transfer this to the government's jurisdiction, it would be more desirable, simpler and celibate to meet these obligations. It would not depend on the will of individuals, those who provide services to charge them, to determine the amount of charge, but to do so by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21569	Anyone else want a word? (No) Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible, but the longest until the end of the search in the details of the first item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Crossing and Catastrophe. Now I'm setting a regular break and we're working on it at 15.00 hours. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Obradovic and Ivan Jovanovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter Bojana Bozanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21571	Thank you. I just wanted to point out one correction here. I believe the people who wrote the argument, the experts on this law, simply overlooked something. So, colleagues suggest adding the 7th position here within this article, which says – for the purposes of drawing up a plan and urban document, municipalities, provinces, ministries, get without paying a fee, all that is needed from the catastra. However, it states in its explanation that this is already defined by Article 174, paragraph 5. If you can see and if you know, Article 174 has been amended and it no longer states that it is the duty of the catastra to give local self-governments and provinces to these topographic, catasteric plans, etc. So we think that really if this was an oversight to pay attention and we think that this should definitely be part of the law. We know it's necessary to make plans for all local self-governments. This activity was initiated by the obligation of all local self-government, first to make spatial plans and plans for general regulation for the centres and seats of their municipalities. I don't know if it's over, but it's certainly very important for the price and for these revenues and for the general government, that's all state-owned, common, meaning catastran and municipalities and so on, that this doesn't have to be paid. It is also quite similar with the previous amendment, so I will take advantage of the opportunity to think that it should certainly stand that - the Republic of Serbia and the autonomity of the province and the units of local self-government and their bodies and bodies, are being released from paying taxis for these performances, i.e. to register immovableity in their property. In an explanation, it is understood, and of course, it is thought that all office jobs will not be taxed and that this is understood. We know that in laws very little is meant and I think it should be decidently stated, because so far there have been different interpretations, precisely in paying this fee, specifically for these topographic plans. So I think this is a very important thing. Exactly what the minister was saying when he explained the law, which is that we need to improve co-operation between the attractive authorities and all those services that work in the public interest, so that means, and municipalities, but also the RGZ and the immovable cadastre services. I think these two amendments are good and they just explain what should be in the law, and I think we should accept them.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21572	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Bojana Bozanić and Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has a folk letter, Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21573	Article 23 of this Act, amending and supplementing the Law on State Crossover and Cataster, amends Article 178 which says, or adds, that the license of a geodetic organisation, the responsible person, or the person who performs geodetic works, which does not have to be licensed. I don't know if it's an oversight, I don't know how to withdraw a license that doesn't have a license, and it wasn't planned to have it at all. So, a responsible person, as we have already mentioned in the long previous amendments, is certainly the face of the geodetic profession that has been licensed for these works, hence a licensed geodetic engineer and that it is certainly not a practice, and I said, in EU countries, it is necessary to pay attention to these things in order not to be missed and not to follow us, so as not to follow standards in EU countries, and I think that would be a big problem. So I ask you to pay attention to how and how this law will be applied and whether it really agrees with modern European standards in terms of this number of people who, or people with certain education, middle or high, are authorized to be the bearers of work in geodetic organisations. I understood in the explanation that when there wasn't enough room in the RGZ and similar state services, and those people with high school who had studied like that had to leave and now they don't know how and how to make a living. Then the ministry decided to relax certain conditions for opening geodetic stores, which I don't think is good. I think that responsibility, and the very notion of a licensed and higher education engineer, is somehow losing its meaning. So, yet I think you should think a little bit more about how to regulate the way you work on a particular territory, so where you get more requirements, where there's more traffic going on, where the cadastre service has more obligations, to sort out these problems, a little bit better. The market speaks of geodetic actions, or the market shows whether to open a shop somewhere, it does not depend on the size of a municipality and the like, people come, normally for money, for profit. So where there's a lot of construction, where there's a lot of traffic, where the middle develops, there's definitely a lot of geodetic shops. There are enough licensed engineers, and of course I talked about it in principle, so that in the right way and by conducting the right education policy we can increase the number of people in the geodetic profession. So, to help them through scholarships to study construction colleges, geodesy departments, make them bound by certain conditions, if we scholarship them to return to these less local self-governments and work there. I think it's one great way to regulate it, I'm sure those kids would rather define that they're doing something like that. So I ask you to think about it and just ask yourself if this is really what we are making in this law, and this is how we reduce the criteria, really European practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21574	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21575	Although I personally did not submit an amendment to that member of the law, in the voting day I will support the amendment that my colleague explained, which was submitted to Article 23. It's a proposal for a state-owned measure and a disaster law. What I am going to ask this occasion, Minister Ilic, is that every time a debate is discussed either in principle, or in particular, that in an explanation that some amendment is rejected, words such as – the amendment is no longer accepted because it is contrary to the basic concept of the bill. That concept, of course, we didn't understand. We are in the vast majority of this House. Or explanation – the amendment is not accepted because the proposed solution is more appropriate. You know, for the writing of amendments, many of us work, and that's why I don't think authorized proposings should underestimate us. Someone is reading this law, someone is consulting with people from the profession, people who understand this matter very well, and only then write amendments and give very exhaustive explanations, and when the amendment refuses you with one single sentence, because it does not comply with some concept of the bill, which remains unknown again, or because the proposal of the promoter is more acceptable, I think it kind of offends all of us as MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21576	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 24th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21577	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, I'm only going to say one sentence in favor of what my colleague Bojana Bozanic said. I didn't want to answer, take the time, but when it comes to fees that are meant to be, in practice, it seems quite different, rather than what is written in the laws and what is meant. For many users of social assistance, it is impossible to reach their social assistance, since they need confirmation that they have no property over any property they can obtain in the catastrophe. The law stipulates that they shouldn't pay a tax on it. Unfortunately, they are asked for such a tax, so that what is meant and what is written in some law does not always have to be applied. Now let me move on to this amendment to Article 24, which actually changed that article 179 in the law, which is changing. It refers to the conditions of the professional and working experience of the inspector that should lead to the control of the work of geodetic organisations. In point 1 of this Article, the terms and conditions relating to the tasks of inspectors shall be inspection of geodetic organisations. In the following attitude is added another part relating to the conditions to be met by the inspector of the issue of cartographic publications and in fact here are the precise conditions which he should meet when it comes to internships, i.e. previous work experience and professions. In this first case in paragraph 1, this is all in accordance with the Law on Higher Education and there's nothing to add, but now, when it comes to this second position, I have to read you what you wrote in the law. Therefore, the tasks of inspectors in inspection of the work of a geodetic organisation may be carried out by a geodetic profession with master studies, specialist academic studies, i.e. basic studies for at least four years, in accordance with the rules applicable until the date of entry into force of the Higher Education Act, specialist studies for a total duration of at least four years, or 240 points, passed by a state expert examination and working experience of at least seven years. I really didn't recognize why it was taken just seven years? What's so important about the seventh year that it's only seven years apart or there's another painting missing? In the position of the 2nd Inspector's work in inspection of the issue of cartographic publications, he may carry out the face of a geodetic or geographical profession with master's studies, specialist academic studies, or basic studies of at least four years in accordance with the rules applicable until the date of entry into force of the Higher Education Act, specialist studies of a total duration of four years, again those 240 points, passed by a state professional examination and working experience of at least seven years in the profession. I don't understand why it's been taken exactly seven years. We thought it was much more instructive to say it was five years. It's some kind of intersection. For five years, it's minimum for these conditions to be met and that a man can work as an inspector, but now there goes that second explanation. Since my colleague Batić noticed that you have two kinds of reasons, I have a case of this second explanation – the amendment is not accepted because the proposed solution is more appropriate. I'd really like to get an answer as to what's more appropriate than having someone for seven years? What's going on in the seventh year of the internship? I'm more than seven years old, so I'm just curious why seven years were taken as a measure?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21578	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21579	Thank you. It is completely unclear why the government of the Republic of Serbia has rejected this amendment. It takes seven years, under the bill of law, for the inspector to have a job internship. That's not the condition that a director needs either. For example, for the head of the school, a condition is sufficient for five years of employment, for the head of the municipal administration five. I suppose it's enough for the director of the RGZ to have five years of work. Then why does the government feel that the inspector should have seven years of employment? If we want quality, I think we can get that quality with five years of work experience and it is completely unclear why the Government of the Republic of Serbia has rejected this amendment. Minister, you haven't answered my question and I'm really asking you to answer my question whether the GZ will charge taxes to citizens and businesses, since, by law, there is no right until 31 March of next year?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21580	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21581	The Honorable Chairman, as far as this amendment is concerned by her colleague, I don't think five years is enough for the work and tasks of an inspector. As the previous MP said, it is necessary, when comparing it with schools, for the head of the school for five years, but for an inspector in education and education it takes a little more, even in the geodetic profession. So, people with a certain knowledge, with a certain experience, would be better off for more than seven years, but it was probably considered that geodetic professions, as the minister said, are not exactly on the market. It's better that it's more than less. I suppose the legislator was in that sense, and he was in charge, with that principle. In voting day, I will not support this amendment. I think in the whole of the law, they're doing some things in the debate this morning, like in the sense that we have experts now. We don't have them, and that's the problem with the geodetic profession, but that doesn't mean that we can now give certain benefits. I find it strange that some MPs did not understand the spirit of this law. Three things are important that I don't want to talk about, because in the opening part, when we talked about the law at all, it was really said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21582	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21583	I will agree with my predecessors, counterpart Milica Vojic Markovic and Radmila Gerov. I also don't understand why it takes at least seven years of work in the profession, not some less years. If we're going to go to some analogy, well, here's what I suggest is that we introduce these seven years in the profession with amendments and additions to the Government Act, let's say that the resolution ministers also have seven years of work in the profession. I think we'd be more objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21584	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Parliamentarians Dusan Obradovic and Ivan Jovanovic submitted together to Article 24 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Radoslav Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21585	I would support my colleagues' amendment. What is said in this amendment? In Article 24 paragraph 1, following the words "High Education Laws", the words "basic academic studies for a total duration of at least four years" are added, and after the words "scheduled by a state expert exam" are added: "prescribed for that education". The explanation is that adding the words "basic academic studies of at least four years" has the same explanation as in earlier amendments, and adding the words "prescribed for this education" determines the level of the state exam, as it differs for the different levels of geodetic vocational education". In the government's explanation, this amendment is contrary to the basic concept of the law, which I don't understand. Nowhere in the world, not to repeat myself, in the environment and in the EU, an engineering company, and this is an engineering job and I speak for engineers, cannot do a job without having an employee with an appropriate license, whether design or performance, depending on what he does and in accordance with the law. In Germany, for example, he is the holder of entrusted business in the area of national diameter and catastra someone who graduated from high school, college, academic studies in the field of geodesy and is called a public geodetic expert. That, of course, can be checked. The next thing you know, what about the 400 geodetic organizations that have reregistered and adapted to legislation, and the re-registration cost? Would the RGZ employees allow themselves to equalise high and high school, higher and higher school? Of course not. You'd probably be a strike and you'd be looking for your rights. Private geodetic organizations, unfortunately, cannot strike. There is an ugly saying for someone who has graduated from college or higher school, and by his knowledge, by work, he increases the productivity of the institution, the state body, the enterprises – who is to blame for your learning? We must finally stop that degradation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21586	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic together submitted the 25th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 25th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21587	Thank you. This Article 25 is otherwise amended, or complemented by Article 181. That member shall have duties, obligations, or tasks to be performed by the Director of the RGZ and shall have a lot of work to do. There are some 17 in the current law, with it being complemented here by another obligation, so that the director has, in practice, 18 very serious obligations, or duties he performs. We have proposed an amendment to delete point 15. Otherwise, the Director's obligation to determine the criteria, procedure, method and methodology for assessing the value of the immovable property is prescribed at that point. This is an amendment in line with all of our previous amendments, which we dispute, so to speak, monopoly RGZ when it comes to value assessment. We believe that it is the job of other certain state authorities, which are much more professional, have much more data when it comes to the assessment of values and that, simply, the RGZ does not have the opportunity to do it properly and it really does not need to be the obligation of the Institute. When it was this Law, I think it was in 2009, the DSS MPs were also talking about how this law really shouldn't be authorized by the Bureau of Value Assessment. You have also explained for this amendment that it is contrary to the basic concept of law. Earlier, Mr Atlagic said the MPs did not understand the spirit of the law. Here, a few of us are asking you to explain to us what the basic concept of these changes and additions is and Mr. Atlagic to explain to us what is the basic spirit that we have not been able to understand. Speaking of duties and duties and directors of the RGZ and the Bureau themselves, I'd ask Mr. Director, who I know he can't answer here at the tide, but he can tell Mr. Secretary, so he can tell us. Let's just say, my question, which I asked in the tide, quoted some of your statements from one conference, simply asking from which law, from which members of the Institute draws the opportunity to participate in the implementation of otherwise unconstitutional regulation on the special way of processing of data contained in the land cadastre for AP Kosovo and Metohija? Only a few data are repeated from the debate in principle, which is that according to catastrian, land books and data Serbia owns 60% of the property on KIM. We still own these cadastar books from as many as 1,300 catastrian municipalities from KIM territory. And while we have the original books, we can also prove to everyone who needs it to prove that it is property of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. state, private and church property. Again, I ask the question, from what law, or which law allows the Bureau to participate in the implementation of this shameful regulation. Otherwise, you, Mr. Director, it's a question from the debate in principle, you're on June 4th, so about a month ago, when the Sixth Regional Conference on Katastre, Infrastructure, Spatial Data in Belgrade was held, you said that the Institute was preparing a digital archive of cadastral documentation for the KIM area. You also said at the meeting that the RGZ will scan the documentation within a certain time frame and organise a concessional handover of KIM's cadastrian books. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21588	The word is made by MP Marko Atlagic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21589	Since my colleague called me, I have no intention of leading the polemics, just to say that we are in the debate in the Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Law on State Crossing and Cataster, in principle, also told about the spirit of this law and that it is in the Bill of Law. I have no intention of quoting the page to my colleague, I think it's good to read the whole law. I think the minister explained it very well in his opening statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21590	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21591	I have no intention of taking this replica now. I can only tell Mr. Atlagic that I really read this bill, although it's not my profession, because it's insinuated that I haven't read it. I did read it, but I still haven't been able to understand the spirit of the law. Maybe I'm not as smart as you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21592	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21593	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, as well as all the other 44 amendments, and 45, have not been accepted, which is not some great success for those of us who have been trying to read, understand and try to fix the bill, all in collaboration with people who are from the profession. This Article 26. refers to penalties for offences, to a legal person engaged in the issue of cartographic publications, and to penalties for offences for responsible persons. You predicted that sentence in attitude one would be 100,000 in the spirit of the law. We predicted it would be 300 grand. So we increased it three times. Furthermore, in your third position, you've predicted 100,000, and we still think it's really small, because it's a violation of the law and in a very important area, when we talk about the state of Serbia when it comes to the cadastre. We also increased it three times, to 300,000. In attitude 4, you predicted that the person should be punished by a fine of 25-50 thousand, and we increased it to 50-100 thousand. So we handled what we thought was supposed to be the spirit of the law. We felt that the spirit of the law was the quality, efficiency and responsibility of the service and of every employee in that service. That's what the best citizens can tell you about. We also managed another piece called reality. So, everyone who is employed and those who are unfortunately not employed, and many, almost a million, live in reality, know what the conditions are. Indeed, I understand that there are not enough quality and professional people, but I don't think it can be replaced in the way it's proposed in this law. That's why I can't talk about it being the spirit of the law. Because if we interpret it that way, then it's the spirit of the law that unprofessional do professional work, and it can't be the spirit of the law, because then it's not right. So we thought we should protect both those who work both geodetic and other professions that work at the office. But I have to ask a question - and who's protecting the citizens? I wish one of the MPs, who spoke here from the aspect of interpreting the spirits of the law, had a little talk with the citizens on the subject. I'd like to tell you just one cute little example that applies to me personally. So I live in a five-generation house that belongs to my family, each time called Vojic. Someone in the catastra wrote with his own hand that my last name was Vujic and I had to bear responsibility, to correct the mistake of it. That's a little much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21594	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21595	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will support the amendment tabled by colleagues from the Democratic Party of Serbia. With this law, we have increased the wages that are very low in the Republic Geodetic Institute and the Catastro, and with the increase of wages should go up. First of all, I have in mind that in the last year to five years, the cataster of immovableity has become the source of a variety of corruption affairs, so that a certain amount of money can be realised by some private interest, or someone else. So I belong to those who have waited a few years for enrollment. I fall down as a farmer to those who wait in front of the counters, where for years such cases are not solved, and where when a tycoon appears favorite, where to do so quickly, if necessary. So, in addition to increased revenues, which should certainly be provided to workers of the Republic Geodetic Institute, workers working in the cataster, I think that these minimum penalties should also be increased for legal persons, as well as for natural persons responsible for the failures made by the immovable cadastre, i.e. the Republic Geodetic Institute. I think we agree on that, and we're talking too much about pink, so we agree that the catastrus doesn't do everything as well as it should, that we're far from doing it unbiasedly there, that it's done professionally, that it's done objectively. We peasants, I'm the president of the People's Peasants' Party, we're particularly sensitive to geometers, particularly sensitive to the injustices that seem to be, although mostly to the harm of small, ordinary people, and I've already said, in favour of some that most likely have some mechanisms that ordinary people don't have or don't have in those amounts that are expected to be on the counter. Nowhere is smaller than outside the counter, and nowhere feels bigger than behind the counter. I think that's what one of our poets said, and that applies to the catastrophe of the immovableity, or the Republic Geodetic Institute. I agree with the law in most cases, that they need and raise salaries, that it should be professional, that it should increase the number of people, that everything should be done, but I think that the penalties proposed by this amendment, that they should be increased, at least in this minimum amount, the maximum, as far as I can see, remains the same, given that there are indeed various irregularities in the last five years, and there are no more of those land books in court. So all kinds of machinations are allowed, and every day, one of the citizens comes to complain that someone misrepresented it, that he didn't sign up for the plot, that he damaged it. Especially the peasants are that example, that they were damaged in one way or another, that they were damaged by the geometers, that they weren't recorded on time, etc. I think it's about intentional failures, and here it's about the fact that those penalties need to be increased. Thus, in addition to more power, besides more money, it will also increase the responsibility of the prescribed penalties. I think the DSS amendment can be supported from my point of view and these minimum penalties for responsible and legal persons are increased, given the gaps that are still possible in this service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21596	Thank you. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Bojana Bozanić and Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has a folk letter, Bojana Bozanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21597	We have proposed in this article that Article 2 be deleted, and that an entire member be corrected, and all in order not to reduce the conditions for the functioning of geodetic organisations that did not comply with their operations with the provisions of the applicable law, but to extend only the deadline, not to do so here cancelling the cancellation solutions, etc., in any case help these geodetic organisations to meet all those provisions, and not to reduce the conditions and criteria, as I said, and thus degrade the entire profession. We're getting into a situation right now, so it looks like if someone can't meet the conditions, then we're changing those conditions. As this is the last amendment that has also not been adopted, as no previous amendment, I believe that the minister, since he likes to take advantage of the opportunity when all MPs end up talking about everything we've talked about today, to answer some questions and MPs afterwards have no right to answer anything, so that he can literally say whatever he thinks he should at least. I just want to conclude that the bottom line is that we need to solve the problem in the area of national diameter and catastra, not that we're dealing with small things, which I've already said, but that we're essentially dealing with the problem, not thinking about whether it's a fee or whether it's a tax, whether it's inspection and professional surveillance, whether it's the Ministry of Spatial Planning or whether it's the Ministry of Urbanism, which I think is less important, and we need to deal with first of all with the care of the state and stealing of the state. Since we have established that there have been no irregularities in Zlatibor, there have been no problems or shifts, because there have been over 50% of government support for people who have been running local self-government for the past 12 years. So the DSS is in power there in over 50% of citizens' support, which shows, I believe, that we're on the right track and we're going towards the right values. So I ask you, in the absence of any of these problems, that you now solve a major problem that is happening in the territory of the Municipality of Chatin, which is the upsurgence and abduction of the state country in the very center of Zlatibor. It's a country that's very expensive and it's given to private people without any compensation, without payment dinars. I ask you to punish and replace those people who, I believe, without your knowledge in your ministry and other ministries, in general in the state services, have put a signature on one such thing, on one such solution that I have here, that a state country owned by all citizens... (President: Theme. Here's a sentence... All citizens of the Tchaitin municipality give, give, take, and so ask you to react here, because it is the right place to solve this great problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21598	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21599	The reason for the rejection of this last amendment is that it is contrary to the basic concept of the bill, as well as the previous five, six, which I did not want to report on because I want to spare the public of Serbia the constant appeal to the intricacies of the people who wrote this law. You claim to be an expert. So be it, but then you don't respect this home. You do not respect the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because you come up with a reason that the amendment is not accepted because the proposed solution is more appropriate and that you end up with any explanation or reason that the amendment is not accepted because it is contrary to the basic concept of the bill, to put an end without further explanation, is one disrespect for people who wanted to contribute to the adoption of a better law. I'm still saying it's about vanity, which comes from ignorance and intricacies, that you didn't even want to consider these amendments and that the easiest thing to say was that they weren't appropriate. Mr. Minister, it is not appropriate for the National Assembly, which makes all the laws, to disregard the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Tobacco Smoke. Now in the restaurant, you've allowed a member of your parliamentary group to smoke in front of you. (Chairman: Please, Mr. Senic.) I apologize for coming out of the topic, but this is an essential disrespect for parliament. You can give me back my replica and tell me I'm out of the subject. Punish me, I confess, but I defend Parliament. It's just that disrespect for that law is inadmissible. (President: Mr. Senic, and I defend Parliament. So you're talking about the amendment. ) So, in the final word, I would also like to say that it is necessary to bring about serious changes in the law on the cataster, to speed up the procedures that will contribute to a faster solution of the case. I appeal on behalf of all employees under the contract of work and contract at a certain time in the Cataster to call for competitions and hire people where they are really necessary, to speed up the solving of cases and procedures in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21600	The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21601	Dear Chairman, I think you have violated Rules of Procedure and Rule 27. Every time an MP points out a lack of respect for the law, the Constitution, I think that should be a priority in relation to any other discussion. If this Constitution, if this law, if this Rules of Procedure are not respected by the MPs who voted for it, or if they are obliged to comply with the laws passed by colleagues before them, I believe that the MP had the right to point out and that he has the right to point out at any moment. If the MP and the minister violate the law in this assembly, I find it unacceptable and that citizens cannot have an example unless the ministers and MPs respect the Constitution and the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21602	I suppose, Mr. Veselinovic, that you wanted to advertise the Rules of Procedure, but you didn't tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure you're advertising? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Article 27.) Okay, I'd like to remind you of the regulations of the Rules of Procedure that speak only about the subject of the agenda. I would really allow the Rules of Procedure to allow me, but I must warn the speaker that he should speak on the subject of the agenda. The word has Minister Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21603	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to thank you for one cooperation, for the effort you have made, for the amendments you have made and don't mind and don't explain now that parliament is not respected or respected, if some amendment is rejected. You know that the government is making its decision, and this Parliament has chosen the government. I can have my own opinion, but I respect the government I'm sitting in and I'm part of that team. While I'm part of that team, I'll respect the government's decisions. Excuse me, if you've seen. I'm not a sergeant and I'm not a man who notices. Some now light e-cigarettes and show how I'm supposed to shoot and follow them now, but I really apologize to you. I don't want to comment on it right now. (President: Please, Mr. Ilichu, let us not spread the subject. Please. ) Don’t now, whether it’s five years old or seven years old, so someone thinks the inspector should have the most internship and have of the highest calling a little more internship, that he can control some important things. If you say it's wrong, you can run a procedure to change it. Therefore, professional people have worked. They did it the way they did it. You've spoken, made decisions, and in the voting day you'll say yours. It's up to you. I welcome you all and thank you for one extraordinary cooperation. I can say that you've done very well, as our people say, studied the laws and given a lot of amendments and improvements, which is good. Always be like that. We've had our doubts about it, and that's normal. It's a democracy we've all advocated. I'm going to visit Chaetin and Zlatibor, I promised, and we're going to look at it with our people doing it. We'll look at it all and see. I'm glad if it's all right, if it's all right. We'll visit many other municipalities. Once again, not to be too long, thank you for your cooperation. No offense, don't think I'm offended. The opposition has the right to say what they want, of course, according to the Rules of Procedure. We are here to do what we can and how we can, but I am glad that we have had some common views, identical, and that we will do everything possible to make this law good and that Serbian citizens feel that something better is happening in Serbia, especially investors. I still thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21604	The word is Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21605	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising an article. 106th and 107th. Rules of Procedure. Madam Chairman, since you have responded, I will give up some too much comment because even the facts concerning the private lives of others have been expressed. So, who smokes, where smokes, wasn't the subject here. Since you reacted, I'm not going to comment, but I'm surprised what geometric device my colleagues were able to determine that someone broke the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-22-0.u21606	Anyone else want a word by amendment? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We continue our work on Wednesday, 24 July 2013, starting at 10.00 hours.
