ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14024	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that there are 136 MPs present. I would like to remind you that Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly exists when the agenda is established if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 129 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14025	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, SPO and DHSS have since their establishment had this maximum commitment to make our country a member of the EU as soon as possible. Our pledge isn't just rhetorical, it's concrete. In that sense, we have taught the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a lot of draft laws that are not only a condition for our path to EU membership, but rather something that is the need of citizens of Serbia. This assembly adopted the Law on Pressure Restitution, first of all, the European Commission and the EU, but it seems to us with insufficient true will to correct one great historical injustice and what we talked about, when it was on the agenda of the Restitution Act, which is that without substitution, or return in natural form, there is no fair and just restitution. In view of the fact that 95% of the assets belonging to agricultural land, pastures, forests and sluices can now be compensated by the owners through the substitution. On the other hand, a law on the return of property to churches and religious communities was adopted on the proposal SPO in 1992, on which Milosevic vetoed the suspension. Fortunately, however, the law passed later. What puts all former owners who are not compensated by the substitution in an unequal position in relation to churches and religious communities, is that the churches and religious communities were returned to the entire property through the substitution, and that it was not done at the same time under the Restitution Act. This is why we gave the quorum on the day of the vote, because it was a necessary law to meet the European Commission's conditions at the time, but the SPO and the DHS are asking the Ministry of Finance – is it ready to make a working meeting with our MP group, because the time of the economic crisis is very difficult? Under the current Restitution Act, the owners of the seized property, on the other hand, are completely unfounded instead of the substitution of the asset return burden, i.e. the compensation is transferred to all taxpayers and all Serbian citizens. This is another concrete indicator of our desire for true national reconciliation. Let us not forget that the prime minister also welcomed King Peter II Karadjordjevic, but nothing this government has done at returning the seized property to the family of Karadjordjevic. If we are all showing, some with fewer, some with more delays, due respect for the royal family of Karadjordjevic, then we should give them back unfounded assets. On the other hand, we have passed a law on opening the security service file, not only is this a condition of the EU, we think it is also the need for citizens of Serbia, because the experiences of all Eastern European countries show that real changes in one society have only arisen with the opening of the security service file. I ask the Minister of Justice, too, if he is willing to accept at a working meeting our parliamentary group, so that at this working meeting, with the proposed text of the bill, we can find the best solution adopted by this National Assembly and in order to repay the debt, not according to what the EU requires of us, but what it requires of us is justice, truth, honesty and citizens of Serbia. My third question is the government. Our parliamentary group has submitted a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Liability for Infringement of Human Rights or so on. The lustration law. The lustration law was passed in 2003 at the proposal of then-Minister of Justice, Mr Vladan Batic, but its validity ends in June of this year. We believe that the Law on Lustration should remain in force, that it is one of the most serious laws that is the basis for fighting corruption and crime, but also the basis for judicial reform. Since everyone now calls for repentance of sin, the lustration in translation means cleansing of sins. I think there are a lot of people on Serbia's political scene who are really looking for a true cleansing of sins.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14026	The word has the People's Messenger, Zechariah Trnavčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14027	First of all, I want to warn you, Madam Chairman, that you respect the weather. If this session is scheduled for 11:00, then it has to start at 11.00. This applies to all MPs who later came to this room. My question is - will Thursday March 28th be a session from 16:00 to 19.00pm at which MPs will be able to ask the prime minister and ministers questions? In Article 205, that possibility is conditioned by the text if the session is ongoing. I proposed to Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic to adjust the start and duration of the session during the week so that it is not questionable, because we lost our chance in January, February to ask, for me, important questions to the prime minister and to them important issues, concerning the citizens of Serbia. So, the question is, will Thursday, on March 16th to 19.00pm, there be opportunities for us, MPs, to use an important institution of interpretation, which is to ask questions to the prime minister and ministers?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14028	I'll answer to you right away, Mr. Trnavcievich. There will be opportunities for MPs to ask the government on March 28th as the last Thursday of the month. In the words of the MP, Nebojsa Zelenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14029	Dear President, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to ask two questions. These are the ultimate issues of life and problems facing farmers in Serbia, and I think it would be correct to get an answer from the competent agriculture minister very quickly. What's this about? My question is - when will the Ministry of Agriculture start paying subsidies for the Junad, the subsidy for pigs, and the payment of milk premiums? For now, he's five months late with those payments. We have an absurd situation. The existence of our farmers is threatened by the fact that they are now being reached by loans from last year. These loans, due to lack of money, cannot be realised, enter into a blockade, thus obtaining the status of a passive taxpayer and cannot be users of subsidies. We have a situation that on the one hand the state is late with its payments, and on the other hand it's very up-to-date when it comes to blocking someone. In this case, it is those people who bear the greatest burden in this country, or farmers. I think this question deserves an urgent answer. I'd like to ask the Minister of Health a second question. At the last session of the Health Committee, we found that there was a list of medicines and that there were two medications on that list. It's "anzop" and "glivek". Children who have leukemia can't get a cure that helps them with therapy and gives them a good answer to treatment. They can't get it for the reason the Republic Fund only got one kind of cure. If both medicines are on the list of medicines, and the competent Health Committee has adopted and sent a letter to the Republic Fund and to the Minister of Health, I see no reason why this medicine would not be further introduced into the procedure, or therapy, and I am looking for an urgent answer. It's children's lives. So, I request an urgent response from the Minister of Health to plead on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14030	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Slavica Saveljic. Here you go. Please insert a card into the other MP's unit.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14031	Thank you. I want first of all to show respect for the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which, understanding the difficult socio-economic situation and the moment before any purchase of the electricity that is announced, has brought to the Regulation concerning energy-protected consumers, i.e. those families and individuals who, due to existential problems, are unable to bear on their own all costs of using electricity and gas. This may be the first time a regulation has been adopted that will cover a wider number of users than it has accepted and recognised the Social Protection Act. I particularly think it is important that, in the process of adopting the regulation, the consultation of the professional public and that all those objections and proposals, which have been made during the public debate, are accepted and that they are now an integral part of the regulation. My question concerns the application of this Regulation, since it is intended to be applied as of 1 April and the authorities of the units of local self-government receive requests from citizens, as well as to issue assurances on the status of an energy-protected buyer, is the dilemma whether local self-government will receive some closer instructions on the application of this Regulation, whether there will be a unique form based on which the application is made, as well as a form which means the recognition of the right, or any local self-government will do so according to its own opinion? I believe that since it is a unique right, it would be good if there were unique patterns based on which it is done throughout the country, not that every local self-government does so individually. It is also a question – whether there is any thought of facilitating the process and that the competent ministry, by producing an electronic database to which data on electronic protected customers will be entered, allows the competent authorities for the supply of electricity and gas to the quickest and most efficient of these necessary data. In practice, there can be very serious abuses, I say that as someone directly competent in one local self-government to implement this regulation, because the regulation foresees that law is not implemented cumulatively, but only on one basis, which means that the right can also be achieved by those who are not the owners of housing units, which is good, but by a lease agreement. In what way, if there is no single database, will be possible control, because it is certain that the request can be submitted by both spouses, one for gas, one for electricity, with the same lease agreement for housing? Given that the regulation, I repeat, with validity or application of April 1st, it would be good for the answer to be effective and quick so that we could apply what is prescribed in the most appropriate way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14032	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Miljenko Derret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14033	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I don't know if mentioning Megatrend University is automatically subject to a warning, but I'll take my chances. I have a question for the Ministry of Culture that awarded two scholarships for additional education on state spending to Mr Dragan Kolarevic, assistant culture minister and Miroslav Jankovic, head of the office of Culture Minister. So, the culture ministry that doesn't have money for the theatre, abolishs cinematography in Serbia, talks about problems it has in general with the survival of culture in Serbia, has money to educate two of its officials. I think it's absolutely unintended spending of funds and I think it's a very negative message that's being sent to the public, but it's on the soul of the Ministry of Culture. For the first year, 3,000 euros were paid, and that, not to be surprised, was paid to Megatrend University, as the only one in Serbia who can respond to the high demands of topics the two cultural ministry officials will be dealing with. No state university, no other private university has the capacity to meet these high criteria they have. I am interested and ask the Ministry of Culture to answer me – by what criteria has these two scholarship students chosen? Two, to get a list of everyone else who applied for those scholarships and why they were rejected. Of course, one would expect the Minister of Education and the Government to take the protection of the state institution, i.e. those institutions for which they are responsible, such as the Belgrade University and say – give money from the budget to the state university, while he is already squirming in problems. But no, of course, the three ministers in the government are handing over to the university to which the state pays, not to say maybe they're paying back some of the money they got from that university. So it is absolutely unacceptable for the Minister of Education and Ministers in the Government to make decisions in this way that directly harm those who gave their taxes, among other things, and for the development of culture in Serbia and not only those who are patriotic and who are subject to the criteria of Mr Kolarevic. I have no doubt that the State Secretary with a doctorate will be much more competent to make lists of people who are party, political or patriotically inadequate for this country, because that is what he is actually dealing with and that is why I consider this to be a very serious political message sent to the public. Of course, I don't expect this government to send any other message, but I don't think it's good for all of us who live here. My second question is to the Ministry of Finance. Namely, please answer me if there is any mechanism that can guarantee me that no money, any tax I pay will be included in these 3,000 euros given to Megatrend University, which is slowly becoming, as we can see, the leading university in Serbia, thanks to the privileges and protection it has in the current government? My third question, because I have time for it and many will be grateful, I believe, and above all in Zajecar, is when this government intends to introduce, according to regulations and timetables that it itself has prescribed, extraordinary measures in Zajecar? If this is not brought as soon as possible, Zajecar will be completely blocked as a city. I know it's inside a coalition fight over who's gonna be mayor, but I'm asking you to do something about it in the interest of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14034	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14035	I have a question for Health Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. My question concerns cancer prevention, since the month of March is a month of fighting cancer. Before I ask any questions, I'll bring out some very alarming data. According to the National Cancer Register, 21,000 people died of this severe disease in 2011. It is particularly worrying that the rate of mortality is growing faster than the rate of disease. Morality is increased by two and a half times a year, and the incidence of disease is 2%. That's why it threatens us to find ourselves in a situation where the number of newly discovered cases of malignancies and the number of deaths at the annual level is equal. The rate of mortality in Serbia increased by 17% from 2002 to 2011. The latest figures for 2011 show that 33,000 new cases of cancer are discovered annually. The Serbian Cancer Society's data warns that at least 40,000 people will be found at the rate of growth in 2012, and they predict and warn that out of 40,000, 23,000 people could die. Unlike Serbia, in America, Sweden, France has been reducing cancer mortality for a decade and a half, and by 1.5% year-on-year, the incidence of disease has not increased or increased by about 0.5%, which is four times slower than with us. Given the very alarming and warning data, I have three questions for Mrs. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. First, since we have been denied all directions of combat, prevention of cancer and the organisation of oncology services, what steps will the Ministry of Health take to improve prevention, reorganisation and better efficiency of oncology services? The second question – why in Serbia has worked therapy pushed on the periphery of oncology, and with ionizing radiation, 27% of patients are treated, e.g. in France 66%? For cytostatic, 38m euros were spent in 2011. Why didn't we buy 20 ionizing radiation generators for that money and provide radio therapy for the sick over the next 10 to 15 years? The so-called solid tumours, which account for about 95% of all cancers, are for them surgery and radio therapy of primary treatments. I'm asking my colleagues to be quiet. Serbia currently has 12, and is estimated to have 20 ionic chambers. I expect the Ministry of Health to think carefully about the steps they will take on this matter in the coming period. This data is available to all citizens of Serbia. I think we're at risk of an epidemic of this severe disease and it's already the last moment to take some alarming steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14036	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Branko Gogic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14037	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, welcoming the efforts of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management to provide sufficient amounts of regressed fuel, I would like to point to certain difficulties. Similar problems have other municipalities, but today I will give an example of the Vladimirs municipality. This masculine municipality, consisting of 29 settlements, is extremely agricultural. They dominate war cultures, and above all grains. Also, the production of industrial plants is represented, and there are orchards and vineyards. The percentage of the active agricultural population in the total population is extremely high, so agriculture is one of the main drivers of economic development. Therefore, it is clear that the purchase of regressed fuel is an essential item for most locals in the region. Otherwise, the right to regressed fuel, as is known, shall be given to holders of registered agricultural land, which is in active status, and the quantities shall be determined depending on the plant culture per hectare. It is not the first season, however, that residents of the Vladimirs municipality face certain difficulties in obtaining regressed fuel. One of the main problems is the distance of certain gas stations. In fact, it is sometimes necessary for farmers to travel tens of miles [10 km] to a pump that is authorized to distribute fuel. Of course, the distance, in addition to the waste of time, also results in the fuel consumption on the way from the field to the gas station and back, which ultimately means that they use a significantly smaller total of fuel than the one they need. In addition, it should not be ignored that most farmers do not have adequate conditions for transporting fuel, but go tens of kilometers in an improper and risky way. In that sense, I would ask the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management if there is a possibility that regressed fuel is distributed in a way that would reduce the risk of saving money and the time of farmers? This would mean, for example, that with an authorised distributor, the possibility of supplying fuel to tanks closer to places that do not have a gas station nearby would be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14038	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Slobodan Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14039	Dear Members of the People, the President-in-Office, I have two questions. One question is why does the government complicate and make it difficult for its and such difficult position in the Brussels negotiation process, with Pristina? The second question is why does the government put political pressure on the Constitutional Court of Serbia, not to follow the proposal and the initiative to examine the regulations on the application of agreed conclusions regarding Kosovo? These two questions are connected and I will explain both questions in what I say next. In fact, last night we learned that the state summit decided to elaborate on the platform, they say, to detail, as one position embedded for further talks on Kosovo, which will take place in Brussels on 2 April. In one explanation, the Prime Minister’s advisers said that the government had actually set its minimum requirement. Without any stronger arguments or arguments with more arguments, we can conclude that it is actually a reduction in the requirements of these negotiations, which were in the negotiating platform, which was adopted by the Assembly along with the Resolution on Negotiations. So, that's one new thing that must really be said in the Assembly, but, on my question, in any case, it complicates and makes the government's position in these negotiations more difficult, because it simply lowers Serbia's demand for that autonomy or for the self-government of Serbs in Kosovo to unrecognizable, if we compare it to the platform itself. When it comes to the second question, which is related to the first, the basic question is, what about the procedure before the Constitutional Court, about the proposal and the initiative that I mentioned? What exactly is going on here? The Constitutional Court has in some way interrupted its action on these procedures for the simple reason that it was initiated by a single move by the minister of justice, which demanded that it be stopped until a special law on parliamentary autonomy was passed. As far as I know, the Constitutional Court hasn't decided on that. He simply stopped working and is now in one of his working vacuums, which is inadmissible. But a month ago, when a delegation of Serbs from Kosovo visited Belgrade for the Constitutional Court and received them by the secretary of the Constitutional Court, not the president, as they had requested, the Constitutional Court secretary told them that by the end of March this year the assessment of the constitutionality of these regulations would be made. This means that the Constitutional Court was intended to work on this matter, in full compliance with the fact that he did not decide at the request of the Ministry of Justice to stop. However, we are now somewhere at the end of March and we do not see any result. We therefore conclude that the Constitutional Court is still under government pressure. The Constitutional Court is obviously not some institution that has independent people, according to their personal characteristics, who would decide to do their job regardless of the government's pressures. It doesn't matter at this point. We can't ask the Constitutional Court a question, we can only ask the Government. Our conclusion is irrevocably that the Government has some of its own involved in the Constitutional Court's functioning, therefore, not only through the request of the Minister for Detention, but also through some other activities. We expected the Constitutional Court to realize what the secretary had promised a group of Serbs who had come, in fact to legitimate representatives of the municipalities, to ask to see what was happening. This obviously doesn't happen, and we have some promise that the government, that is, the appropriate ministry, will make a bill, a special law, on essential autonomy. I want to know what kind of law that law's gonna be. Will this law really pass on some powers to Kosovo and what will it look like? In the constitutional and legal context, it could only look like this – that the law accepts the powers that Kosovo already has from its constitution. This means Kosovo's constitution will be part of Serbia's legal and constitutional system. Gentlemen, I'm only talking about complexity because our side is not sticking to a single document that is clear here, which is the Constitution of Serbia, as the Albanians do. Their only negotiating document is Kosovo's constitution and therefore has so many successes in these negotiations. (President: Time. ) Our complexity and difficulty in the situation stems from the government wandering about what its real platform is for these negotiations. That's why we're looking for answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14040	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14041	Honored gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the day of the first democratic prime minister's murder on 12 March 2013, on the day of the murder of Zoran Djindjic, Serbian Government official Nikola Savic posted a photograph of the sniper who killed Dr Zoran Djindjic on his Facebook profile. He is being punished for the disgraceful act by a 10% reduction in salary for a month. At the Department of Justice and the State Administration, they said they were condemning his rank, gesture and punishing him with those 11/100,00 dinars. Of course, a government official can't behave differently when the heads of the government took down a board called Bulevar Zoran Djindjic Street and glued a board called Bulevar Ratko Mladic. There is no other way to behave as a government official who follows the example of Tomislav Nikolic, who said – if anyone sees Zoran Djindjic, let him tell him that Tito had problems with his leg before he died. Democratic Serbia has not forgotten those frightening messages. Unfortunately, these terrifying messages are now being broadcast by government officials. The democratic party, the citizens of Serbia and the public of this country clearly understood the frightening messages the government is sending us. Is the message that you send to us, that Serbia will be managed by one who has a better sniper, stronger muscles and harder fists? Is that why you rush to amnesty for those who sit in prison for such crimes? I can't forget how you used to walk Miladin Kovacevic through that last assembly without talking about the behavior of this government's mesmeric Uros Mišic. Not to mention the scandals you've made. Will such individuals be your only confidant in the next extraordinary parliamentary elections? Is that why you're a quick amnesty? (President: Mr Milivojevic, please ask a parliamentary question, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I thank you for your suggestion. I will ask – how many more Nikola Savic is sitting in this government, how many other such officials are sitting in the government? Will Uroš Misic and Nikola Savic be your only argument in the next extraordinary parliamentary elections? I have a few more questions for you. How today’s authorities treat the so - called so - called rulers. The fight against crime and corruption best illustrates Dr Inic's pardon from the Ribarska Bana, who Tomislav Nikolic pardoned for taking bribes. It is the first judicial verdict for corruption for the government's mandate and that's how you acted according to that verdict. Is this a model that will be passed on to all other judgments on corruption and crime? I have one more question – when will Tomislav Nikolic sit in a gifted audience and go around... (President: Mr Milivojevic, please ask parliamentary questions, second warning, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I don't know who you're asking. Please make your point. I'll tell you, I'm asking the government. I am now asking the President of the Republic of Tomislav Nikolic and the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Knezevic. (President: Please, we are asking the Government a question, therefore, to be precise. ) I ask the Minister of Agriculture Goran Knezevic – when will he go to the vault administration and see how Serbian citizens humble themselves in untransparent lines for the registration of agricultural land in the middle of the agricultural season? When will this government stop humiliating agricultural producers? I must remind you that in the middle of the agricultural season, for the term of the last government, you have humiliated these ranks for sugar, oil, gasoline, but now, in the middle of the agricultural season, you are forcing people to stand in line, unsightly order, for just 25 days, instead of being in the field, to register agricultural land. When will this humiliation of agricultural producers stop? I have a final question for the government, is it your message to Serbian citizens that they should not deal with honest work, but with crime and corruption, and already find out who will pardon them and amnesty them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14042	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragomir Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14043	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow MPs and MPs, my question is about the 1st point of the agenda. I therefore call on Article 287. The Rules of Procedure and I request an explanation from the Ministry of Culture and Information, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice. It has recently been announced at public services in the media that every third female child in Serbia has been raped, that every seven male child in Serbia has been raped. It should upset you. This is where most of our parents are. How is it possible that no ministry, no state authority, reacts to such information that disturbs citizens? It's not just about harassing citizens, it's about the next one, it's about untested research, information. I ask the question and ask the answer, if there is such evidence, what was the methodology for research to make it possible for every third child of a woman in Serbia to be raped and every seven male children? I believe deep down that there are good intentions, the Incest Trauma Center NGO has placed it and investigated it. I ask the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, to provide us with information, if they have that information as to how they got it and what is the methodology for bringing and investigating such information. I would like to draw attention to the fact that one such information, not only exciting and disturbing the people, does this information harm Serbia abroad, harms our tourism, harms education, exchanges of students. It harms people, strangers who live in our country. Yesterday, at the Swiss embassy when I was a guest with our MP group of friendships, I heard information that only 1,500 Swiss citizens live in Serbia and how many others. They'll all be worried about their families, about their children. I personally support every law that is in the interest of protecting our youth, our youngest. But I can't believe a story like this, and that's why I'm asking you to take action. The ministries to provide the MPs with information on how it happened, how it was investigated, and to know what was true. My second question is about the day, the saddest day in the Serbian state, it's the day of the bombing, the unjust bombing by 19 forces, by the NATO Alliance. Should that day go so shyly and depend on the will of the individuals whether to dedicate a little more space to the media or to lay down one crown and put an end to it? I suggest that if it is competent for the Serbian government to mark that day, pass the law, that all sirens in Serbia will be declared for one minute and there will be a minute of silence for all the victims of that violent and outrageous terrorist act that has been committed against Serbia that has never attacked anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14044	Thank you. Mr. Todorovic, on what basis are you answering? Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for the word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Nebojsa Stefanović, Vera Paunović, Ljubica Milosevic, Dejan Radenkovic, Ljubisa Stomirović, Milanka Karic, Dusica Nikolic, Marija Obradović, Igor Bečić, Konstantin Samofalov and Nada Kolundžija. You were presented the minutes of the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 22, 23, 24, 28, 29 and 30 January 2013; the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 11, 12, 13, 14, 19 and 20 February 2013, held on 25 and 27 February 2013 and the First Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 12 March 2013. I would ask all MPs to insert the cards to determine the quorum. Since today's session is attended by most of the total number of MPs, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office of the Affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Affairs has shown that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 22, 23, 24, 28, 29 and 30 January 2013. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 125, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 44, out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held 22, 23, 24, 28, 29 and 30 January 2013. I am voting on the minutes of the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 11, 12, 13, 14, 19 and 20 February 2013. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, no one, with abstentions, voted 42, out of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 11, 12, 13, 14, 19 and 20 February 2013. I am voting on the minutes of the first National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 15 February 2013. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, no one, with abstentions, voted 41 out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the first annual session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 15 February 2013. I am voting on the minutes of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 25 and 27 February 2013. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, no one, with abstentions, voted 37 out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 25 and 27 February 2013. I am voting on the minutes of the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 12 March 2013. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted 44 out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the First Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 12 March 2013. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly require the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, the proposal to supplement the proposed agenda, the proposal to merge the debate and the proposal to change the order of each item of the proposed agenda. National MPs Aleksandar Jugovic, Olgica Batic, Mirko Cikiriz, Zika Gojkovic and Aleksandar Cotrić proposed to put on the agenda an amendment and supplementation of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 4 February 2013, with an additional explanation of 12 February 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Olgica Batic proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 11 February 2013, with an additional explanation since 21 February 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Innovation Action be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 21 February 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 169 out of the 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Olgica Batic proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Human Rights Liability Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 March 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 159 out of 170 MPs for – 11 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 13 MPs of the LDP parliamentary group proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the motion for a resolution on the obligation to determine all the circumstances of the preparation and execution of the assassination of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 11 March 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, no one, with abstentions, voted 151 out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic proposed that the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 March 2013, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132 against – two abstentions – there is no vote, there is no vote of 44 out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities to combat organised crime, corruption and other particularly serious criminal offences, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 14 March 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I am concluding the vote and I am saying that for – 127, no one, with abstentions, has voted 51 out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the Law on the confiscation of property resulting from a criminal offence, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 March 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 125, no one, with abstentions, voted 53 out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 March 2013, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, no one, with abstentions, voted 46 out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting on the agenda the draft law confirming the loan agreement for the Water Supply and Waste Water Management Programme in Serbia's medium size municipalities of up to 46,000,000 euros between KFW, Frankfurt in May and the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 14 March 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare that for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 out of the 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has proposed to put on the agenda the urgent procedure of candidates for the selection of members of the Anti-Corruption Agency Board, which were submitted by authorised proposings: the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, the Supreme Cassation Court, the State Audit Institute, jointly the Citizens' Protector and the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, as well as the Law Chamber of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 14 March 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 123, no one, with abstentions, voted 51 out of the 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision to elect a president and members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 21 March 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 123, no one, with abstentions, voted 48 out of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Srdjan Mikovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the proposed agenda be added to the draft law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 January 2013 and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Chambers of Commerce, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 January 2013. Does MP Srdjan Mikovic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14045	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I gave these two draft laws in the procedure, one law, meaning the draft law amending the Chamber of Commerce Act on 8 January 2013. This law practically proposes that all that the Law on Chambers of Commerce, which entered into force on 1 January, be put into question, in this way, by considering this bill and by adopting this bill, will prevent negative consequences from occurring under the chamber system and, in some ways, will ensure the continued work of the chamber system at different levels. The second law I submitted in the procedure on 23 January 2013, is a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. It is precisely the bill that stipulates that it should be explicitly listed, as the authority of local self-government, that it can regulate and provide for the scholarship of students and students. It is not the same thing at the level of the Republic and at the level of local self-government, which is the need for funding or scholarship of students and students. From local self-government to local self-government, there are different needs to escort these children on their way to school and on their way to becoming useful members of society. Exactly, if the possibility of editing and providing scholarship of students and students is ensured, in the way the Constitution allows, but the Law on Local Self-Government did not explicitly state this as a possibility, there is practically that distentional difference, without local self-government, which scholarship students and students came under the hit of the DRI or someone because it is not explicitly stated. That's why I suggest that this agenda item enters the agenda. I regret that, for procedural reasons, I could not suggest the agenda point, the way in which funds are provided, when it is necessary to provide for the operation, especially the heart surgery for our minors. If Croatia beats us in football, do not let Croatia beat us in the process of providing funds for the operation of its children when necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14046	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 146 MPs from a total of 169 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Babic, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Articles 170, 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle and uniform search be carried out on the draft law on special measures to prevent the conduct of criminal acts against semi-freedom against minors, the draft law on the confiscation of property arising from the criminal offence, the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation and jurisdiction of the Government of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on mutual protection and exchange of classified information, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Proposal for a Law on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the mutual protection and exchange of classified information; a joint principled and uniform examination of the draft law on the conclusion and enforcement of international agreements; a proposal for the Law of the Law of the Republic of Slovenia to the Republic of Slovenia on the Republic of Slovenia on the European Union's members of the family of the family of the diplomatic and the Republic of Slovenia on the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia on the Republic of Croatia on the European Union, the European Union's draft law on the European Union's law on the European Union law on the European Union law on the European Union law on the European Union law on the European Union law on the European Union, the European Union law on the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament for the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament and the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the Council for the European Parliament for the Council, the European Parliament for the Council, the European Parliament for the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament for the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament of the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament of the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council Does MP Zoran Babic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted 37 out of the 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Veroljub Arsic, based on Article 92(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed a change in the order of the proposed agenda, i.e. the proposal for a decision on the selection of the President and members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, which was submitted by the Emergency Procedure of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public funds, to be considered as the 1st proposed agenda. Does MP Veroljub Arsic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, no one, with abstentions, voted 39 out of the 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, the proposal to supplement the proposed agenda, the proposal to merge the debate and the proposal to change the order of each item of the proposed agenda, on the basis of Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted 38 out of the 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the Agenda of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. I ask the service to make up a consolidated text of the agenda. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a decision on the selection of the President and members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of the public funds of the National Assembly; 2. Proposal for a law on special measures to prevent criminal offences against gender freedom against minors, which the Government has filed; 3. Proposal for a law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence filed by the Government: 4. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities on the prevention of organised crime, corruption and other particularly serious criminal offences, which the Government has filed; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure, which was filed by the Government; 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Labour Act, which Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic submitted; 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons withDisabilities , submitted by theGovernment ;8 . Proposal for a law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts submitted by theGovernment ;9 . Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the conduct of paid jobs of members of the family of staff of diplomatic and consularoffices , which was submitted by theGovernment ;10. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the State of Israel on the employment of members of the family of diplomatic and consular staff submitted by the Government; 11. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on mutual protection and exchange of classified information submitted by the Government; 12. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on police co-operation, which was submitted by the Government; 13. Proposals for candidates for the selection of members of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee, submitted by authorised applicants: - Board for Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly - Supreme Cassation Court - State Audit Institute - jointly the Citizens' Protector and Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection - Serbia's Bar 14. Proposal for a decision on the selection of Deputy Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, submitted by the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection; 15. Proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to determine the facts on how the budget of the Republic of Serbia was spent on the territory of the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija between 2000 and 2012, which was submitted by MP Milovan Drecun 16. Proposal for a decision to suspend the office of a public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and the local self-government of the National Assembly. We're going to work on a set agenda. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – the proposal for a decision on the election of the president and members of the Republic's Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures You have received a proposal for a decision submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. Before the search opens, I remind you, in accordance with Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. The time of the debate by the parliamentary groups has come to you in material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3, but with Article 157(1), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I ask the MPs to wait one three minutes for professional services to prepare a list of speakers for us. We're moving on to the speaker list. The first to be reported is the National MP Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14047	Thank you. Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, so here's what's been done in this House. The order of the points that are scheduled to be the subject of this session shall be changed at a shortcut. We're getting ready for one point, and suddenly the other will be. Think about it overnight, then make up your mind. Is this a parliament or is this actually an outpost of one interested group, one political party, one authority that is still unaware that it should act as if it were in power and that, among other things, it has certain responsibilities? There is no responsibility here unless he behaves responsibly, and he does not behave responsibly when this parliament is treated in this way, which is the failure of parliament, when we do not have an advanced plan on how parliament will work. We can't even count on the order of the dots of the law being as envisaged as it was given in the original information. That is indeed a big problem, because if this is the kind of relationship to parliament, then we can think about what the attitude is to citizens at all, to the public, to this community, which must suffer the consequences of this irresponsible behavior. This is an important decision to make under this agenda. It is very important to finally select members of this committee who will have and what a significant impact on how an extremely significant law, the Public Procurement Act, will be implemented. However, why such a speed to suddenly take this point out as the first point in this session? What makes a decision like this a private point? Why did this suddenly come up as the subject of debate over all these other laws that are important and that until yesterday have figured out the laws that we, among other things, are going to start discussing today? I am aware that you very much need to push that fight against corruption. I am aware that you too are aware that fighting you will not be if you continue to work and promote this fight against corruption as you have done so far. I am aware that you need to in some way show at least technically that you are doing everything to reduce corruption in the country, because it is evident, no matter how many arrests, no matter how many announcements you make, no matter how many Spanish series about how you fight corruption, corruption remains very high. We are now entering this story of how to obtain the Public Procurement Act, how to warn certain negative phenomena accompanied by these public procurements. So you're losing sight of one basic thing, that's not the biggest problem in public procurement, it's not the biggest problem that...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14048	Mrs Popovic, I would like to ask you to move to the agenda point, to discuss the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14049	Madam Chairman, that's exactly what this is about. I am just talking about what is the subject of this item on the agenda, which is the decision to elect a president and members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. These people who are listed here by name and last name to me are completely unknown people. So they're completely unknown in that sense that I can support them or not support them. I can only trust you with the word that these are the right persons for these significant functions. I was just talking about you compromising everything that you deliver for debate and decision in this House. You compromise in this irresponsible way, in which you're actually asking us to discuss and decide on members, specifically this committee. So if we only have a list of members, we have a list of good wishes, to support these members, how can we plead on that? How can we seriously discuss if we do not look at the matter much wider and in general, if we do not put this decision in the context of a general political situation, a general social and state problem that we are currently in? You'll allow it to be a problem when you're seriously counting on it and you have ambitions to fight corruption and in public procurement. When the law was passed, there was a debate about the need for law, but something is losing sight, and that is when public procurement is already being made, it is already over. So it's over, because it's not controlled. Who is it that decides to actually dissipate these public procurements? You are now asking us to support these potential board members. He asks us to expect one seriousness, responsibility, and in doing so, you have done everything to compromise both this potential seriousness and that potential responsibility. So that's step one. The first step to get you serious about the state, if you really want the rule of law, to get you serious about procedures, procedures, first here in parliament, to expect us to have a serious procedure and in these public procurements, to point out and show all these future board members how to do it. Is this a message, a serious message, is that message actually sustainable? I'm telling you it's not. I'm telling you that it isn't, as I'm going to tell you about all the laws that we've been discussing here as MPs, about the laws that you've adopted as power. All these laws have one serious flaw, and this flaw is about populism and demagogy and it concerns technical changes, technical content, and basically we don't have laws that could really make any more serious reform change in this country. So if you're based on that kind of work, if you're based on the fabrication of such laws and amendments to existing laws, in that case you're going to have a very big problem with the functioning of the rule of law. In that case, you're jeopardizing the legal order. It's a fundamental problem with laws like this and this decision that we need to discuss today. The largest number of MPs, of course, have not even read the decision, of course not to be discussed much. It's considered to be just one of the decisions. It is not just one of the decisions, like no law, that the bill that comes into this parliament is not just one of the laws. But unfortunately, in the past seven months, you've just been doing that the laws that have been here...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14050	Mrs Popovic, once again, please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14051	Let me just point out once again that it is very important that every decision, including this one, which you send to parliament, is presented as one serious decision, one serious intention, and not just one technical question that you're going to do, so that you don't actually do anything. So that's the essence of everything I've said. It's not a problem in decision, it's not a problem in these people. We just don't know who these people are. The problem is that we don't have a content that we might be able to plead on, and indeed there are serious economic problems in this country, which are only increasing by huge corruption that somehow doesn't go down in the past time period. PRESIDENT: The word has the People's MP Veroljub Arsic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14052	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the chairman of the Rules of Procedure in Rule 106(1) and Article 107(1), because you were obliged to warn the previous speaker and as chairman of the Finance Committee, that this was not a proposal from some of you, but a proposal from the Finance Committee, which carried out the competition and the one who had never been able to implement it before. He was completely public, everyone could participate, there was written text, there was oral text in front of all the members of the Finance Committee, where any member of the Finance Committee could ask any candidate and take part in the vote. Does the LDP here want to display a dictatorship or devalue the work of all members of the Finance Committee? If he wants to accuse the SNS of dictatorship, I can understand that, but I can't understand that everything that fellow MPs have done from both the government and the opposition have done, someone says it's a dictatorship. Apparently, not only are they not ready for this item on the agenda, but they haven't even read the suggestions properly. That seems to be the LDP problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14053	The word has been made by MP Bojan Djuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14054	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, Mr Arsic completely misread what Mrs Popovic was talking about, and then he attributed it to the entire LDP, and as an authorised representative of the LDP on this agenda point, I am reporting. Mr. Arsic is wrong. No one has accused the members of the Finance Committee or Mrs. Kovac... Can you warn the MPs?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14055	I apologize, Mr. Djuric answered the line based on the LDP mentioned. That's why he got the word. Here you go, Mr. Gjury. I'll give you some time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14056	Thank you very much. You'll get the time back so we don't have that time problem again. So, neither Mrs Popovic nor the LDP insisted that the dictatorship or disorder in this House is the real Finance Committee of this assembly, but we were talking about the fact that it is absolutely inadmissible to organise the agenda in this way. Mrs Popovic had already spoken, the debate started on the list at the moment the consolidated text of the agenda arrived. Why were you waiting for March 26th and 27th to discuss this? When, Mr. Arsic, will the National Assembly vote on this? You have put parliament in a position like the political majority in this House, and this has nothing to do with the members of the Finance Committee, that five days before the deadline, when it must be done under the Public Procurement Act that you so ghastly announced two years ago, you have no elected commission. People's MPs who have organized their work today both in this room and outside of it, and again I tell you, there is life and beyond this hall, organized in accordance with the announced agenda, you have changed it in such a way that you have put a complete mess into the work of this Parliament. That's what Mrs Popovic was talking about. I don't think it's a dictatorship. I think it's inconclusive.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14057	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14058	Obviously we don't understand each other here in some things again. I was talking about the Finance Committee conducting an entire competition procedure. He's making a public ad that anyone who wants can compete. Everyone has to agree that it takes time for people to collect documentation, to run out of deadlines, etc. So it takes time to test those same people who applied, so it takes time to interview those people. Nothing here has been done over the knee. The fact is, parliament has a life. Some times it depends on the board, some times it depends on the law, some time it depends on the president of the assembly. But the first item was proposed on Friday. The Finance Committee sat down on Thursday, made its proposal, and a change and addition of the agenda was requested on Friday, to be the first point in today's session. What's unprepared for that? Who's unprepared? These are the best and shortest deadlines possible, or do you want us to let the Public Procurement Act not apply from April 1st? Excuse me, in addition to all these techniques and good will to prepare all of this properly, where no one can object to the whole procedure, when it comes to candidates, I would not allow the Public Procurement Act to enter into full application on April 1st and that is why this is now the first item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14059	Thank you. Mr. Chiquiriz, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14060	Madam Chairman, you have indeed tried several times to point to Mrs Juditi Popovic that she respects the rules of the Rules of Procedure, but I am advertising, pointing to violations of the Rules of Procedure. 27, 106 and 107, because it's obvious that the speaker didn't follow the agenda at all, and I don't think she even knew what the agenda theme was. A series of lies has been told. I would like to say, as a representative of the Committee on Finance, that it is true that a public competition has been called, that all candidates have passed the test, that we have all, as representatives of the Committee, discussed with all the candidates, that one of the candidates has pointed out a number of abuses in the previous session and that the Committee has unanimously decided to inform the Public Prosecutor's Office, in doubt that some previous members of the Committee have committed crimes. Therefore, here, from the point of view of the SPO and the DHSS, the least we can talk about is breaking the law, breaking the rules or some dictatorship. I think the whole procedure was absolutely transparent.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14061	Thank you. I agree with you, Mr. Chikiriz and Mr. Arsic. As chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, I am responsible for the overall process of public competition for the members of the Commission. So the procedure has been fully implemented in accordance with the law. All the members of the Committee and all the interested MPs had the opportunity to inform themselves of everything that was going on during the tests and talks with the candidates. I'm going to say one more time, I'm responsible for all the candidates. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. He's not here. The next is Radmila Gerov's folk emissary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14062	Thank you. We do not believe that the Committee has not done the job in accordance with the law, but the basic and elemental order is that the Committee could at first say, at least for these proposed members, what they have completed, what school they have, what work experience they have. If we read it, we can see there were 13 candidates who passed the test. What made these six other candidates worse than those proposed? On the basis of this, we who are not members of the Committee, who are only Members of Parliament, see only the names and last names of the proposed candidates and we know nothing else about them, and we believe that it is the main order that we have received at least the expertise, how much they have been engaged in public procurement, etc. The law on public procurement announced by the SNS was supposed to bring savings, at least said, of several hundredm euros, was supposed to reduce corruption, and although it was voted last year, it would only take effect on 1 April. At the same time as this government wants to respect the Public Procurement Act, the following facts show. The assembly has confirmed many international contracts, which have put this country and all citizens in charge of several billion euros. Public procurement is not carried out under these international contracts. Then what's this commission for? To oversee the work of local self-government and other actors who need to respect the law. Serbia's largest procurements, conducted by the government and certain ministries, will not apply the Public Procurement Act. Then the question arises – why did you talk so loudly about large savings, and then you do everything you can to avoid applying the Law on Public Procurement? If we remember, in last session of parliament, the ruling majority adopted a loan and voted in agreement with Russia, with the country in charge of 800m euros, provided we buy Russian trains. Is there a law on public procurement there? There isn't. That's how it was for the Colubary. (President: Please return to the topic. ) The topic is – Commission for the Protection of Rights in the Public Procurement Procedure. That's exactly what I'm talking about. The commission will not have any business for the largest investment in this country, as it will be conducted without proceedings and without the Public Procurement Act. It only says that SNS and this government are doing everything they can to avoid the law that they were saying was meant to bring great savings. To whom, then, will this law apply? The very fact that we are considering the commission today at five to twelve, shows one inconclusion of the ruling coalition and shows how much it cares about the application of the Public Procurement Act. Have we made any savings yet? We didn't. No single dinar has been saved so far, and you've been talking about hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros and you've been talking about reducing crime and corruption. Did you cut it? You're not. You will start on April 1st by controlling individual entities, those who will enforce the law for millions of dinars, and you will not enforce the law for several billion euros. So much for the population of the SNS and so much for how much this law, as you have announced, is significant for the citizens of this country, it is important that you, as the largest political party, try to make fun of the law and not implement it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14063	Thank you. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14064	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I followed the procedure carried out by the Finance Committee in part as a member's deputy, and he did seem completely transparent at first, in accordance with the spirit of the law. It could have been a good choice of members of this committee. The shadow falls, the colleagues talked about the speed, that is, the way this point is placed on the agenda. In a way, we came to teat with time and it had to be like this. I don't think that's the best way. It could have been before, but well, we've had one extensive procedure conducted within the Committee. What puts the shadow of this whole process is that at the Committee's session, when we decided between candidates who had different test points, which were really good and impartial in some way, we threw out those who had better results, or did not enter this choice for the Commission's proposal, and then some who had far fewer points entered the same motion. That's one shadow that falls for this whole thing. I think there could have been some reason, even from members of the Committee in front of the ruling majority. The second thing that also puts doubt is the way only the vote was done. Unanimously, in fact, the ruling majority's votes have been chosen exclusively by the proposed members of the commission. It could've been secret. I think that in a good way all the board members took part in the Committee's work while the proceedings took place. The process could have been completed more adequately, there would have been a secret vote, for these candidates were also voted by opposition parties, especially as we believe they were excellent in the motion for a decision and some candidates who had not passed. I don't know how the selection was done. That's really problematic, because even by the number of points and by the answers they gave when we had the survey, some candidates deserve to be part of this decision. If it's a mistake, or if it's a speed, then you can consider an explanation. If it is what we watch every day in Serbia, which is, let's say, the situation that out of 160 civil servants in office is only 12 chosen through competitions, I am talking about officials who have been elected since the start of the new government, it is clear that we cannot avoid that there is still, even stronger influence of the party and on employment, on the setting up of civil servants, and in this case there is an impression that the same exists in the selection of this commission, or a proposal for a decision to elect a commission. Because how do you interpret that the candidate, who was second in the number of votes, or by the number of test points, did not enter the motion for a decision? There may be a reason, but we should have heard it on the Finance Committee. Also, the one who had the fourth test result - why? Or a candidate who was the seventh. Indeed, there are a lot of concerns, especially if we know that candidates who have not proposed have had good answers to the survey itself by the board members. I think this could have been a much better way to do it. However, it seems to me that he has ruled that the party's agreement with the ruling majority, that that is how this decision was made. I think it's bad, and it seems to me that the damage will suffer the very application of this law, because I think we're going to have a lot of problems about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14065	Thank you. Mr. Jovanovic, I will allow myself to answer you as chairman of the Finance Committee. The candidate you spoke of, the second on the list and who practically had more points than those proposed by the so far is the President of the Commission for the Protection of Rights. Most Committee members believe that the President-in-Office of the Commission has not done his job properly. That's why I'm speaking from my personal point of view, and that's why he probably didn't come into the motion for a decision. Next on the list is MP Srdjan Milivojevic, who is not there. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14066	All right, I accept if you say that the criteria were supposed to be and that someone couldn't have been in the previous term, then it was supposed to be in the law, not that we plead it so that it looks like a political decision. What about the candidate at number four? He had the same number of points as the other ones that were chosen, which are proposed in this decision – what difference has been made? Why wasn't there any explanation? If there is a reason for this that he was the president of the previous Commission and that he did not work well, or someone who was the previous president of the Commission to be a candidate, it should have stood in law and should not have people showing up, if that is a disqualification criterion. That was supposed to be completely transparent. Like this, there's no doubt about it and there's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14067	I've explained it to you and it's my personal aspect. I made myself clear. As far as the candidates under regular number 4, as I recall, he has the same number of points as the other candidates, or candidates who entered the motion for a decision. Since the whole procedure was conducted, the first was the testing, then the talks with the candidates, you had the opportunity to participate, each member of the Committee had the right to decide according to his own opinion, from what he concluded after those talks. I don't see any political response or anything at all. Here you go, Mr. Ivanovic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14068	That's what I said. The procedure was completely fine and completely transparent, public and everything was fine. In the end, you messed him up because it could've been a secret vote and then the opposition MPs could've voted, one candidate could've gotten more votes, one less. This is how they all got six votes from the ruling majority. It is clear then what it is – political agreement. If there is a political agreement, then we can't talk about getting a Commission that's independent. That's what I'm talking about. They did, but 28 points is at least half the candidates, and so is the one that's not in the motion for a decision, and that's why there are three points with 28 points that are in the decision – what's the difference? I only asked for an explanation – why didn't anyone say so on the board? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14069	The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14070	Your Honor, Madam Chairman, there is nothing that is too late, I think there is only something that has not been started in time, and so is the choice of this commission. The law on public procurement came into force last year, i.e. last year, and the election procedure for the Commission members was launched on 28 January. If last year, when the law was adopted, we would not have had to change today's agenda. That's the whole truth. You were just talking about your personal thinking about why someone was chosen and someone didn't. I am a member of the Assembly Committee on Finance and voted against this decision. As proof that you did not have clear criteria for selecting candidates for members of the Commission, I also state that in the overall explanation that has seven sides. And on the seven pages of the argument, you didn't write the results of the candidate's written test. For me, that's enough proof that you've established some new criteria that aren't transparent. Anyone could have competed, but not everyone could have been chosen. I'm under election procedure, as a member of the Finance Committee, I have no objection. I have an objection to the selection of members of the Commission. That's why I'm on the Finance Committee, and even when this point comes to adoption, that's why. to the vote, I'll vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14071	Mr. Mijatovic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14072	I have to take this. We were doing a very difficult job. (President: Please stick to the Rules of Procedure. Please specify a member of the Rules of Procedure. Of course. I'm advertising Article 104. I can't agree with the lies that come out here. We were doing a job that was very difficult, with the desire to create a commission that would be quality, good, where it would dominate expertise, competence, knowledge. We agreed to run a test. The test was not an elimination but a classification and by the very fact, the people who passed the test were in the motion for a vote. We have also questioned every member of the Commission who has competed and we have come by voting, by public vote, everyone as he thought they were. I must tell you, very responsiblely, there was no mutual agreement either in position or in opposition. All the members of the Committee voted according to their beliefs. I can say it very competently, because I voted for those candidates I thought could do their job quality. This should be and must be an example, that when we have one law that means step forward in relation to the previous law, we have an institution of a system that will enforce that law. The laws are not good unless we have adequate institutions to enforce them. That's exactly what we were supposed to do, and that's what we realized. All members of the Finance Committee, both from the position and from the opposition, actively participated in the competition itself, from the very beginning to the end, to a vote that was public and transparent. That's why I think this should be commended, not attacked. (President: Time. We have taken one step forward to get a quality system institution, especially as the previous one has formally done its job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14073	I must, Mr. Mijatovic, in all respects of what you have spoken of, to tell you that you have misused the Rules of Procedure and that you have used time to hurt the Rules of Procedure to replicate. I understand your good intentions, but I'm going to have to take this time away from your MP group. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word before the search is concluded, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96 want to speak. Rules of Procedure? The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14074	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't want to report as an authorised representative in the first part of the debate. Given the discussions that have arisen, I would like to say quite clearly that the SPS Parliament Club will support this proposal for a decision to elect a president and members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. I think the first element and the first significant news is that this time we have proposed candidates based on the competition and that this is one positive novelty and that this is something that should first be pointed out in this debate. So far, the government has done it. In this way we made sure that a large number of candidates, all those who wanted or thought to meet the conditions, apply to the competition. We got, therefore, from that one quantity at the end of that quality, because we made it possible for the public at the time of the election, but everything that was the subject of the way the Finance Committee came to this proposal really deserved this time commendation, because it was one procedure that went on and on, it was very precise, it was very rigorous, and ultimately consistent. The debate also led to the fact that no one here has challenged any candidate who has been proposed to be a member. On the contrary, it was possible that some possible proposals could be proposed by another candidate as a member of the commission. This suggests that nothing is left to the case this time and that everything was under the public eye and that we really got both the president and the expert competent and responsible members of the commission at the end. The first classification test was provided with documentation and references. A certain number of candidates fell off by then. After that, a test that was not eliminational, but a classificational and afterwards conversation. All these circumstances have led to the proposal of the best candidates, and we of the SAA believe that the proposal of the president and the members of the candidates has been carried out in the best way and that they, in accordance with the extended powers of the Commission for the Protection of Rights, will be able to do their job in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14075	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14076	Madam President, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen of the Republic of Serbia, the DS cannot support this decision, because behind the attempts of one procedure, which initially seemed to be transparent, in the end, what we have seen, everyone can compete, but the only thing that matters is that he did not work during the previous government. If that was already a key argument, and you were Mrs. Kovac, as chairman of that committee, you just said, and that the only real criterion is that someone in independence from his or her professional capacities did not work in the previous period, then that was how it should have been written in the Public Procurement Act, to know who was like and who was not, or that you put it as a criterion. We see here that you said that 13 out of 14 candidates passed the tests, we don't see those results. As it was or was not agreed, we see as one man, six representatives of the ruling coalition, the first on the list can, the second on the list by points can't, the third on the list with points can, the fourth can't, the fifth can, etc. We see that there is not a single clear criterion by which you finally came up with a list like this, except that the only real criterion was that it did not work in any way in the government, and in which your party participated, as well as many others. But I'd like to say two more things about this decision, which is that this is how what should have been done as a big deal, at least that's how this law was announced. Starting on April 1st, it is next week, the application of this law will begin. He's announced loudly. I would like, as a member of this House and a member of the Finance Committee, to say that we will immediately request a report from this now established commission on the results of public procurement in the first quarter of 2013. Let that be their first assignment. I will not ask to be proved if 600m euros have already been announced, and it shows that 150m euros have been saved for the first quarter, as someone here will say that the law has been applied since 1 April this year. Let's see in the first quarter if there was any savings. Let this committee show it. Let us know if what we hear is true, but in order for her not to say so, we have information that the ministries run by the people this government has appointed, the public enterprises run by the people that this government has appointed, this regime, are rapidly investigating public procurement by an urgent procedure and by direct guess. As an explanation, we have heard that they think that this law, which begins next week, is not enforceable. I don't want to speculate here, but I suggest we work with facts and see how the first quarter went with public procurement, how much savings were saved and whether there were fewer procedures under emergency procedure or more. I think we'll see, after all, that from that big and ghastly story that this new law will solve everything, which you showed when you rejected our amendment during the debate in this home last year, you didn't want to show in the history of our public finances that there is a feedback mechanism and that if for some months, during the pre-election campaign, and after the formation of the government, it says that a certain law will have an effect of saving from 600m euros to a billion euros, to accept the mechanism that will prove it. Then we said, I repeat, if you vote budget rebalance, where this budget fund will be set up... (Chairman: Mr. Djelic, please return to the topic. )......................................................................................................... which will allow us to show whether this law gives effect or not. We're going to vote for him, but I'm afraid this kind of procedure, by selecting personnel like this, ultimately, where the only legal criterion is that he didn't work during the previous government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14077	Mr. Djelic, I think you've heard well that I said it was my personal opinion, as I've decided. You mentioned a report on the commission's work, we decided on the basis of the report. The board requested a report on the work of the last commission and this decision was based on the report. I advocate that every commission submits a report on its work to the National Assembly. The word has Božidar Djelic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14078	I would ask you, since you mentioned it, you said it was a personal impression. I don't think we should be dealing with personal impressions in this house. This is too serious. I suggest that a report be made then and we see what the previous term was doing wrong or he was doing well, that we have some facts, and then we have some basis, not because of this party or that party, these and those authorities, to compare how it worked, to draw some line, some report, and then to see how this new convocation is going to work. If they were asked to be candidates under the new Public Procurement Act, I expect them to be part of the venture, which will provide more transparent, legal and cheaper public procurement. Unless they also contribute to saving at least 600m euros annually for our citizens, let them acknowledge that they are not for this job.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14079	Mr. Djelic, we've been trying to explain to you all along that this wasn't a political agreement and that every vote of the board member was his personal position. That's why I'm talking about how who made the decision, and that's why I'm mentioning my personal position on the basis of which I, as a member of the board, have decided. I repeat, we did not have a political agreement, but each of us, members of the commission, voted on the basis of what we concluded during the public competition, or talks with the candidates. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. Since we have completed the debate on this agenda point, I remind you of the provision of Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to which the President of the National Assembly may decide that the day for voting on the bill should be immediately after the examination of the bill has been completed. In accordance with this provision, I hereby determine Tuesday, 26 March 2013, starting at 15.00 hours, as the day for voting on the first item of the agenda of this session – the proposal for a decision on the election of the president and members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Also, according to Article 87(4). Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that, after the completion of the single search on the first item of the sitting agenda, a day for voting on this point will be set. Now, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a break. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work by deciding on the first item of the agenda of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. In order to be able to approach the vote, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 130 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for deciding. We move to a decision on the first item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION OF THE PRESIDENTS AND MEMBER STATES OF THE COMMISSION FOR THE PROTECTION OF RIGHTS IN PUBLIC PROCESSES As the National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision on the election of the President and members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, v – 20, abstentions – two, 13 of the 163 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to elect a president and members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. We're going back to work. We move on to a joint principled and uniform search on the draft law on special measures to prevent the conduct of acts against semi-annual freedom against minors, the draft law on the confiscation of property arising from the criminal offence, the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities to combat organised crime, corruption and other particularly serious criminal offences, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Code on Criminal Procedure and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on mutual protection and the exchange of classified information. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'd like to inform you that I am on the subject of a joint principle and uniform search of the motions of the law at issue. 2, 3, 4, 5 and 11 of the agenda, called for today's session, in addition to the representatives of promoter Nikola Selakovic, Minister of Justice and State Administration, to attend: Dr Danilo Nikolic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration, Mr Miroslav Coguric, Assistant Minister of Justice and State Administration Goran Matic, Director of the Office of the National Security and Security Council, Biljana Pavlovic, Director of the Directorate for the Management of Disposal of Property, Jovan Ćosic, Head of the Department of Legal Affairs in the Justice Department of Justice and State Administration and Zlatko Petrovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled and uniform search on proposals for legislation from the agenda by point. 2, 3, 4, 5 and 11, and before the opening of the joint principle and uniform search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. You've got a schedule for the MPs' groups in matter. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled and uniform search on the draft law on special measures to prevent the conduct of criminal acts, the draft law on the amendment of the Law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the prevention of organised crime, corruption and other particularly serious criminal offences, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on Mutual Protection and the Exchange of Secret Information. Does the proposing representative, Nikola Selakovic, the minister of justice and the state administration, want a word? The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14081	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the debate in principle, allow me to give several introductory notes concerning the draft law on special measures to prevent the conduct of acts against semi-freedom against minors, the proposal for a law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence, the draft law amending the Law on Organisation and the jurisdiction of state authorities in the fight against organised crime, corruption and other particularly serious criminal offences, the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure and the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on mutual protection and the exchange of classified information. With regard to the proposal for a law on special measures to prevent the conduct of crimes against semi-freedom against minors, I would like to begin by reminding that the above-mentioned Bill was in the assembly procedure almost a year ago. The main reason for proposing this law is to increase the criminal-legal protection of minors against those who commit crimes against half-freedom. Previously, at the time of the mandate of the previous Government, the Ministry of Justice established a proposal for this law, referred it to the National Assembly for adoption, and in the meantime, when the new government was elected, we show that where there was a positive and honorable intention of the legislator, we respect and support this bill with which we are today before you, the MPs. The current criminal law contains a system of criminal sanctions that is adapted, above all, to the perpetrators of crimes of all kinds. However, given that the number of crimes against semi-freedom has been increased in recent years against minors, it is necessary, and in order to prevent these extremely serious crimes, to extend existing criminal sanctions, primarily security measures, to prevent those crimes from being committed in the future. In addition to this main reason for law-making, I would add another reason, which is to fulfil the obligations undertaken by the Republic of Serbia, by confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse, which was confirmed by the National Assembly in May 2010. This Convention requires Member States to take all necessary legislative and other measures to collect information relating to identity and genetic profile of persons convicted of criminal offences established in accordance with this Convention in order to prevent and prosecute criminal offences established in accordance with this Convention. Also, when drawing up the Bills, it is also taken into account: Recommendation No 16 of 2001 on the protection of children from sexual exploitation, the EU Council Framework Decision on the fight against sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, as well as the parallel legal solutions of the countries which have regulated this area by special laws. I would point out that the bill applies to persons convicted of crimes against semi-freedom, committed to minors, prescribed in Chapter 18 of the Criminal Code, in order to remove social conditions for these persons to be able to carry out these serious crimes again. The draft law lays down derogations from the general institutes contained in the Criminal Code and provides for an absolute ban on the mitigation of penalties under the legal minimum and conditional release for the maintenance of prison sentences before the expiry of the time of the sentence, for the perpetrators of criminal offences to which this law applies. In addition, it is foreseen that the legal consequences of the conviction are mandatory at the time when they relate to the termination of public office and the termination of calls or occupations relating to the work with minors. The bill also provides that the legal consequences of the convictions relating to the prohibition of obtaining public functions and the prohibition of the establishment of a working relationship, i.e. making calls or occupations relating to working with minors, which are applied after a suspended prison sentence, lasts for 20 years, which is twice the period prescribed in the Criminal Code. In addition to those legal consequences, in order to prevent the re-execution of the criminal offences in question, the bill also provides for five specific measures, which are to be carried out according to the perpetrators of criminal offences over a period of 20 years after the detention of the prison. These measures are as follows: mandatory reporting to the competent authority of the police and the Administration for the execution of criminal sanctions, banning visits to places where minors are gathered, mandatory visits to professional counselling centres and institutions, mandatory notification of changes in residence, residence or workplace and mandatory notification of travel abroad. Every four years, according to official duty, or every two years, at the request of the person to whom the measurements are carried out, the court shall review the need for their further implementation. The bill elaborates on how to implement specific measures. Another significant newspaper contained in the bill represents the keeping of special records of persons convicted of crimes against semi-freedom committed to the harm of minors. This record contains data on a convicted person. In addition to keeping general data on the person convicted, it should in particular be pointed out that the provision of DNA data on the convicted person, which is also a newspaper in our criminal-legislative legislation. A special record shall be kept by the Administration for the exercise of criminal sanctions, as an authority within the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration, in accordance with the provisions of that Convention of the Council of Europe. In this way, centralised data management is achieved from a specific record, which enables more effective monitoring of the implementation of this law and facilitates access to the necessary data to authorities responsible for combating criminal offences against semi-freedom, both in the country and abroad. The draft law also stipulates that the data in the special record are kept secret, and that the data in the special record is not allowed to be deleted. The bill obliges state and other bodies, as well as institutions that work with minors, to ask for information on whether the person to establish a working relationship with them is listed in a special record. Penalties of the draft law, with a view to more effective application of the legal consequence of convictions and special measures, provide for a prison sentence for violations of 30 to 60 days. In the shortest lines, let me present the bill of confiscation of property arising from the crime. An important law on the confiscation of property arising from the criminal act was adopted in October 2008, as a pioneer enterprise that, in the previous four years, has shown its good and sometimes its own badness which, by this proposal of the law, hopefully, when we adopt it, we will be able to correct, and that those of the good and positive sides of this idea and this undertaking as much as possible, we will make it more effective and efficient. So the law was passed in October 2008, and its application began on 1 March 2009. For the first time in our criminal law, this law introduces the possibility of a person legally convicted, for a certain, otherwise very serious crime, which, among other things, is characterized by a large profit, is permanently taken away from property he owns, which he does not prove to have acquired in a legitimate way. So far, the application of this law has yielded very good results, above all, in countering the crimes of organised crime, which was also the main goal that this law wanted to achieve. The assets worth more than millions of euros were temporarily or permanently seized. The assets seized include both foreign and dinar money, different valuables, valuable movables, real estate, but also legal persons, i.e. companies which were the subject of illegal privatisations. In view of the current law, the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration concluded that it is necessary to make certain amendments to this legal text, in order to comply with new criminal-processing legislation and to correct certain problems that have arisen and proved important in the application of the law. For this reason, at the end of last year, a task force was formed to make amendments and supplement the law on the confiscation of property arising from the crime. During the working group’s work, it was concluded that the amendments or additions of more than half of the provisions of the law were necessary, so that, in accordance with the uniform methodological rules for the making of the rules adopted by the National Assembly, it was decided to draw up a new text of the law on the confiscation of property derived from the criminal act. This is why, even though we are going to pass a new law, this bill also contains a whole range of identical provisions, as the applicable law that is currently being applied. The Justice and State Administration Working Group for amending and supplementing the law had in its work the support of the IPR project, which is funded by the European Union and implemented by the Council of Europe. When drafting the text of the law, the Working Group came from remarks and suggestions submitted by representatives of the courts and prosecutors, as well as from opinions delivered by foreign experts hired by the project. In addition to the remarks submitted by experts, the examinations and objections by the judicial authorities and by the department of financial investigations conducted directly by the law were also collected, and representatives of these bodies were also involved in the work as members of the Working Party. In the course of law-making, problems have also been addressed in the current practice of the Directorate for the Management of Disposal of Assets, which primarily relate to the management of temporary assets, and in particular the management of real estate and companies. In addition, the draft legislation also took into account international conventions in this area confirmed by the Republic of Serbia, such as the 1990 UN Convention against Illegal Trade in Narcotics and Psychotropic Substances; the 1999 Convention of the Council of Europe on the Laundering, Disclosure, Confiscation and Confiscation of Incomes of Crime; the 1999 Criminal and Legal Convention of the Council of Europe on Corruption; the International Convention on the control of UN terrorism financing from 1999; the UN Convention on the fight against Transnational Organized Crime; the UN Convention against Corruption of 2003 and the 2003 Convention on the Law of the Council of Europe on the Washing, Seeking, Confiscation and Confiscation of Incomesured Crime and the Financing of Terrorism from 2005. Also in the draft law, parallel-law solutions have been used by countries that have a longer tradition in the area of confiscation of property arising from criminal offences, such as Italy, Belgium, the Netherlands, Great Britain, Ireland, Portugal, the United States and Canada, as well as relevant European Court of Human Rights rulings. The majority of the amendments in relation to the applicable Law are provisions governing court proceedings for temporary and permanent confiscation of property. The biggest difference is seen in the fact that the procedure for the permanent confiscation of assets is initiated only after the judicially strong completion of the criminal proceedings for which the permanent confiscation of assets under this law can be applied. In this way, it contributes to a consistent respect for the presumption of innocence in criminal proceedings, as it avoids the conduct of criminal proceedings and proceedings for the permanent confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence. So there can be no more prejudication of a decision made in a criminal proceedings that determines the guilty of a criminal offence. In addition, there was a necessary alignment with the 2011 Criminal Procedure Code and amendments to the Criminal Code of 2009 and 2012. In order to be more efficient, the competent authorities have also specified additional competences for the financial investigation unit and the Asset Management Directorate. In addition to the most important amendments provided for in the draft law, the following are. It is possible for the Directorate to draw up co-operation agreements with other state bodies to carry out operations within the competence of the Directorate as well as the possibility of concluding contracts on permanent business cooperation with maintenance companies, the provision of service transport and other services. So far, there have been no partners in charge of the management of this property, such as specialised companies to provide certain services. Next, it is prescribed that directors, civil servants, employees of the Directorate when working on the execution operations have an official badge and ID. So far, the people who have worked on these jobs have had no mark on the officials, even though they have worked on delicate assets confiscation jobs. In the field, owners or third parties were causing problems. Sometimes very serious verbal, and sometimes even physical attacks. Furthermore, it is laid down as a general principle that, in the process of confiscation of property, the competent authorities are required to take care of the honor and dignity of the owner, the accused, the witnesses of the associates, the abandoner, the legal followers and the third parties. This particularly concerns the media and manner of reporting and banning the violation of the presumption of innocence until the judicial end of the procedure for the application of the provisions of our Constitution and international European conventions. Next, the national and other authorities, organisations and public services are obliged to enable the Financial Investigations Unit to see, access and download databases from their electronic databases as well as to see and deliver data, documents and other items. Also, at the request of the unit, natural and legal persons holding documents and evidence of sources of income and property shall be obliged to surrender them without delay if it is likely that they can identify the assets obtained or derived from the offence. Next, powers of the public prosecutor are prescribed to allow the next banking or other financial organisation to provide data to the Financial Investigations Unit on the state of the personal and business accounts and the safes of the owners who can serve as evidence of the property arising from the criminal offence. Then, it is prescribed that the order of the public prosecutor to prohibit the availability of immovable property is given priority in the immovableity cadasar immediately after receipt. This is extremely important for preventing abuse by third party owners and other interested parties. The procedure for the temporary confiscation of property was then specified by the court making a decision within eight days of the date of submission of the request by the public prosecutor without holding the hearing. The right to object to a solution to the temporary confiscation of assets decided by an unsuspecting court of the same court after the hearing has been held. The right to appeal shall be granted after a decision has been called upon by a major court of law. Power has been introduced that the court may, under official duty or on a proposal from the parties, replace the temporary confiscation of assets by means of a ban on the availability of that property. It is then that the power is introduced for the Directorate to be able to manage the temporarily withdrawn legal person by means of a contract to transfer not a natural or legal person with powers, obligations and responsibilities as a representative of state capital in accordance with the law governing privatisation. When it comes to the confiscation of legal persons, it was necessary to provide a legal basis for the availability of the property of a legal person. This provision sets out the state's participation in a shareholder or shareholder company with rules governing the area. For example, if a natural person is deprived of the state's actions, he shall take his place in a company with the rights as listed as a representative of state capital. It was then given the authority of the Directorate that the funds obtained by the management of the assets entrusted to it could be used to help in a certain period of time by other legal entities entrusted to it in order to prevent the reduction of the value of the assets or to increase the value of the assets. The use of money is used by the rules of a good businessman, a good expert and a good host. The provisions of Articles 26 to 28 of the Law provide for solutions for the temporary confiscation of assets. Limits relating to assets that cannot be temporarily taken away as well as the delivery of solutions. The legal paper constitutes a regulation of the facts of a solution to the temporary confiscation of assets in the event of opening a bankruptcy proceedings against a legal person covered by the solution. Since this was not regulated by the applicable law, it created major problems in practice in the Directorate responsible for the management of the temporarily seized property. Finally, the authority of the Directorate was extended to manage and property that was permanently seized until the government's decision on the availability of the property. This newspaper was introduced to distinguish property derived from a criminal offence from other assets owned by the Republic of Serbia, which is managed by the Property Directorate, given the way it was acquired. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the organisation of the jurisdiction of the state authorities in combating organised crime, corruption and other particularly serious criminal offences has led to intervention with regard to the jurisdiction of the national authorities implementing this law. That amendment brings together the catalogs of criminal acts under this law with amendments to the December 2012 Criminal Code, which prescribes new crimes in the field of corruption and terrorism. In addition, the bill shall bring together certain members of the law on the organisation and jurisdiction of the state authorities to combat organised crime, corruption and other particularly serious criminal offences, with the Data Securitisation Act relating to the labelling and handling of classified information. With regard to the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, I would like to give some explanations. In December 2012, it was postponed to apply the new Code of Criminal Procedure for 1 October 2013. When it comes to criminal proceedings, for which no public prosecutor's office is responsible. On this occasion, we pointed out that the reason for the postponement, the beginning of the application of the Code, is that the work is under way on major amendments to the Codes, which will be prepared for the first regular session of the National Assembly in 2013. The Labour Group of the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration has prepared major amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which covered the amendments of more than 200 members of the Code. However, given that, in the meantime, the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration has sought and completed its work on drawing up a new national strategy, judicial reform, and that the work on this strategy is now in the final phase, while public debates are under way for more than a month and a half, it has been concluded that, until the implementation of the new national strategy begins, it should stop with major amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure. In order to take account of the dynamics envisaged by the new national strategy and action plan, which is also under way, the creation of the final text of amendments and the addition of the Code of Criminal Procedure has joined. For this reason, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure today provides for only the most necessary amendments and additions. The first intervention refers to an amendment to the provision of conditions which must be met by the defender in criminal proceedings. The bill eliminates restricting the rights of the defender from the current legal text, where the possibility of a lawyer showing up as a defender is conditional upon the possession of an appropriate internship. Namely, the fact that there is an internship in a lawyer or court does not mean that the lawyer who owns that internship is qualified as a defendant in a more complex criminal case. Since it is possible that a certain lawyer has been engaged exclusively in civil matter and not in criminal matters all along. For this reason, and because of the demands of a large number of lawyers, it is proposed to abolish the existing legal solution that creates discrimination among lawyers. At the same time, the bill stipulates that the procedure for criminal offences for which up to five years of imprisonment can replace a lawyer's intern, which is justified by the fact that the same solution already exists in the 2001 Code of Criminal Procedure, which is still being applied, and also by the necessity of allowing legal trainees to properly obtain non-direct work experience. In addition, the draft law harmonises the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure which determines the criminal offences for which specific evidence actions with amendments and additions to the December 2012 criminal code can be established. Also, the bill complements the Code of Criminal Procedure of a provision relating to the determination of detention after the first-degree sentence, since the current text of the Code did not make this situation, so it is necessary to fill in the legal void. Finally, I would also like to make a few remarks on the draft law on the confirmation of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on mutual protection and the exchange of classified information. As is known, the Republic of Serbia has earlier confirmed agreements on the mutual exchange of classified information with the EU and NATO. However, in practice both the country in the environment and EU and NATO members, the need for individual issues to be regulated by bilateral agreements has also been demonstrated. I remind you that the National Assembly has already confirmed a bilateral agreement with the Republic of Slovakia in this area, as well as that the draft law confirming the agreement with the Republic of Bulgaria, about a year ago, was already in the assembly procedure. Such bilateral agreements encourage opportunities for regional co-operation in the areas of joint training and engagement of security elements in multinational operations, crisis management and border management, countering terrorism, organised crime and corruption, illegal migration and human trafficking, as is also the definition of the Republic of Serbia in the national security strategy. That Agreement shall bring into line the degree of secrecy of the Contracting States documents, lay down central limits for the exchange of classified information, regulate measures for the protection of classified information and their transfer, use of classified information, and determine the procedure in the event of loss, other infringements of the confidentiality of the data supplied. The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would finally like to thank you for your attention and to express my hope that after the debate in the principle and particulars of the proposed law will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14082	Thank you, Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14083	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, representatives of the Ministry of Justice, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I will first address the first point of today's agenda, and this is the proposal for a law on special measures to prevent the conduct of criminal acts against the semi-freedom of minors or the so-called "Maria" law. It is very important to understand that it can be spoken of with two aspects. The first aspect is the legal and technical nature of law enforcement itself, and the other reasons are essential. I would be in this place dealing essentially, instead of in an unwanted manner to view things exclusively technologically, not to get into the essence of the problem. In fact, Serbia is a predominantly Christian country, but even in places where it is not, all religions have the same view of the highest values, and in Christianity, the family is certainly the highest value, these children are the basis of existence, where it is the basic motive of human existence, independent of various liberal perceptions and the need to pass such a law, which stems primarily from our tradition. I look forward to the fact that today the Assembly will discuss this law that protects the family as the basis of our society, both on this law and on the one we are about to discuss, which is the Labour Act. It is very important for one society, each of its members, to ensure freedom for each individual and to take care, and here I am talking about the full freedom, which is unscrupulous, to be punished on the one hand, and on the other hand, to ensure that they do not simply repeat for such crimes, because such monsters of today's society in one harshest way have been trampled on for centuries by citizens of Serbia's tradition. Of course I have a complete understanding of why the promoter insisted on a special bill. I'm asking the Proposer to listen to me, if at all possible. Thank you. So I have an understanding on why the motionor insisted on one specific law, but it should be borne in mind that the legal system should always seek codifications that regulate a particular area. In this case it is the Criminal Code and hence the position of the DHSS that the rules of the so-called so-called "DHSS". "Maria's Code" should be entered into the Criminal Code through its amendments and additions. To that end, I have submitted a proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Code, which, as a special measure of security, would introduce chemical castration or, as it is generally known to us, and in fact its professional name is anti-libidineal treatment, which has been implemented in a good number of countries whose legislation our country can only follow because, ultimately, it is no shame to copy good solutions. If we start from the fact that sexual offenses are the result of deep personality disorders, or to be even more direct, and I'm going to say, the result of a clean pathology of certain minds, then such problems are solved only by retributive measures that mean, in fact, that there is no resocialization and there is no retraining and that the possibility of changing the consciousness and structure of these people is predicated to failure, and that's what DHSS has been talking about for decades and unfortunately, for some reason, it remains lonely. It should be borne in mind, too, that people of such profiles, I am talking about rapists, of course, and I see that many MPs are not interested in this topic, and then they will be called exactly to fight them, usually to repeat, or to do some, actually more serious crimes, and hence insistence on chemical castration is a comprehensive and fully justified way of preventing rapists from repeating those acts that they have already been convicted of. As it is noticeable that our society has already narrowed down to such a form of deviation, which, unfortunately, we witness daily, because more and more frequent cases are both rapes and cases of pedophilia. Such a monster, of course, can be protected and contained only by joint action, both professional and political public. Given above all the progressive growth of such monstrous crimes, it is evident that the general purpose of punishment can only be achieved by introducing a new measure of security, which is precisely chemical castration. This attitude of the DHSS that we've been talking about a year ago is justified, especially if you start from the fact that even criminologists agree in their assessment that the return to rapists and paedophiles is unfortunately 100% and that's something we don't need to interfere with from the mind, unlike the perpetrators of other crimes. If you have a mild criminal policy, as is the case with us, then you sharpen such a criminal policy. If, as a category of persons subject to emergency safety measures, you have drug addicts and alcoholics, then why not introduce a measure of safety, anti-libdinal treatment and conduct it on paedophiles and rapists? In addition, it is particularly important to take into account one fact in return, which is that employees in the detention system must actually take into account that fact, in order to make it completely impossible to apply the parole institute and only when you apply all these methods, and only when all these effects are missing, then it is necessary to apply, of course, what I'm talking about, which is just a chemical castration. If you ask me – how does it work, since many MPs do not understand it, it is not clear to many citizens of the Republic of Serbia? It's actually a simple hormone castration procedure using drugs. Antiandrogenic drugs actually destroy the sexual drive and it's a reversible procedure that doesn't completely affect any physical damage to the one on which it's applied, but it's one method of time-limited control, hormonal changes in the image of people with too much libido, those who can't actually control their drive. This is an easy-to-executive technical procedure, because drugs simply break the link between the pituitary pituitary and the organ that secretes testosterone, which is testicles. If I hadn't gone further into some kind of medical explanation of this, and I could've, I think, kept on this, I think I've said enough about this subject. Of course, in this place, I will quote the late Dr Vladan Batic, his father, for others is Vladan Batic, who, due to his initiative and advocates for the introduction of chemical castration, came across a severe condemnation of the public, as this allegedly violates some constitutional principles. Namely, as he said, I'll quote him, "Article 23. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia declares dignity and free development of a person, and Article 24 declares the right to live. The state is guaranteed the right to life and dignity of a person, it must protect them by all means available. Killing someone during rape is the most terrible violation of personality dignity, violation of the right to life, and therefore chemical castration is perfectly appropriate, even a modest equivalent to protecting these freedoms and rights." This is what Vladan Batic said four years ago. Also, I'll quote something he also said: "I propose chemical castration not as a sanction, but as a measure of security. In the Serbian legal system, we must note that there are those who are being forced to carry out, e.g. mandatory treatment of drug addicts and alcoholics. Then I ask myself, "Why is it that with the same ferocity and enthusiasm, they did not respond to the same human rights fighters, asking for the abolition and the existing security measures, because when such people are bound by chains and injected with different substances, then no one is asking questions about the violation of their integrity, nor is anyone calling for constitutional provisions?" This is what Dr. Vladan Batic said five years ago. Now, I'm sure that chemical castration and the word castration itself is causing a very negative association, but we can't ignore certain facts, which is that this method of preventive anti-crime, however you like, is applied to the monstrosity of the EU countries, and that's what's most important, wanted me to admit it or not. Would you like an example of countries where it is applied on a voluntary basis? There's no problem. Take it, for example. Norway, take Denmark, take Switzerland, Great Britain. Would you like an example of countries where it is applied as a mandatory emergency measure? Take the Czech Republic where 24 castrations were carried out until last year, take Poland where Prime Minister Donald Tusk suggested it, etc. You can also take countries out of Europe, like South Korea, take the Parliament of Estonia. After all, today many are calling for Russia. Russia's Duma adopted a mandatory chemical castration measure in 2012 on the proposal of Dmitri Medvedev. Of course, such a law is undeniable to the fact that the introduction of chemical castration would be greatly welcomed, but it is necessary, of course, to take all those previous measures before its possible application, such as the prescription of longer sentences for rapists and paedophiles, and what I have submitted by the draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, which, of course, this Assembly did not adopt. I hope that the promoter had time to read such a proposal at least, and only by exhausting such an opportunity, I believe that the introduction of chemical castration would be necessary, especially if we are talking about the category of returnees, and such a measure is exclusively for returnees and foresees. Of course, in this special law on special measures, we will actually support criminal acts against semi-freedom towards minors, the SP-DHSS parliamentary group will support in everything that can be contributed, even in one small part, when it comes to the greatest monsters and the greatest monster of modern Serb society, whose victims are minors. However, I think that one more serious, one more difficult step should be taken and that it should go right to the amendment and addition of the Criminal Code. Of course, I also have one question for the promoter, although it is not specifically related to this bill, but let's say, how in the future are you going to protect a girl from, say, 19 to 20 years of age, so a full-time person who is a victim of rape, especially if you take into account the practice that the average punishment for rape is five and a half years, of course, the one that is pronounced by a first-degree verdict, and by appeal can be reduced? Of course, this attitude and everything I've put out so far will not be shared by human rights fighters, I don't expect to share, let me even encounter negative criticism, which I absolutely don't care about, since they stand firmly at the point of view that castration itself is opposed to constitutional order. But before they deny it, as they always do, which is what they usually do today when, in the absence of their own interest, they have to settle in some category, so they become just fighters, I ask them, what is it with the rights of rapists and raped persons and what is it with their rights? Let's not deal with the rights of rapists and paedophiles anymore, but with their victims. That's what these so-called human rights fighters should worry about. It is easy to call upon exactly the violation of constitutional provisions and thus deny chemical castration in general as an opportunity to implement our criminal legislation, but it is extremely difficult to justify the violation of physical, as well as psychological integrity, as well as the rights to life, above all those people who have lost their lives by having just been victims of monstrous minds. It is also easy to refer to the Constitution while other people's children are victims of rapes or victims of paedophiles. That is why DHSS will never give up the idea of introducing a security measure such as chemical castration, since we find it completely justified and we will not allow the victims of the rapist and the victims of the pedophile to be just let in the year n.e. The faces we read about for days on the pages of the black chronicle. So let those same human rights fighters, before they start with negative reactions, I know they will be, and I said, I'm not interested, so I'm going to mention one more time, and all about what I said about chemical castration, let them consult with their wives first, let them consult with their girls, with their mothers, with their daughters, and so on. I think they'll have something to hear. So much for this first point of this united debate. As for the bill of confiscation of property arising from the criminal act, I must commend the promoters and the Ministry of Justice. And it finally happened, and that miracle, that this matter might be likened to the Constitution. You don't need to be a graduate lawyer, you can also be a law school student so it's clear to you that an earlier provision of the law, which allowed the permanent confiscation of property even though criminal proceedings were not completed, was dramatic, not only contrary to the Constitution, but also with an elementary legal logic. In this regard, we believe that the right thing is that the proposer has now presented this matter to the highest legal act. Of course, someone cannot be taken away from the property that came out of the crime without the court’s verdict that the crime was indeed a crime. As far as this law is concerned, I have a little criticism, which I hope the proposer will respect as well-intentioned. I believe that the promoter has made a mistake in failing to immediately comply with the Constitution and the provisions of the laws that now cease to apply. In fact, in the transitional and final provisions of this law, it is envisaged that procedures under the provisions of the first law will be initiated, in accordance with the provisions of this law rather than the provisions of this new law. We thus extend the actual application of the unconstitutional provisions of that first law. In the transitional and final provisions, it was necessary to provide that the proceedings for the permanent confiscation of assets should be initiated under that law, where a judicial ruling has not yet been passed, have to be suspended if a solution has been made for the temporary confiscation of assets, and that the procedure for the permanent confiscation of assets is carried out under the provisions of this law, i.e. that the procedure in those cases should only be initiated when a judicial ruling has been taken. Of course we believe that this bill has shortcomings that I have tried to remove from the amendments. There's a lot of them. I hope that the promoter will read them carefully, which primarily concerns the protection of the security stickers, the protection of damaged and similar things. We have to take care today, especially when we talk about fighting corruption and crime, about how our pursuit of crime control does not create collateral damage to all those people who have no connection with crime. I notice that the proposer, both formerly and this law, is in the drive to deal with crime, has actually forgotten to protect the security and legal owners of the property, as well as the damaged. I fully support the efforts to confiscate the property acquired by crime, but in this House I have to defend those people who have nothing to do with crime, who can be damaged by two goals. On the one hand, it's a state, and on the other hand it's organized crime. In order to protect those categories of faces, I have also submitted amendments that I hope you will read. Part of the amendments I have submitted also apply to the public prosecutor's office at some point are given considerable broad powers, but I think it should be possible for this law to be applied to all crimes, for certain crimes always, and for certain crimes, according to the prosecutor's decision. In this regard, I have also suggested that his powers be extended in one part and another. I suggested that his powers, for example, be reduced in terms of his responsibilities regarding the safes. In any case, both the DHSS and the SPO and this bill came highly constructively with a sincere intention to make this legal solution as best as possible, because it should be borne in mind that this is about fighting crime. As regards the third agenda, the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in combating organised crime and other particularly serious criminal offences, our parliamentary group will surely support this law, because it also brings together a good correction, and in order to increase precision, especially because there are no major amendments. In Article 1 and point 4, I find it a little unclear why the value of the acquired property benefits exceeds 200 million dinars. I think that property threshold might have been smaller, but it's a good bill anyway. As regards the draft law on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure, we will also support it. First of all, praise for this first member, which makes it impossible for the current attractive discrimination of lawyers on the basis of their internships. In the end, I have to take advantage of the presence of the Minister of Justice here and say that today the Assembly had opportunities, you weren't there, to vote for the tightening of one criminal policy concerning, above all, rapists and paedophiles, which was the aim of amending and supplementing the amendment and addition of the Criminal Code that I filed, but it wasn't done. I'm afraid that the same ones who didn't support it today and didn't support it almost everyone, then have no moral right to discuss the first proposed proposal, the so-called Maria Law. Of course, they have no right to even call for the fight against rapists and the fight against paedophiles in the future, or to call on them today to lay down the so - called code of Mary, because it is important that today you submit the drafts of the law they did not even read. The assembly today also had the opportunity to vote on the extension of the lustration, known as the law on liability for human rights violations. Also, many have read nothing, many have not listened to anything and have not voted for it, but those who voted when the law was passed, and I will remind those present here that they were brought here in 2003, when they were sitting in the same government of Dr Zoran Djindjic, but today when the question of an extension of frustration is raised, they do not listen, they do not see etc. I think they got a little carried away and forgot. So much for the seriousness, and for the honor of those few exceptions, which are such bill proposals, which are mine personally, that the draft laws of the MPs of the SPI and DHSS support, which are primarily MPs of SDPS and SVM. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14084	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14085	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we currently have a joint principle debate on five draft laws, as we have heard, which is not an ideal solution and we have not supported the merger of all these points, since it is impossible to talk about all this for so long. In my presentation, I will rely most on the so-called Mary's law. Unfortunately, Mr. Minister can't follow me right now, but just to point out that today, in addition to what we heard in the previous presentation, the National Assembly had the opportunity, we may not have technically had the opportunity yet, but one of your MPs, the lady from the largest ruling parliamentary group, told reporters last week that the National Assembly would be discussing changes and additions to the Criminal Code this week. I don't know if she got confused, she just said we were going to discuss ending sexual delicacy, and that's not happening right now. It was supposed to be a proposal from a female parliamentary network. The children's rights committee discussed it. We don't understand why this proposal isn't here right now. It would be much more logical if they joined together, let's say, those two points, the so-called Mary's law and those amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, because actually abolishing obsolescence is one of the ways that we could help children, minor victims of sexual violence. All of us here today will most likely agree that there is no more serious crime than rape of minors or rape of a child. Unfortunately, the penalties are still relatively or very mild right now and there are many returnees. We know that those who once committed such a crime often do not hesitate to do so many times. For this reason, it is extremely important that there is finally a bill on special measures to prevent crimes against gender freedom against minors, which, as we heard in the presentation of the esteemed minister, firstly foresees police supervision for rapists and paedophiles after a sustained prison sentence and, as I have repeatedly mentioned in the introduction of the public and journalists, this law most often mentions so-called. "Maria's Law" precisely because of the sad story of a girl who was truly beastly raped and murdered three years ago, was only eight years old. The Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians will certainly, in the day of voting, support this bill as I hope all the other MPs and we believe that this law is really necessary to adequately control all perpetrators of such crimes, because we agree that prevention of such disgusting crimes is one of the best ways to avoid them. The question I would ask - is it really stricter sentences and special records of persons convicted of these crimes, that is, as proposed in this proposal, the public registry of paedophiles and rapists, can indeed effectively help prevent crime? In most foreign countries and European countries, it is known who are paedophiles and rapists, who are these sex offenders, and when they get out of prison these people are really being followed, so they are being monitored for their movements and what is logical that they are banned from access to schools, school playgrounds, kindergartens, other places where children gather. After the adoption of this proposal, means, by way of effect of this law, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will also be able to be informed if, say, somewhere near them in the neighborhood, someone who had previously been convicted of this type of crime, since this law, as we have heard it, requires that whenever a person moves out of prison, so, change his residence or place of work, or even when he plans to, say, travel abroad, he must report to the police who runs his file. What's significant, which is finally forbidden by this pedophile law to access exactly those places that I've just mentioned. So schools, school playgrounds, kindergartens, backyards, places where kids are, where there's a lot of kids. It is significant that this proposal stipulates that the information on this mentioned public register or specific records must be kept on a permanent basis and that it is prohibited to delete the data from this record. The Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians hopes that the adoption of this proposal will indeed ensure full protection of children and that all competent authorities, as well as citizens themselves, will know that in the future, if possible, they recognise the potential danger for their child, so to speak, so on. "Maria's Law" regulated, control of rapists and paedophiles. After the adoption of this law after a sustained prison sentence, rapists and pedals would appear every month until the middle of the month at the police station or the Department of Criminal Penalty and would be charged with special officials, who would really care about where they live, where they move, whether they changed their place of residence etc. These measures are expected to really turn down rapists, to be preventive, to prevent them from repeating these acts, so that no child gets hurt in such a brutal way. Unfortunately, there has been no protection in the Republic of Serbia so far. Turns out it was fully possible to move paedophiles and rapists around kindergartens and playgrounds, as well as elsewhere. Sadly, many are the negative consequences of this huge problem, and many have felt on their skin through the suffering of their underage child and tragedy, if there was a fatal outcome. Currently, penalties in the Republic of Serbia are such that if the rape results in the victim's death, it is prescribed for the perpetrator's indiscretion, so a sentence of up to 18 years is intended for the most severe form of rape. If the unsub has conceitedly killed the victim he previously raped, then he will be convicted of murder and rape. The prescribed sentence in this case is 30 to 40 years old. If the rape victim survives, the maximum sentence for rapists is 12 years in prison. Diapazone rape sentences are three, five to eighteen years old, and 10 to 40 years old. The significant measure provided for in this law is Article 5 which prohibits the mitigation of penalties and parole of the perpetrators of these criminal offences to which this proposed law applies. It is important that the state manages to control all convicts who leave prison through public registry and control or surveillance. These are extremely difficult, most serious crimes, creepy and very scary and all of us citizens and parents themselves would surely in these cases wish the most severe punishment for the perpetrators of these acts. Many would probably want a death sentence for the perpetrators of such acts, but it is impossible in the Republic of Serbia, as well as a life sentence, which may be even more adequate in terms of suffering and years to pass, but we do not have that kind of punishment either. This is where the chemical castration was mentioned. Probably many of us have some personal opinion that we would agree to, but what I read is that in these cases, chemical castration is not an adequate solution, since in these cases it is often not a classical form of child's promise, but rather other types of sexual abuse of children, which can be committed and already castrated by the perpetrator. That's why it's most important to build a mechanism that would maximise prevention. The most important preventive measure is the introduction of this public register of paedophiles, all those who are both processed and convicted. In the future, the register should pose a threat to all paedophiles that will thus be marked or strigmatised. The next question that is being asked is whether our system is sufficiently developed and mature enough to have the opportunity to track these convicts when they get out of prison. According to some statistics, if I may say so, fortunately, these types of crimes are not too much in the Republic of Serbia. This would mean that the state will be able to control those persons more easily after they have been punished. That is why it is very important, in addition to the adoption, the vote, the subsequent application of this law, that the police have better contact with the citizens, that they provide information to the citizens, and that they receive the same information from the citizens themselves. It is good that this proposal prescribes what we have heard in the opening statement of Mr. Minister, that the days of lawfulness of the convictions for the aforementioned crimes, legal consequences arise in the form of termination of public office, working relationship, or the making of calls or occupations relating to working with minors, as well as the ban on obtaining these same public functions or establishing a working relationship, i.e. making calls or occupations relating to working with minors. These legal consequences are proposed to last 20 years after the prison sentence, which is double or double what has been prescribed by the Criminal Code so far. As we have heard, the Republic of Serbia has also confirmed the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse, so-called. The Lancaro Convention among the first. This has forced our country to prevent and prosecute crimes established in accordance with this so-called. The Lancaro Convention shall take all necessary legislative or other measures for the collection of data relating to the identity or genetic profile of the DNA of these convicted persons, for criminal offences established in accordance with the Convention. Keeping data on the DNA profile of convicted persons is one big newspaper in our criminal-legal legislation, which certainly SVM supports. As I said, we will support this law that hopefully will really contribute to the safety and safety of children. Since time allows me a little more, allow me, as I have pointed out in the very introduction of my address, and we will be obliged to think that it is important that, in addition to the adoption of this law, as early as possible on the agenda of the National Assembly, we have the proposed amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, which are currently relevant to the abolition of the ageing of sexual delicacies against children, because according to the current law in the Republic of Serbia, sexual violence committed to the child is currently, at the moment, still ageing six years after the latest incident of sexual abuse. According to some research by NGOs, which deal with this issue, we have received various data. One of them is that the age of the first incident of sexual violence is on average about eight years and several months of child abuse, and the duration of sexual abuse is most often several years, on average even over five years. If we really want to help and protect minors effectively, as well as to establish a functioning mechanism to prevent victims from being killed, it is necessary to introduce appropriate changes into the Criminal Code. The so-called so-called The Lancaro Convention, the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Abuse, as well as the Convention on the Rights of the Child, obliges the Signatory States to adapt their legislation, among other things, to ensure that the ageing of criminal prosecution does not occur during a sufficiently long period after the victim's age. According to some estimates, it takes more than nine years for victims to report years of abuse. Therefore, it is clear that the existing ageing deadlines are very short and ineffective to prosecute perpetrators of semi-freedom committed to minors, which means that the current ageing of these sexual delinquents over children in the Criminal Code often leads, in many cases to the disallowation of the reporting and processing of perpetrators of those crimes, and the consequences of sexual violence against minors are serious and are mainly reflected throughout their lives, so the abolition of obsolescence would be one of the most effective aspects of preventing these crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14086	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14087	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow Members, at first I would like to say that the JS parliamentary group will support all the laws in the area of the judiciary that we are talking about today, and before someone who looks at the proposed text of the law, I did not take the opportunity as chairman of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government to say that I would not take time twice. I would only like to say in one sentence that today, at a meeting of the Committee, all the draft laws are unanimously accepted in principle. The meeting was attended by MPs of position and opposition, which means that they all gave the green light to accept these laws in principle. Also, on behalf of the JS parliamentary group, I think these laws are good and should be accepted, with certain useful and quality changes, which will occur when the amendments are considered. When we talk about the first law, which is, in all likelihood, the most challenging of attention, which is the draft law on special measures to prevent crimes against gender freedom against minors, I would like to remind you that in this Assembly three years ago we adopted the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Abuse, where it was also the obligation of this country to put before the MPs a bill of this kind that we have before us today. What I particularly want to praise is that this is the Ministry of Justice and State Administration, this Government of the Republic of Serbia, has accepted the earlier text of the proposal that the Ministry of Justice has already prepared, but for well-known reasons has not come into the assembly procedure for consideration. It's just proof that one continuity in the adoption of laws, those good laws, must exist, and there will always be no matter who it comes from or who prepared it and let it into the procedure. In this way, the ministry has shown that it appreciated the work of earlier ministries in that part of the law, as well as other laws. What I particularly want to point out is this is about protection, and the law itself says it's about protecting minors. On behalf of the JS parliamentary group, however, I would like to appeal to the Ministry for future preparation of any other text of the law or for inspecting existing laws, in order to protect the full-time persons who allow the same or similar abuses of semi-freedom by those who thus wish to satisfy some of their perversions. It has also been said today that certain persons who are convicted of abuse of gender freedom over minors are banned from appearing in preschools or kindergartens, schools or schoolyards and other places where minors gather and cannot be employed in such institutions or organisations. This is especially good because today in Serbia, unfortunately, we have a lot of returnees, and we can also track it through the press and various other media, that many who have endured a certain time sentence in certain prisons for these types of works, that after a certain time they re-emerge with the doing of the same or similar works. In order to prevent that from happening, it is this very intensity that is foreseen by the draft of this law that should at least prevent those perpetrators from thinking they can commit that crime again. I wouldn't take much time and repeat what was said before. I just want to say once again that it's good to adopt this law, because besides what it is our obligation, it's good and to protect our children, our youth from those who tend to commit these crimes. This second law, which is also before us today for consideration, is the proposal for a law on the confiscation of property arising from a crime, we get as a whole new law. In fact, I heard that we should have gone with the amendments and additions to the existing law, that more than 50% of these members should be changed, etc., so it went with a proposal for a brand new law, which I think is completely justified, and in a law-based way, it's the only legal way to get to the new law. In order not to talk about what this law is about, which Mr. Minister has very extensively and extensively informed us, I particularly welcome the provision of a law that goes towards the fact that in the permanent confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts, it went to the fact that the first has to be a judicial end of criminal proceedings and that someone has come to some advantage, that they have acquired some property by doing a certain crime. Unfortunately, in the past, we have had cases that individuals were deprived of property although it was not proven that they had committed a crime, i.e. that the property was derived from the act of the crime, so we came to a situation where the property had to be returned afterwards, etc. We've had such situations that according to certain celebrities, I'm not going to mention any name here so that I don't forget someone, that property was taken away and some work that was done in 10 or more years after the acquisition of some property. Is it possible to confiscate property from someone who acquired property in the 1990s in a legal way, because it was later found that in 2000 and some years he committed a crime and that it connects, that the property from those 10 or 15 years earlier is linked to the crime? I think that such simplification and connection of property in an earlier acquired period with a criminal act that has not yet been proven has been a legal absurdity. It is good that in many cases the right decision has occurred and that the property has not been taken away from those persons. This law is good because it determines when, under which conditions, property is temporarily taken away, when and under what conditions the property is completely, permanently taken away, who has the property, how, when it becomes state property, whether it is the property of a natural person, whether it is a legal person, a legal entity, etc. For all these reasons, I say once again, we in the JS are giving absolute support to this law and when there is a vote on it both in principle and in particular, and if there are good amendments, we will accept them. I'd only like two sentences on the other two laws. In particular, it is good that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code on Criminal Procedure gives the right to replace a lawyer, which has not been the case so far. I think that this allows young lawyers and gives them the chance to prove themselves and show that they can defend the perpetrators of certain crimes in a way that threatens the sentence of up to five years in prison. In the end, once again, we from the JS feel that all these laws are good, that they should be supported. In Voting Day, I call on all my colleagues and colleagues, whether they are in position or opposition, to look up to the Committee on Justice and State Administration and local self-government and to vote in favour of the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14088	The word has a folk MP, Mirna Kosanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14089	The President-in-Office, respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, we today have several draft laws that are important for the completion of the protection of our citizens in the criminal justice area, so we will say a few sentences about each of these laws, by making a second timetable, namely the law concerning the measures to prevent criminal acts against minors, as I would leave the SDPS behind. I propose certain recommendations, or recommendations that would be preventive, so as not to deal with the law itself, but we invite you to listen to the preventive measures that we would suggest today. As regards the draft law on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure, the law has several newspapers, i.e. several amendments relating to the possibility of representing the accused by the defendant without obligation that the defender has a special internship as a lawyer for criminal offences for which a 10-year sentence has been threatened and a more severe sentence. Since the right to elect defenders is the constitutional right of the accused and the proposed amendment does not, in fact, restrict this right, as previously done, also refers to the introduction of specific evidence actions for criminal offences which are included in the December 2012 criminal code and which are committed against the economy, the abuse of public procurement, the endangerment of persons under international protection and similar acts. Then, when the reasons set out in Article 211 paragraph 1 are met, to introduce the possibility of determining detention after a first-degree sentence. 1st and 3rd. The law thus fills the legal gap set out in the 2011 Code of Criminal Procedure. This means that after the verdict is handed down, the court will actually question whether there are grounds for detention, so if there are, the detention will be extended until the convicted person has been sent to the Criminal Penalty Office. As regards the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation of the Authority's Jurisdiction in the Prevention of Organized Crime, Corruption and Other Major Crimes, the existing Law has established the competent specialised state authorities for the detection, prosecution and trial in the proceedings of organised crime, high corruption and other serious acts. As amendments and additions to the Criminal Code have been amended and a number of criminal offences are precise, it is also necessary to make amendments to this law, in order to extend the jurisdiction of specialised state authorities acting under this law to the new acts described in order for these authorities to act in new cases as well. It is thought of crimes of abuse of the position of responsible person, abuse of public procurement, terrorist acts, etc. It was also necessary for the provisions of the existing laws relating to the official secret to be brought into line with the Data Securitisation Act, which was also done with this proposal. The official secret is defined as classified in accordance with a law governing the confidentiality of information, while the area of official secrecy is defined as keeping classified information. The proposal for a law on the confiscation of property arising from criminal offences, the provisions of this law stipulate that the state authorities in law enforcement, we consider it important, shall take account of the honor and dignity of the owners, and shall make sure that the data collected are classified information which cannot be given or given in accordance with the Data Securitisation Act. This law, given that amendments to the Criminal Code and the update of criminal offences have been made, shall regulate the conditions and procedures, as well as the authorities responsible for the detection, confiscation and management of the property of natural and legal persons resulting from the criminal offence. In fact, it's about the property of the owner who's obviously disproportionate to his legitimate incomes. The confiscation of property may be temporary, may be permanent, and the circle of the persons against whom the case is conducted shall include the suspect, the accused, the associate, the abandoner, the heirs or the third party to whom the property has been transferred. The procedure was initiated by a financial investigation initiated and managed by a public prosecutor, during which evidence was collected of property with legal incomes and the cost of the life of the accused associate and leaver. The temporary confiscation of property exists when there is a danger, that subsequent confiscation would be difficult or disabled, while there is a permanent existence following the delivery of a judicial verdict, which found a criminal offence. This is a very significant change since in this way it actually avoids parallel conduct of proceedings for the confiscation of assets and criminal proceedings. The seized property is managed by the Directorate, with the fact that if it is property of some historical or cultural value, it will turn itself over to guarding the relevant institutions. It is very important that the property can be sold and that the funds will then be entered into the Republic budget. What is particularly important is that there is harmonisation of existing laws and that these proposals on international documents are being taken into account in this area, as confirmed by the Republic of Serbia, such as the United Nations Convention against Illegal Trade in Narcotics and Psychotropic Substances, the Council of Europe Convention on Laundering, Disclosure, Confiscation of Crime Income and Other Conventions. The experience of other countries, as well as the experience, or judgments that are relevant, of the European Court of Human Rights, has been used. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia believes that the adoption of such a law will actually put considerable resources into the Republic of Serbia's budget, as has been demonstrated in the current application of this law, which has produced good results, so this will affect the better standard of Serbian citizens. As regards the proposal for a law on special measures to prevent the conduct of crimes against semi-freedom against minors, we believe that this proposal prescribes specific measures to be carried out against the perpetrators of semi-freedom, which have been committed according to minors, to regulate the introduction of a special record for persons convicted of such offences. Article 37 The Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Abuse, confirmed by the National Assembly in May 2010, is obliged by Member States to take all necessary legislative and other measures to collect data relating to the identity and genetic profile of persons convicted of criminal offences established by this Convention, and there are also recommendations from the EU in the fight against sexual exploitation, as well as the practice of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. The purpose of the law is to prevent the perpetrators of acts against minors from doing these acts in the future, to determine the circle of the person on which it applies, as regards the perpetrator of the crimes against half-freedom against minors. Important provisions are also that the law prohibits the release of penalties, the parole of the perpetrator of criminal offences, as well as the fact that the day of law enforcement for these acts is a mandatory act of legal consequence of the conviction, which is the termination of public office, the termination of employment, the conduct of calls or occupations relating to working with minors, the prohibition of the establishment of a working relationship for those persons and the making of calls relating to work with minors. These legal consequences last 20 years after a jail sentence. After a prison sentence, special measures will apply, which are mandatory to the competent authority of police and criminal sanctions enforcement, the ban on visiting places where minors are gathered, the mandatory visitation of professional counselling centres, the mandatory notification of changes in residence and residence, as well as the workplace, as well as the mandatory notification of travel abroad for international co-operation in countering the criminal act of sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. The law provides for special records of the perpetrator, where other than general data are entered and data on the DNA profile, which is the newspaper in our legislation. This data is stored permanently and is not allowed to delete the data. The national authorities, employers and other persons working with minors are obliged to request data on whether a person based on a working relationship is listed in a special record, in order to prevent the application and prevention of the establishment of a working relationship and contact of those persons with minors. The provisions of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation can also show that sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of children to such an extent have been frequented to achieve a worrying situation, both at national and international level, especially when children and perpetrators are increasingly using information and communication technologies, and that sexual exploitation and the fight against them is needed and necessary international co-operation. While the welfare and best interests of children are fundamental values shared by all countries, they must be promoted without discrimination. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia believes that regardless of the legal solutions given, which are good and which we will support in the voting day, special attention should be paid in everyday life to preventive measures so that this does not happen, i.e. that minors do not find themselves in a position to prove that a crime has been committed. What we think is necessary as a prevention, which is to prevent all forms of sexual exploitation and abuse, to protect children, more about training and raising the level of awareness of children, to encourage awareness of the protection of children, about the rights of children who are in regular contact, on a daily basis, with these children, and about education, health, social protection, justice and police activities, as well as in other areas, such as sport, culture and other activities. We believe it is necessary to ensure by legislative and other measures that persons concerned have adequate knowledge of sexual exploitation and abuse, as well as that they can identify exploitation. Also, to ensure that conditions for professional activities that involve regular contact with children, that candidates working with children or getting into regular relationships are never in a position to be convicted of such acts against gender freedom. It is also important to encourage the media to provide adequate information regarding all aspects of child abuse and abuse. It would be good to encourage projects and programmes dealing with these problems. I believe that by adopting the proposed legal solutions, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will contribute to the establishment of protection against violence, as a condition for achieving democracy, meeting human rights and harmonising with European values, and, in that sense, we will support the adoption of the proposed laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14090	The word has a folk MP, Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14091	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, a set of laws that we are discussing today, which regulate issues from the domain of criminal acts, are certainly a good basis for preventing criminal acts, thus enabling the normal functioning of society and state. That is why the PUPS parliamentary group will support these draft laws in the voting day. Proposal for a law on special measures to prevent crimes against semi-freedom against minors. We heard at the beginning of Mr. Minister's statement that the previous period increased the number of crimes against semi-freedom committed against minors. That is why it is necessary for minors to be further protected by the adoption of such a law, which, in addition to existing regulations, criminal sanctions, introduces special measures prescribed by this law, will reduce criminal offences and the perpetrators of these acts will return to do those acts, i.e. not to pass without proper punishment in the next period. This law sanctions all procedures and actions relating to the abuse of minors. In the part of full freedom and with the application of other laws that regulate crimes, and above all, the Code of Criminal Penalty, the Code of Criminal Procedure, we will have a safer protection of minors. We are under the obligation to pass one of these laws that prescribes special measures against the perpetrators of these crimes, and precisely because we are signatories of certain international documents from this topic, and above all, the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse. The prescribed ban on the mitigation of measures, penalties and conditions of dismissal, the perpetrator of criminal offences, to which this law applies, as well as the legal consequences of convictions, are the consequences of a permanent conviction, which are the termination of public office, termination of employment, termination of work with minors and a series of other public convictions. This certainly adds to the deterrence of criminal acts against gender freedom towards minors. This law also provides for measures to be implemented and to prevent such crimes from taking place after the punishment. First of all, police control over the perpetrators of these acts, or as one of the convictions, the perpetrators are obliged to appear in the next period, and this is a form of prevention that affects the prevention of such acts. The introduction of a special record conducted by the Criminal Sanctions Administration achieves the centralisation of the database for such perpetrators, which enables more effective monitoring of the implementation of this law and facilitates access to the necessary data in the authorities responsible for combating crimes against sexual freedom, both in the country and abroad. In addition, it is prescribed that data in the specific record are kept permanently, and that data from the specific records are not allowed to be deleted, which means that the perpetrators of such crimes are constantly marked and this procedure, in some ways, prevents them from further making such crimes. The papers prescribed in Article 15, in relation to the applicable rules governing the keeping of criminal records, as well as the solution that state and other bodies, as well as legal entities, entrepreneurs working with minors, are obliged to request information - whether the person to establish a working relationship with them is registered in a special record, is allowed to be given a consistent application of the legal judgment of this law. We had in the present time to compete on some public function two basic documents that were needed, judicial and police. Now it's necessary, for someone who wants to work in such institutions or institutions, and for the confirmation of this institution. The provision of high penalties for legal and natural persons for violations under this law will certainly have a positive impact on the consistency of the implementation of the provisions of this law. The deadlines given, in time of 90 days for the adoption of sublegal acts, which would allow for the full implementation of this law, is certainly a reasonable time and should be reduced, and so that this law becomes effective as soon as possible, all in order to protect minors. There's something I'd like to say about the bill of confiscation of property arising from criminal acts. We heard that the law on confiscation of property stemmed from a criminal offence, which was brought into effect in 2008, and in 2009, gave very good results in the repression of organised crime and high corruption. The reason for the adoption of the new law, among other things, is that – in the previous four-year application of this law, certain problems have arisen that required more changes and additions to this law, and with this logic were not in addition to the amendments, but a complete creation of a new law on the confiscation of property arising from the criminal act. By adopting a new law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence, it is necessary, in order to comply with new laws, which have been passed in the previous period, i.e. in the last two years, concerning the Criminal Code and the Law on the confiscation of property and the Criminal Procedure Act. Consistent with these laws is also an obligation to this law. This law specifies the additional competences of the Financial Investigation Unit and the Asset Management Directorate, and in order to effectively conduct these bodies, both in the phase of the discovery of property arising from the criminal offence and in the management of the temporarily seized property. The need to bring this law into line with the provisions of international documents and conventions confirmed by the Republic of Serbia also obliges us to pass this law. In particular, as this law points out, in addition to the property of the owner who is obviously disproportionate to his legal income, this law also regulates the financial investigation and collects evidence of the accused associate and leaver, as well as evidence of the property inherited by the legal successor, i.e. evidence of the property, the fee for which the property was transferred to a third party. The property of these very faces is large and no one is freed by this law, on any basis that he acquired property illegally. The establishment of the directorates, as bodies within the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration, enables the management of the seized assets resulting from the criminal offence, as well as the keeping of records of the seized property, and its assessment. The directorate is obliged to manage the taken property with attention. In order to ensure more efficient management of the seized assets, it was given the authority of the minister responsible for the judiciary to bring the sublegal act closer to the regulation of the procedures of the Directorate. For the severance of property, the Directorate is obliged to make a record and keep a special record, and the funds received by management and sale of movable assets are kept in a special account of the Directorate and can be used to recover property and ex post damages and costs. Property and money, obtained by the sale of temporarily or continuously seized assets, becomes the property of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the funds arising from the sale and the assets are paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia and thus contributes to the increase of the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The newspaper is also the authority given to a public prosecutor, who can apply for temporary confiscation of property, when there is a danger that subsequent confiscation of that property would be difficult or disabled, as well as the adoption of orders to ban the availability of the property and before deciding on its request. We at PUPS have, on the provisions of this law, proposed one amendment to Article 24 which will later be explained in more detail. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Organisation of the Jurisdiction of State Authorities in combating organised crime, corruption and other particularly serious criminal offences. The adoption of these amendments to this law is necessary in order to comply with the two laws recently passed and with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code, which we adopted in 2012, and to comply with the Data Securitisation Act. These laws have been amended, in particular in Article 16(5) and Article 17. The law on the organisation of the jurisdiction of state authorities to combat organised crime, corruption and other particularly serious criminal offences, in order to bring those provisions into line with the Data Securitisation Act. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act. By amending and supplementing this law, there are no fundamental changes to this law, but by amending Article 73 allows a trainee's lawyer to replace a defendant in criminal proceedings for which a prison sentence is prescribed for up to five years. A large number of debaters have just approved this amendment, thus allowing young lawyers and young people to be in a level playing field with lawyers who have more work experience and thus allowing younger people to come to terms. Also, to this law, the PUPS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment that will be subsequently reasoned. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on mutual protection and exchange of classified information. With this law confirming the Agreement with the Republic of Bulgaria, we contribute to bilateral co-operation between our country and Bulgaria, creating conditions for more intensive co-operation between the two countries belonging to the Southeast European region. It is certainly important for us that Bulgaria is an EU member and a NATO member, and we as a central country of the Western Balkans. Also, confirming this agreement opens up opportunities for regional co-operation in the fields of joint training and the engagement of security, crisis and border management elements, counter-terrorism, organised crime and corruption, illegal migration and human trafficking. The PUPS parliamentary group, following this debate and debate in particular and possibly improving these laws through amendments, will support a set of these laws in the voting day and will vote for the adoption of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14092	The word is made by MP Dragan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14093	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, we of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina have always been about bringing the perpetrators of the crimes before the face of justice and the law of punishment, and when it comes to those who were as hooligans being implemented into cheerleading groups, and when foreign embassies were burned, that is why we are, and when it comes to perpetrators of criminal acts against minors, especially when it comes to a group of such serious crimes. I would not, as some of my colleagues of the predecessors, read the provisions of these laws that have been proposed, only to make sure that, in accordance with the individual amendments that we as a parliamentary group have proposed and which will certainly be spoken of later, I point out a few facts. First of all, I don't think there's any dilemma that this law and this law should be passed, whether in the text proposed or with certain changes, we'll see. What we consider, as we have amended and suggested, is that in Article 5 of this Law, which concerns the legal consequences of the conviction, as provided for, as well as in Article 3, it is also a criminal part of the progeny, so that the measure of banning parental law can be applied. No matter what a group of crimes, we feel it was necessary for this crime to be found as a criminal offence to be applied to. We have certainly adopted the Lanzaro Convention and we have implemented the provisions of this Convention and in this law, which is certainly good. However, we also believe that it is necessary to sharpen the criminal policy itself in relation to these crimes, since we now have a situation that some crimes can also be subject to fines, i.e. conditional convictions. We think that this is the way to go in the future and we hope that you will have it in mind in the future when you come more seriously to this subject which is really very serious, given that the increase in these crimes, as some of my colleagues have said in their presentation, and that is an obvious fact, the return to these crimes is almost 100%. So, I think that criminal policy should be tightened first of all, and we're going to support this law anyway. In relation to the other laws that are in this united debate, I would refer to amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure. You, Mr. Minister, have mentioned that there is a more serious amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, and that for that reason, some of these are, to call them, cosmetic changes. First of all, I would like to commend the amendment of this Article 73, since I know that an initiative has been launched to assess the constitutionality of this member. I don't know if the Constitutional Court has made a decision in this case. If not, you were ahead of the Constitutional Court, which is in any case positive, given that at the appointment of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court you called for the Constitutional Court's decision, which did not apply to this, but we are not going to talk about it now. So it certainly was a restriction, both the rights to work guaranteed by the Constitution, in relation to one number of my fellow lawyers, and in relation to the free choice of defenders by whoever is in the criminal proceedings suspect, so it is in any case commendable. In relation to the provisions on detention, i.e. the provision of Article 425a, as you have called it, relating to the determination, or extension of detention after the first-degree decision has been made, I would have to say that I consider it to be a provision which was a legal void, but it is certainly in the provisions on detention that have been resolved in any way, so I think you could have realized that for that change you are planning in the future, for which we will see what it will be. In relation to these other two laws, the proposal for a law on the confiscation of property stemmed from a criminal offence and the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the prevention of organised crime, corruption and other particularly serious criminal offences, which I might notice is that, of course, by harmonising the rules, you have also introduced a criminal offence of abuse of official position. But there is a special relationship between the EU and this criminal act, given that the European Parliament's Enlargement Report on 29 March 2012 issued a recommendation that this type of crime should not be charged in the future, namely to give up the indictment precisely because there were certain doubts in terms of restricting the availability of the property of those who have been charged with these crimes, i.e. precisely that the detention of the perpetrators of these crimes takes a disproportionate lengthy lengthy time. That would be one suggestion. I expected it to be when the Penal Code was changed in a happier way, but unfortunately it didn't happen. Well, that's just one suggestion, if we're already going that European way, then let's adopt some of those recommendations that the European Parliament is sending us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14094	Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14095	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have found here the need to report precisely to this final exhibit. It has been an honor and pleasure to have, along with my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, on an interparliamentary dialogue with the European Parliament, which took place two weeks ago in Brussels, when we had this particular topic on the agenda, given a brief look at this legal solution, when it comes to not only the criminal offence of the abuse of official position in Article 359 but also the newly defined criminal act of abuse by the responsible person, which is Article 234. So it is true that a kind of caution has been given by European parliamentarians. Of course, what I took the opportunity to get to know them, as I was saying here when we entered the amendments and additions of the Criminal Code in December of last year, is that it was some kind of transitional solutions. As a country in transition, which faces many problems, as a country that has since 1957 had such a defined crime of abuse of official position, which included a responsible person then in social property enterprises, we are now in a situation where we have over 5,000 proceedings, where people are accused of these crimes. Of course, one caution has been shown and particular attention has been paid not to allow the mere requalification of all the abuse of the official position in abuse by the responsible person, for it cannot be so. We know that the owner has been excluded, we know that the criminal maximum has been reduced, we also know that, as a consequence, only unlawfully acquired property benefit has been introduced, and in the direct dialogue that we had with the European parliamentarians, there were representatives of the LDP who attended the debate, I can say that we have exposed these doubts that existed possibly in the legality of the conduct of the state authorities. What's very important and where they express their concerns, not in the last two, three or eight months, but for many years, is whether it's a crime of abuse of the official position that has served many previous warrants in power that, through some authorities, such as the prosecution, they're misusing a broad, I can freely say, generic incriminating in that criminal part of abuse of official position. It is certainly something that requires a more extensive revision of the entire chapter of our Criminal Code, where we will redefine every crime in business, place it on a different base, and thereby narrow down the significant possibility of abuse of certain legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14096	Thank you. On what basis are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14097	To the Minister's presentation, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14098	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14099	Thank you. Thank you for this information. You're certainly much better at all this. I pointed out this for a reason when it comes to private property covered by the incrimination of this crime. So it's absolutely undeniable when it comes to property that's state-owned. I believe there's been a certain legal vacuum here, but I think this recommendation was essentially very clear. In practice, it's a very common case that owners and private firms are being accused and convicted, which in my opinion is inadmissible for both crimes, but I understood what you wanted to say. This is all I wanted to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14100	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the agenda, in fact, a set of judicial laws, these are laws relating directly to certain criminal acts, we have two additions and amendments to the law, and we have two new laws. These changes and additions represent laws of short, obvious and short range. Both laws have four members each, of which one member refers to the date of entry into force of the law in question. We have certain technical changes in two laws and we have a certain ambition of the bill's promoter in these two new ones. So, this law on full freedoms towards minors is obviously the most intriguing law and it is completely new to the Serbian judiciary and, in fact, is obviously the greatest public attention. This second law, the law on the confiscation of property arising from the criminal act, represents, in fact, the revision of the already existing law, so it represents a new law, in that you no longer wanted to change that law, but simply, to make one new one, although in the light of why this new law is proposed, you claim to be satisfied with the current law, but you simply need to change certain members, and that is more than 50%. So, I don't know why you're changing, if you're so happy with that law, and that, in fact, has produced that need to write a whole new law and propose to Parliament. So, I would concentrate on the explanation of both law and law because, by reading the arguments of the law, we agree on a lot. The Liberal Democratic Party agrees with any law that has the ambition to strengthen legal certainty. In fact, you cited it as a reason for passing both laws. What does legal certainty mean? Well, that's when you draw certain goals, and specifically in this law, in order to prevent criminal acts from being committed against semi-freedom towards minors, the primary goal is to prevent these crimes from being committed, to prevent relapses, to have a clear record of all those perpetrators convicted of taking certain special measures and to actually foresee certain legal consequences for those persons after the execution, or after serving a prison sentence. When we look at it, we really don't mind taking care of who did the crime, who's who's the potential re-executor, and we're not against victims and potential victims of protection. So, the LDP is for those goals that you have stated, the LDP supports the protection of minors from every type of violence, and even from this type of violence where it is threatened with semi-freedom. That's where I'd stop by to praise you and point out what's good in the bill. So there are good reasons and good goals in the bill. What is it that is missing from this bill? There's one crucial thing missing. So, there's something missing that, in fact, is the core of a possible positive end to a court case against a certain perpetrator of a crime, which is the existence of obsolescence, and you have not avoided this possibility by this bill of law that some of the crimes involved in the semi-freedom of minors may not become obsolete. It's simply inadmissible, because we are witnessing that there have been a lot of out-of-date crimes involving the endangerment and violation of the adult freedoms of minors. Let me remind you, this is a procedure led against Ilarion. It's a procedure led against the bishop of Pahomi. Aren't these drastic examples and terrible examples? They did! It's just that these crimes are out of date, and criminal prosecution and the execution of criminal sanctions. We are witnessing the re-launching of the issue of a new, second crime against the semi-freedom of a minor allegedly committed by the same bishop of Pahomia, against whom the proceedings have become obsolete. Here, let's say, a case that gives you enough arguments to think about whether it takes this indemnity to be an integral part of this law or not? In my opinion, you should. If you're not ready to change the Criminal Code in that sense, let's do it in this code. Do it to prevent at least that possibility that if a criminal procedure is initiated, that for various reasons, whether because of ignorance, whether because of haughtiness, whether political pressures and all other pressures can cause such a terrible crime against a minor to become obsolete somewhere in the process. You, Mr. Minister, as minister, are aware of the position the Serbian judiciary is in. You're aware of the changes you've been making over the past seven months in that judiciary, how minor these changes are, technically, without any particular significance, and that's what the Venice Commission claims. You are aware of how suddenly returned, completely unforeseeable, all those judges who were not elected in 2009-2010 were returned. We have a large number of judges, you know that very well. We've got a completely unsettled judiciary. We have a problem with the conduct of criminal proceedings, as I mentioned earlier. Then what's going on? What happens is that you replace the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and then appoint, appoint, appoint, support the judge who was the President of the Council in one of these proceedings against Ilarion. Thus, an outdated procedure led against semi-freedom regarding a minor in a procedure led by today's President of the Supreme Court of Cassation and acting as chairman of the High Council of the judiciary. Is that the kind of positive change you've announced? Is this the reform that you have so loudly announced when you so negatively pleaded to everything that has been done in the past three, four years regarding judicial reform? You, Mr. Minister, were also talking about the victim being protected, that the victim should be in the first place. I would remind you that one of your officials who publicly promoted the weapon that killed Prime Minister Djindjic is sitting in your ministry. Can you tell me if it's natural for a Justice and State Department to sit down and work for a man who publicly publishes a weapon? So we can only assume that it's some kind of promotion and support for everything that's happened with that weapon. Could such a person be part of the Justice Department team? Mr. Minister, you've repeatedly shown the way you think you work, run, run that ministry. You showed it when you publicly demonstrated in front of this Parliament's building, while parliament sat down, with extremists. You also showed it when you didn't publicly fence from certain extremist statements on a television show... (President: Please return to the topic. It's not the subject or the minister, nor... . Go back to the subject, please. It is an object. Because it is, Mr. Chairman, that we have on the agenda a draft law of a very sensitive nature, which really represents a newspaper for this criminal law in Serbia, because we have victims who have initiated their sacrifice to write this law and propose it to parliament. Then what's going on? The key things in this bill are left out. You're now asking us for blank support, asking us to confirm some of your political points that you think you get by putting this law on Parliament's agenda. You expect certain political benefits, and do you seriously think, when you have proposed this law, that you will achieve these goals and those results that you stated in the reasoning of the law? That is a very important question. I'm just giving you some examples. What is it that bothers us when the minister of justice calls for justice and legality, when the minister of justice calls for the protection of the victim, when the minister of justice comes and defends this kind of law? This is what is, in fact, such a small difference from what has been declared, and in fact it is a serious problem for the Serbian judiciary and in general for all the positive regulations that will arise and that arise from the work of the Justice Ministry. The Liberal Democratic Party cannot and will not be safe against the law that will be fought, which will represent one dam against such criminals that threaten every safety of minors, including half-freedom and half-security. We can't be against it and we won't be against it, but how do we support this law when we see that there are such shortcomings that they simply won't be able to give the results expected of this law. For instance, Norway. Norway has only 10 percent relapses, and there is no special law. Norway has no specific record of all convicted perpetrators of this type of crime. We refer to the experiences of other countries that have special laws and have records of all these crimes. But first of all, we need to take care of the conditions in which we live, what are the conditions we have, starting with what kind of justice we have, and further, as the laws apply, what is the government's contribution and the ministries as far as regulations are concerned? It's all necessary to actually make one good law. If you have that kind of deficiency at first, then what else do you expect when it comes to the application of this law? In the law of confiscation of property arising from the crime, you could already show that ambition of yours and your intention to really change something about crimes against half-freedom. You could have, say, inserted one point that would have been about taking away the property's benefit from the crime, say, prostitution, subjugation. These are the crimes against the full freedoms. You could have put that in as a good will to really know what it means to commit a crime against half-freedom, that you really intend to protect the victim. These two laws would actually complement each other and these two laws would actually give, normally in that improved vision, far better results than can be expected with the existing texts of the law. So, Mr. Minister, unfortunately, we have been aware in the past few months that you are somehow exhausting yourself in these laws that, after all, do not mean any more significant changes in improvements or changes in the existing state, and that somehow you keep that status quo without a serious ambition to change that status quo. It's about the fact that the judiciary doesn't change. The judiciary has returned to your previous state, I assume you are now satisfied with that condition. That judiciary is actually a broken-down ship that doesn't even know which direction it's going, and apparently you're not very interested in it either. In view of the origins of this entire political group that you represent today, and you know well that you were once an SRS. How can we expect a more significant change and a little more ambition for that ship not to be sown, and that ship I said is called the Serbian judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14102	The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14103	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, has recently been very noticeable by one intensive activity of the Ministry of Justice and all the bodies associated with the Ministry. We could hear from that activity recently, and today, that the national strategy for judicial reform would soon be over, that it would soon be in front of the MPs. We have also heard that the Venice Commission has largely positively assessed three draft laws on judges, prosecutors, court-ordering. We've heard some disturbing news when it comes to the DSS that it's likely to change the Constitution. We have heard an encouraging news that members of the High Council of the Judges will be invited to resign. Of course, I am pleased, I express my satisfaction if this latest news is realized, because it would mean that our proposal, which I have most spoken of here in the Assembly, is that it is necessary to determine the responsibility of all members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, will finally be partially and indirectly adopted. Of course, he would have been fully adopted if a new law on the High Council of Justice had been passed, and if there had been no room for former members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, whose responsibility is undoubtedly the greatest in the case of the failure of judicial reform, they would simply not have passed the assessment of responsibility, so that I could most easily express what I wanted. I think if that did happen, it would be another confirmation, if we were right when we said it was totally unacceptable that the highest independent judicial institution in the state gave itself the right to disobey the Constitution and to disobey the laws. Then it is asked, with the right question – what kind of message is sent to an ordinary citizen, if such a thing is allowed in the Supreme Council of the judiciary. It's something we support and we think it's good. However, I cannot, of course, share that satisfaction with that information that came from you, which is that the change in the Constitution is inevitable for all reasons, which are known to the public when it comes to the Democratic Party of Serbia. We believe that at this point, this would be a completely counterproductive and harmful solution for Serbia. But after this introduction, I'm going to go straight to the draft laws we're discussing today. I'd like to say something about the Code of Criminal Procedure. To me, I must admit, the surprise that we are discussing today these partial amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, firstly, because it is already clear that this Bill of Law, the Malteses, is already standing ready and I really don't understand why you decided to discuss today, that this extremely bad Code of Criminal Procedure is being changed in part, instead of being completely radically changed. Of course, for this reason, there are many arguments. One of the basic arguments is that this Bill of Criminal Procedure has been available to the public for a long time, it is on the Justice Ministry website, you have publicly praised it several times, as far as I know, I think it has also received a positive opinion from the European Commission and all of these are reasons for its urgent investment in the assembly procedure. There is simply no reason to wait, for today in force, that is, the law is passed, the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is extremely bad. So there's no need to wait with, of course, those changes that should follow, because we already have the text of the law. So there's no reason why we're not discussing him today, and I wish you wouldn't send us a message this way that he gave up. Because if he gave up, it would be a very bad solution. I also do not consider that the provision contained in this proposal of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which refers to the abolition of mandatory training for defenders acting in complex criminal cases, is of such importance that this law should also be brought about by an urgent procedure and to be discussed, prior to the discussion of the comprehensive amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure. We, of course, disagree with this provision, think that the solution present in the current law is better, because we cannot agree that even if the defendant, for some serious crime, is, in complex criminal proceedings, representing an example lawyer, passed a judicial exam yesterday. So it doesn't matter if he's represented or represented by someone who already has certain experience. That is the basic reason why I do not support this provision, we have submitted one amendment here, and I also disagree with the reasoning that you have given under this Code of Criminal Procedure, where it is said, which minority goes in the direction of equalising the quality of defence of the person, means the defendant represented by the lawyer, with or without experience. So, we'll agree that young colleagues, young lawyers, have the opportunity to gain knowledge and so on, so to speak, make trades in some less complex criminal proceedings, and in that sense I support a provision that stands here in this bill, where it's said that the defendant can replace a legal intern, if it's a criminal offence for up to five years in prison. It's something that's totally acceptable, but we can't even a lawyer with and without experience, and especially in this way. I simply have to ask you one question, just look at that provision that you have provided for in this bill of criminal proceedings, in the context of the prosecution's investigation, or in the context of the now valid, extremely bad Code of Criminal Procedure, which, in addition to a series of bad traits and characteristics, also characterizes that the court has absolute passivity and is characterized by one inequality of the parties in the proceedings, which is manifested through the inferior role of the defender, in relation to the prosecutor, who, of course, has the entire state apparatus on his part. So, I think the solution we have in the current Code of Criminal Procedure is where and where better. Furthermore, the amendments to the Law on the Organisation of National Authorities' Jurisdiction in the Prevention of Organized Crime, there is only one amendment to the new criminal code and the Law on the Securitisation of Information, we really have nothing to add here, we have only one amendment, which we have adopted on this bill and of course I would not stick to it, but I have to say something about the law on the confiscation of property resulting from the criminal act. This bill is indeed a step forward in relation to the solution now in force. In fact, we believe that this law in every country represents the strongest weapon against organised crime, but I repeat, in order for it to achieve its full effect, constitutional rights of the accused to be absolutely respected. This is what I'm saying from what I'm saying, under the current law, is that the procedure for the permanent confiscation of property begins from the moment the indictment takes effect on the legal force. So it implies that it's a very early stage of criminal proceedings, when we're still not sure, nor can we assume whether the person will be wrong, advertised guilty, or not. Therefore, that provision of the Law contains all of our reserves under the law, where we believe that, regardless of the decision of the Constitutional Court, which has declared this law constitutional, our reserves were present in that case, because we felt that there was a presumption of innocence. It is true that this applicable law, that it has been taken away, which is temporarily, which is a permanent property worth hundreds of million euros, and it is true that the Constitutional Court, by considering several initiatives for the assessment of the constitutionality of this law, has found in the end that this law is constitutional, but I remind you, that this decision cannot in any way prevent the person whose property has been taken, and has not been found guilty, that it is legally addressed to the European Court of Human Rights and that it requires damage, or damage from its own state. I wish we didn't face cases like this, but I think it's going to be a situation that's going to be very certain. It's an honor that this bill of law will end this practice. I must also remind ourselves that our experience in the European Court of Human Rights is not good, that we do not have, so to speak, neither happiness nor success before the European Court of Human Rights, and that the number of representatives of our citizens, before that court is constantly growing. If I am not mistaken in 2012, the court ruled on Serbia's damage in 64 cases, out of 75 cases, and allocated two million euros in compensation for the benefit of Serbian citizens, against its own state. This bill certainly removes that error, which was made in the previous, or still in force, law, by predicting that the procedure for the permanent confiscation of property starts after the lawfulness of a criminal offence which is possible to confiscate property, and thus removes the possibility of conducting two parallel proceedings, means criminal proceedings and proceedings for the confiscation of property, which consistently goes towards respecting the presumption of innocence. We have submitted to this bill, I think, five or six amendments, and we hope that you will carefully consider them. Of course, according to us, the most important law that we are discussing today is the Law on special measures to prevent crimes against half-freedom against minors, or the law that will be called "Maria's" law in public, by the girl, which unfortunately is the victim of a monstrous crime. There was a lot of talk about the law in our public before he actually entered the Assembly procedure and expected much from the public. We, of course, support the passing of that law. We believe that it is necessary for society as we are today, and I believe that it is a positive step, if anything in the direction of a formal legal defense to prevent these crimes from being committed in the future. Also, I have to say that every law and reach of every law is restricted, so unfortunately the scope of this law is limited and here, as one great law expert says - the greatest prevention is the strictest punishment. That's why I think we all need to advocate, as much as it is of course in our jurisdiction as MPs, one more severe criminal policy because today, unfortunately, there are cases of getting only a few years in prison for the crimes of rape. One of the perhaps best features of this law is the ban on easing penalties, the ban on parole, and that is something we consider to be an extremely good solution. I am pleased and here I must say, what the Minister accepted during the debate on the Criminal Code my, more specifically, amendment to the DSS, on the ban on the mitigation of criminal acts of rape and on the pedophiles and I am immeasurably glad that this provision of the law has been implemented, i.e. included in this bill. I listened carefully to Mrs Popovic's discussion, which believes it is necessary that this law also contains a provision on the banning of law enforcement for these crimes, I must also say publicly to call Mrs Popovic, if this is the only reserve she has under this law, that we have submitted just such an amendment to which we have asked that criminal prosecution for these crimes is not outdated. If she thinks it's the only fault of this law, she can simply support it by supporting our amendment that we have submitted to this bill. We have submitted seven amendments besides him, eight amendments to this bill. One of these amendments also refers to the legal consequences of the conviction. In fact, we think that those as regulated in this bill should not last 20 years, but should last permanently. I will remind you that it is the category of persons who, in 70% of cases, are returnees, who simply cannot refrain from committing and continuing to commit these crimes and that our amendment goes in the direction that the consequences relating to the establishment of a working relationship and, thank you, Mrs Plasic, and to the ban on obtaining public functions are permanent. We have a thousand cases today, let's say, people who, not in our country, because usually our country doesn't condemn such a large and high sentence, that even after 20 years in prison, they go out and say, the second day after that they commit the same crime. So, not only should the lasting consequences last 20 years, but the lasting consequences should last permanently, in our opinion, and especially since they relate only to this foundation of working relationship in institutions dealing with underage children. So there are so many other jobs where they could get a job, not allow them the right to increase that risk that way. Furthermore, we are also of the opinion that the ban on visiting places where minors are gathered should be provided for in this bill, which exercises control over such a one-off measure. I think that in the bill, it is definitely not regulated, we have provided for the supervision of the implementation of this measure to be carried out by the state, in that it determines special OUP officers and school police officers who will be competent to exercise control for twenty-four hours in places where minors are gathered. This may seem inconclusive in practice, but since it is a very important crime, i.e. delicate social phenomena, it is necessary for the state to take control of these crimes on itself. Also, there are two options here. The first one is this, which means that the state determines the specific OUP belongings, and the second option is the electronic surveillance bracelet, which I personally consider to be a much more efficient and better means, but I think and I'm afraid it requires certain financial resources that the state is unable to implement at the moment. I'll remind you that in America there are, they're called parole officers who keep very detailed records of where these convicted persons are, meaning where they move, where they live, whether they're based on working relationships, who they're seeing, and in any case, at all times they have a very detailed analysis and records of all movements. I have information, I don't know how right I am, that we're going to introduce trustees to conduct or care for the application of parole for protective surveillance. If my information is correct, then we could be thinking in the direction that their size of work is expanding precisely control over these convicted persons. So it's about paedophiles and rapists. Also, worrying about a reported rape, up to five and ten unreported rapes occur, and that rape victims for conviction or fear of conviction by the public or fear of a public stamping, do not want to report this crime. The worrying data is also that 70% of rapists are returnees and that they do those crimes again, regardless of the severity of the sentence, regardless of the length of time they spent in prison. When we know all this, I also have to say this, I speak for myself, I don't speak as the attitude of the parliamentary group that I belong to, that chemical castration is something that I would immediately accept, regardless of the dissuasive legal understanding of its effectiveness. I also listened very closely, colleague Batic, who had an exposure to this topic and I absolutely support everything she said. Indeed, there are a large number of countries, not only in the EU, but across Europe that have taken one such measure, to the soul as voluntary castration, from Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Great Britain, Israel, etc. Even, we have a situation and certain countries in Europe such as Poland, which has a mandatory castration for persons who have committed rape against their family members and who have committed child rape under the age of 15. Also, I have information that countries like Italy and France are seriously considering introducing chemical castration, precisely because of the increase in the number of paedophiles and rapists. Of course, I'm going to repeat that the best prevention is the strictest punishment of the perpetrators of these crimes, and in that direction I'm talking about chemical castration, but I'm not talking about it as a punishment, I'm talking about it as a therapeutic measure. In the end, since I'm running out of time, I'm just asking you to finish one sentence, these are all, in fact, very important laws. We'll uphold the law, so-called. "Maria's Law," but we think it's high time we had to deal with all those problems that came out of the so-called. "Court reform" and that it is necessary for MPs to come first in a series of these laws to form the basis for a new approach. That's why I'm asking you to give us information as far as the Justice Network Act is concerned? (Chairman: Please, time.) Thank you, here I am, one sentence, until... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14104	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14105	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers, respected representatives of the government, fellow MPs, in this debate on the set of judicial laws, without the intention of estimating the importance, because they are all important, and all the proposed laws, it is doubtless that the greatest attention, at least the public's attention, is being paid to the Law on special measures to prevent the conduct of criminal acts against half-freedom against minors. I must immediately point out that the proposed Law on Special Measures to prevent the conduct of crimes against gender freedom against minors is no doubt providing a significantly higher degree of criminal protection to this particular age population. The justification for the adoption of this law also confirms the facts that our society, unfortunately, faces on a daily basis in the most cruel and monstrous way. Today they are minors, and more and more especially very young people, victims of brutal, insidious, and bestial attacks on their personality, and in these attacks most often endanger the gender freedoms of young people. A growing number of crimes against the harm of minors, where the perpetrators of such crimes cruelly and in particular defeating the lives of young people. The consequences of such crimes are particularly difficult and far-reaching, in my opinion, even inescapable. This is especially because minors become victims of promise, rape, fornication, abuse in pornography, computer technology of data transfer, etc. These consequences involve inevitable and mental and psychological deviations in these young people who remain for life. They unorthodoxly and intensify to the extent that the victim is no longer capable of joining society, socializing, schooling, professionally building up, creating his life in the best way possible. So this sacrifice becomes inevitably lost to society because of the mistrust in society, because it just appears as a victim of such a monstrous act. Mary’s law is because Mary’s law has happened because something that is the most monstrous that could have happened, and then the whole society becomes responsible, because it is inevitable that non-trust is born to a state apparatus unless the state apparatus responds. It's certain that these are at least some of the reasons for the law being passed, but what's the point? The purpose of this law and the message is precisely this last thing I said – to prevent the perpetrators of these crimes from doing these crimes again and ever again. How? Simply, in a way that is absolutely legitimate and which implies penalties adequate and appropriate to the criminal act, the way in which the crime is committed, the degree of social danger. Only by severe punishment, which we must bear in mind that criminal policy is not created by us, does not create the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but creates judicial practice and courts. It is precisely the courts who are being judged to warn, in the most impeccable manner, the harsh sentences with the unquestionable elements of the repression of these crimes. On the other hand, I have to point out that the proposed law achieves something else, another goal and another purpose in the criminal and legal sense of the word, and that is extended prevention and that is both special and general, as well as resociation. Why prevention and resociation? This is precisely why this law is trying to prevent criminal acts, which also reduces the number of perpetrators and the number of crimes. Then, in terms of special prevention, we have achieved a great deal. In terms of resociation, it will be achieved the moment the consequences of the conviction are finally brought to life. They are indeed specific and determined by this law. The consequences of the convictions mentioned here begin with the loss of public office, the loss of employment at the workplace where the perpetrator is involved in the work with minors, the ban on obtaining public office, as well as the ban on establishing a working relationship again on jobs that relate to working with minors, are undoubtedly a good basis for these consequences to produce and the real result. However, in relation to the specific measures that the proposer has defined in the law, and there is no need to list them in particular, especially in relation to what the proposer has and recognised as a very sensitive area and a very dangerous area of action through the ban on visiting a number of young people, the SPS parliamentary group has submitted amendments to this part of the proposed law to the provisions of Articles 6, 7 and 9. Why? Because we believe that in this part of the proposed law has not been the most appropriate way to regulate the way in which special measures are implemented. We have analysed the provision of Article 6a(3) and if this provision were to survive, then all convicted persons would come after the legal power of the court decision in an unequal position. We have to bear in mind that those perpetrators of crimes that are different by qualification, different by the degree of social danger, are different by the method of committing a crime. It is impossible for all of them, given these differences, to be covered by this law by the duration of both the consequences of the conviction and the specific measures in so-called. a fixed period of 20 years. We are fully in agreement with the amendments that, as I looked at them today, the DS also suggested. In that part, we believe that this law should be amended, amended, and that this period should be decided up to 20 years, but up to 20 years at most. This also meets the fundamental constitutional principle that all are equal before the law. In addition, the SPS Group considers that, other than those specific measures defined in the proposed law, the same law can be qualitatively improved. We are aware that no law can cover all situations, that there are so many situations in life that I do not know how many laws and how many quality laws, all situations will not be covered by legislation. So our contribution is that at least one part, one Corps, one segment fills with a new special measure that may not be quite happy and precisely formulated, but could be called a ban on doing jobs and activities that involve working with minors under special circumstances. I would ask the MPs to turn their attention to this special attention, along with us. Why? Because we are daily witnesses that people who work on youth education, especially minors, people who prepare these minors for underage exams, to pass exams at colleges, to pass admission exams, as potential perpetrators of criminal acts under such special circumstances can indeed cause a special threat to minors. That is why the amendment submitted by the SPS parliamentary group has also tried to satisfy what means increased protection and under such special circumstances. Why would a sensitive area like this be left out? Not to mention the extent to which sports coaches and coaches can appear in other areas, animators in cultural and entertainment content and persons engaged in similar activities. If we don't cover these specific areas, then we've left one area completely criminally and legally unprotected. Can we do that? I think that, in that direction, the Proposer should also consider these facts as fully justified for accepting the amendments that we have proposed. Dear Ministers, I hope you will recognize the quality of the amendment that I was now talking about and in the principle debate. The SPS parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day, and we hope that the Ministry of Justice will continue to work after the adoption of this law to adopt even more high quality, better legal and sublegal acts in order to raise to an even greater degree of protection, criminal and legal protection what is required in relation to minors who are undoubtedly most at risk when it comes to this law. As regards the law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence, it should be pointed out that only one type of continuance of legislative legislation is being implemented by this law. Why the continuity of legislative legislation? Because we had already adopted the Law on the confiscation of assets stemmed from the 2008 crime and this law which better regulated certain solutions, more precisely and clearly, where the process of confiscation is defined in a far more high-quality way, in any case merits the attention that such a law is supported. However, in order to make it clear to the citizens why the SPS parliamentary group insists that it is a quality legal solution, then it is necessary to go from the following facts without the intention of repeating what is otherwise stated in this law. First of all, it's a good thing that you've introduced new crimes here, that those crimes that have been brought into the Criminal Code in the recent past have been systematized. It is good that now, in a far more efficient way, through an efficient procedure, the question of the confiscation of property that has arisen from the crime, but what property is it? Let's define it in two ways. In general, it is both movable and immovable property, both good and useful. Good can be material or immaterial or immaterial nature, but it is essential to say that the property is what came out of the crime in an illegal way and in a narrow sense it is the property whose value is in an unobservable disproportionately diametric contradiction with the legal income of the owner of the property. It's inevitable here that it's something that can't be acquired in a legitimate way. What is the legal procedure of the procedure itself? It consists of a very clear definition here of who has the party's identity in this process. There is no doubt that the party's identity in this procedure has a public prosecutor and property owner. Everyone else in the process is the organs. We have an organization at the MUP dealing with a financial investigation, the Directorate for the Management of Disposal of Assets and Court. Who's running the procedure? The only one who can initiate the procedure is a public prosecutor. In addition, he is in the financial investigation phase and manages the procedure. It's something that gives this law a special quality, because the procedure is unequivocally clear and precise. The essential thing about the quality of this law is what is presented in the opening statement by the proposings, which is that, in the case of the confiscation of property, whether it is a temporary or permanent confiscation of property, it takes care of something that involves the elemental principles in the process, primarily the protection of the privacy of the data while at the same time the efficiency and urgency of the process. These principles, if consistently respected in the procedure, clearly indicate that the take-up process itself will be extremely effective. In the end, it is true that the most qualitative thing that implies that the proceedings of permanent confiscation of property can be initiated only after the lawfulness of the verdict, which shows that the defendant has been found to be guilty and convicted of a criminal offence arising from the assets being seized. This avoids parallelism or complementarity by avoiding injury to the prejudgment of innocence on the one hand, and on the other hand, we will not conduct two parallel procedures. One criminal act to determine who's guilty and another procedure to confiscate property. The purpose of adopting this law as well as the previously applicable law and messages that we send is to avoid the enormous wealth of the perpetrators of the crimes of natural and legal persons associated with them on the property that came out of these crimes. On the other hand, the purpose of this law is to protect property and protect itself in accordance with the procedure I tried to present in the shortest sense of the word. In the end, there are also procedural laws that are today the subject of our debate. That's where I have to point out, not putting myself as a lawyer, because it doesn't occur to me even though I'm in this business, but in any case, as a man who shares the opinion of all the lawyers. You did one great thing for a lawyer because you finally deleted one discriminatory provision from the law and that provision implies a negative selection of lawyers. This negative selection of lawyers has been produced in so far and now in the current CAP because a lawyer qualified as a defence attorney could only defend in criminal proceedings if he has an appropriate working experience or employment experience in law enforcement. Those who had a very small internship of a few months or a year were completely discriminated against, even if they were judges who spent more than 20 or 30 years in the judiciary, moved to law school and continued their work. Who can convince the citizens and us here that they don't know their jobs? Nobody. At the end of the day, what means the education of young legal practitioners has been brought to life in the best possible way and in the most qualitative way in this law, which is that lawyers can also replace lawyers with the principles in criminal proceedings where criminal offences are found to be threatened by sentences of up to five years in prison. It's a great opportunity for young people to educate themselves, to gain experience, and then to continue to do their job as many of us do our original lawyers. On that behalf and on behalf of all of us lawyers, I thank you. What I'm saying is that we don't have a single dilemma that in the voting day we don't support it, we're going to support all these laws. On the other hand, I call on all fellow Members of Parliament whether they are from a position or opposition, that if they recognize the quality of the law in this presentation, they join us in supporting them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14106	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14107	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we have four law-abiding laws in the area of criminal law before us. Our views, MP groups of DS, on them are also different. The first law came about as a reaction, or resulting from the cruelty of the perpetrators and the tragedy of the victim and her family. In this way, this is a reaction of society, or state, to one tragedy that can happen to another family. Because of this fact, this law enjoys the support of DS MPs. First of all, I believe that this law enjoys the moral support of all MPs, because its purpose should be prevention. He refers to potential perpetrators of these crimes. So he's primarily focused on potential perpetrators of such cruel crimes, and he should, we should, we could call it Colloquial, to distance potential perpetrators from potential victims. Of course, when we discuss this law and every other criminal law, we should put ourselves in the role of the victim, or her family. My opinion and the opinion of the DS parliamentary group is that this law should have entered the procedure earlier. This law was prepared by the previous government. We think he should've gone into procedure before the Amnesty Act. However, for this law and for potential new victims, to prevent new serious crimes, the small Maya family has great merit. My father's at the gallery with us today. Of course this is an example of human humanity. This family can't protect its child, but it can preserve, along with us, some other children. In this regard, I believe that there will be no political difference in this House. What I could say as a lawyer about this law is the fact that some of my colleagues have mentioned before, which is the fact that our criminal law is codified, that it is in one Criminal Code and that this law will be a special law beyond that codified code. But given the nature of the crime and the prevention of these crimes, it is certain that it has an excuse. When it comes to the law on the confiscation of property, the fact is that this is about a new law, an old topic, and we already have a law on the confiscation of property derived from criminal acts. So, in order to avoid any confusion among MPs and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in 2008, the previous government passed the Law on the confiscation of property arising from the conduct of criminal acts, and it aimed to step up the fight against organised crime and corruption. The application of this law, which has been passed by the previous Government, has shown that the confiscation of property to persons convicted or subject to criminal proceedings can in an adequate way contribute to the fight against this modern evil, which affects and destroys the essence and fundamental principles of the functioning of every organised state. The fight against organised crime is certainly a prerequisite for the fight against corruption, because corruption has been very often carried out, such as drug trafficking, weapons, oil, cigarettes, etc., which is the best shown by the action of the "Balkan Warrior" and the breaking up of an organised criminal group, which was involved in all of these previously mentioned crimes, which ultimately led to the organisation of the criminal group and which was a previous threat to the entire society. Otherwise, the total seized property under the law passed by the previous government is 350m euros. Unfortunately, in the light of this new law, this figure is not listed, such as the fact that 255 natural persons, 25 legal persons, were seized, 35 houses, 100 apartments, 18 restaurants, 22 garages, etc., apartments in Zlatibor, works of art, 18 companies, four hotels, restaurants, money. There is no indication that only on the basis of the lease of these facilities, which have been seized temporarily, a monthly inflow of 20,000 euros, which goes for different purposes, such as the Children's Hospital in Tirshovo, such as institutions that are now kindergartens, as well as institutions used to house endangered children or their mothers. Certain funds went to donations to the municipality Trade for flood relief, for the purchase of food for folk cuisine, for the purchase of equipment for certain centres, for the assistance of various distrophysics associations, etc. In that sense, we believe that this law adopted by the previous government was a quality law. This is recognised in one place by the current ministry, or government. We're not saying this law shouldn't have changed. We absolutely believe that it was necessary for this law to change, because through its application it was observed that certain segments do not carry out certain procedures in a quality way, especially when it comes to the availability of confiscated property. In that part, we have no dispute. Also, a precise regulation of the provisions on the confiscation of assets located abroad was needed and there is no dispute, above all, in order to avoid different interpretations. However, we still believe that this law could have been amended and complemented in order to fix it and that it was not necessary to pass a new law. I know that the reason for this is that over 50% of all norms have been changed and that in this sense the conditions for the adoption of a new law have been met, but I'm not quite sure how much this is due to the technical corrections that would lead to the adoption of a new law and how much this is due to the desire to make a point. We don't think it's the place, because we expect long-declared other laws in the area of justice that, unfortunately, don't arrive in this assembly. It certainly deserves the explanation of the existing government, which in one place pointed out that the previous law of the Republic of Serbia, such as a series of other modern and democratic states that are characterized by the rule of law, has obtained legislation that has allowed for more efficient and comprehensive confiscation of property benefit acquired by crime. For the first time in our criminal law, this law introduces the possibility for a person to be legally convicted of otherwise serious crimes, which, among other things, are characterized by large profits, which do not prove that certain assets they possess are legally acquired, such property can be permanently seized. So far, the application of this law has yielded very good results, above all in the repression of organised crime and high corruption, which has been the main goal that this law seeks to achieve. In one piece is the provision of a new government on quality legislation adopted by the previous government in the fight against organised crime. However, the effects of this decrease. For example, it is said - a temporary or permanent confiscation of property worth more than millions of euros has been seized. It is no longer millions of euros but 350m euros. So, it's not millions of euros anymore, it's a huge amount of money, it's a huge property, and it's about a government that was first involved with this part, or these crimes. We are pleased, I repeat, that this government is making continuity in this sense, and I do not think it should diminish the achievements of the previous government that started from scratch. When it comes to certain provisions, first of all, of the law concerning the confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts, Article 2 is considered to be a failure of the legislator. Why did he not predict that this law could also apply to the crime of terrorism referred to in Article 391. The criminal code has already predicted that the confiscation of assets can only be carried out by means of proceedings or convictions for the criminal act of financing terrorism? I think this is a flaw. As a lack, it could be taken to the fact that the Minister of the Interior manages a unit dealing with security matters, i.e. the availability of confiscated property, and previously stood the view that this was done in the light of the attached opinion of the Republic Public Prosecutor, who is the other interested party in this process, and I do not know why it is exceptional. In point 4. The bill provides that in the management operations of the seized property, the Directorate may negotiate services in accordance with the act of the Minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary. There is no provision in the current law, which has caused many difficulties in the work of the Directorate. This provision will significantly facilitate the work of the Directorate. In that sense, I find this provision correct. He's a slow member of 56th where the Directorate can, without the court's permission, alienate the property. This can cause certain legal, or constitutional legal issues. When it comes to the Code of Criminal Procedure, it is more about technical provisions that no doubt correct the law, but it is not about the fundamental changes that have long been announced. We count that even this way the new minister confirms that the previous laws were of quality. With all this in mind, the DS parliamentary group will be pleased to support the law on special measures to prevent crimes against gender freedom against minors – Maria's law. So, with pleasure. We believe that this is a contribution to the fight against these crimes which are extremely socially dangerous. The other laws are cosmetic, they don't give too much newspaper, and I think they're just a confirmation that DS was doing quality work in this area, and they're certainly not some newspaper that should represent a new quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14108	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14109	Thank you. Was my colleague registered before me or not? No, I don't. ) Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the URS will support all laws that are on the agenda today, primarily in the face of the fight against corruption and crime, and with a deep belief that these laws contribute to an effective fight against corruption and crime. When I say that, I also mean laws that pass, mah, harmonize with some changes that occurred in the meantime, but also with a new law on confiscation of property acquired by crime. Until the adoption of such a law in 2008 and its application in 2009, which we also voted for and supported, Serbia was a very convenient place to deal with crime. It was a pretty lucrative job, because it often happened that even after serving a prison sentence, criminals were waiting for rich assets, families with yachts, houses, and money, and it was really a bad model and a very bad state message. Things have changed since then. The fact is that the law had effects, but of course we support the insistence that everything that has happened in the application of the law, and it has been seen as a lack, remove this new law, and extend the scope of the works to which this law will apply. Ladies and gentlemen, what I particularly want to talk about today is a law that has a very dry legal name called the Law on Special Measures to Prevent the conduct of criminal acts against the half-life of minors. Emotionally and human, we all call that law "Maria's Law." I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is devastating for a single state and that it is very sad for a single parliament when it must pass a law by the name of a child. It would be good if we passed laws that we call the names of children who brought joy in their lives, improved their lives, or the lives of their peers. Unfortunately, this is not happening, and not only in Serbia. When laws are called the name of a child, it means it's a victim's child and it's laid down its life to pass a law like this. Would it be better if this law, like in America, was called "Veterling Law", after little Jacob, or if it were called "Megan's Law," after little Megan who also suffered from a crime like this? Would it be easier for us? It wouldn't be safe. Nowhere in the world should any child get hurt in order to improve the legal system of his country or the world. The fact remains that we were able to pass this law earlier, given that it has been becoming in America since 1994 and 1996, and that it exists in many other countries. We should have brought it sooner, but not last year. I wish we'd brought it back before 2010. We have a question as to whether little Maria would be alive today? We'll never know that, but we have a duty to react more quickly in these cases in the future, and we don't wait for evil to happen to warn him. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a law that causes a lot of emotions and none of us can talk about it without emotion. It also causes violent emotions in the public and in blogs you can find various suggestions on criminal measures against criminals, when it comes to sex crimes against children, from the suggestion of bullets to the forehead, death penalty, life imprisonment, to castration. There's a lot of storms, there's a lot of emotion. Criminologists and culprits warn us, however, that we need to be reasonable, that we need to see the effects of such legal solutions and that our goal, not revenge, not disgust, not fear, but that our goal is primarily to prevent such acts from being done in the future. So I'm going to talk about some of the controversies that are being set up when we think like this. First of all, what is a criminal policy and what is a criminal policy that will lead to the reduction of such crimes. That in Serbia she is the treasure, I think most of us agree. When the changes to the Criminal Code were on the agenda, I suggested a stricter sentence when there was a fatal outcome due to rape against the child. Unfortunately, you did not adopt that amendment at the time, and I urge you, Mr. Minister, to reconsider once again that in such cases the most severe punishment is proposed. Obsolescence, that's certainly a painful question. It can't be an out-of-date crime like that. As a crime against humanity, it can't go out of date, because children are the most sensitive beings. What happens in their childhood is permanently marking their lives, permanently marking our society, that we understand each other, because sexual crimes against children are not as small as they sometimes seem, because we all know that only the tip of the iceberg is reported. So, we have to change obsolescence. All women in parliament have agreed to work together on this, and I believe that we will all support the amendments that make this one solution, especially if we have in mind that the victim, an eight-year-old victim, ten years old, twelve years old, cannot report a crime within six years. He can't report it. You know that most European countries have different solutions and these solutions must also be incorporated into our legal system. Is it possible to rehabilitate criminals who commit crimes like this? The data says it's very often about the returnees, and I agree with that. Is it completely impossible to rehabilitate? I don't believe it. Everyone has to get their chance. This law does not treat the perpetrators who are in the family. Most sexual crimes against children are committed by fathers, senses, adoptors, persons whose children are entrusted to aging, persons who work in homes for carefree children. So, famous perpetrators. We have to think about them when we talk about this law. Castration, another very controversial question today. Is castration a treatment? It's not treatment. Does it lead to a reduction in crime? We don't have the exact information. The data is also controversial. Some say – yes, completely, and some say – there is a relapse of up to 83%, even when chemical castration is done. That's one question you need to talk about seriously. I have to ask another painful question for our society. Are we a society that, on the one hand, reacts emotionally and suggests a bullet to the forehead, and on the other hand, are we a society that tends to tolerate this kind of crime? Do we have double arches compared to who committed this crime? Do we call one perpetrator a monster, beast, animal, and call another father, just because he belongs to an organization that enjoys high trust in Serbia? That's inadmissible. There's another case in public these days. How is it possible that a famous singer, an estrace artist, I won't call him a gentleman, admitted to having an affair, and then said it was a plankton connection with a 14-year-old girl? How is it possible that this environment has tolerated? Now we see that many of those girls around here knew about it. How is it possible that this news came up as a selected part of a reality show program, which I also don't want to mention, although I think it deserves to be mentioned in a negative context? Are we still going to be fans of such esthetic performers, listen to their music, and be horrified by x-rays, ipislon beasts chasing our children? I think we should think about it all. I think you need to raise awareness in society that every perpetrator of this kind must be punished in the same way, whether it's a family case, when it comes to fathers, whether it's a church case, when it comes to priests, whether it's a case of very well-known estrad artists or completely unknown perpetrators. What are the effects of the measures adopted by this law in the experiences of other states that have such measures? Also, controversial. Some data say that as many as 63% of new cases appear in communities that are informed that someone who has already committed such a crime is living in their neighborhood. Some even say that measures, records, and public recognition of the perpetrators of the crime can speed up his relapse, due to fears, isolation, shame, rejections he experiences in the community. Some say, not some, researchers involved say the publication of the identity of the perpetrator living in the environment leads to a smaller number of reported cases. Here, above all, he thinks about those cases that happen in the family, because the consequences are greater. This is also something to think about when we pass this law. But that in no way diminishes the importance of this law. These are just questions for possible reflection on the adoption of amendments proposed by the MPs, and according to what I have seen, there are many good amendments. The United Regions of Serbia and I fully support this law, above all, because it clearly says there is no mitigation of penalties for these perpetrators and there is no parole for them. Stopping public office and stopping working with children is something that needs to be taken into account in cases like this. The inability to perform a public function or to establish a working relationship lasts 20 years under the provisions of the law. I have proposed an amendment that provides for a 40-year ban, because I believe that someone who was 25 or 30 years old when convicted may be able to get into a situation that after 20 years of working with children again. I don't think there's any need, but I agree with my colleague Radovic, who suggested that it be permanent. In agreement with our legal system, I suggested that it be the strictest punishment we have, which is 40 years. I think she'll cover exactly what I wanted to achieve. Of course, I support all special measures, the obligation of the perpetrator to report to the police department every month until 15th of the month, or the Department of Prison Sanctions, the ban on visiting a place where children are gathered, the obligation to consult. I also have one dilemma here -- do we have enough counselling sites that are trained, accredited to deal with this kind of therapy, do we have them in small places, how will it be regulated? I guess that'll be settled later, but that's also something that causes the dilemma in the application of the law. A few of the troubles I've had are, first of all, minor perpetrators. I suppose you may have seen my amendment. My dilemma is -- does the minors of these crimes also fall under these measures, and does that mean that if someone at 15 is convicted, for example, of some educational measure because, let's say, he has led his peer to attend the full act, which is one of the acts that is sanctioned, will he also be subject to the measure that 20 years, or 40, as I suggest, can't work with children? So that's something I'd like to talk to you about when we talk about amendments. So, in the spirit of the law on minor perpetrators of criminal acts, in the spirit of the possible rehabilitation of the youngest perpetrators of criminal acts, I suggest that they be excluded from the fact of this law. Of course, when it comes to senior minors who are convicted of the most severe punishments and all adults, I suggest tightening the fines, as I have already said. The specific measures the court will examine every four years or two, at the request of a person subject to these measures, are also something that may be partially improved, first of all, given the different severity of the crimes. Some countries have done so, and I think it might be better if we brought a legal solution to this, therefore, in relation to the severity of the crime, because, I remind you, crimes are moving from illicit sexual acts to rape, etc. Therefore, this should be resolved in relation to the severity of the crime, not leaving the court with the possibility of reviewing and eventually releasing these obligations of a perpetrator every four years. I don't think it should be the court's discretionary decision, but it should be settled by law, again I say, in relation to the severity of the crime. The obligation to notify the environment in which the perpetrator is located does not exist in this law. It is the laws that I have set out in some other countries and it moves from, with the record being kept, the obligation for the police administration to inform the neighborhood or the city in which the perpetrator or returnee is located in the execution of such a crime, to inform parents, so that they know that such a criminal is in their area. There's no obligation with us. We will also have records at the request of employers or prosecutors or police, they will have insight into this record, but there is no notification obligation. I think that could also have been solved and that there could have been some kind of obligation. I am fully aware that this law is in line with the Personal Data Protection Act and, as I have already said, I do not think it is necessary to disclose the identity of the perpetrator. However, the European Court of Human Rights, in its practice, makes decisions in which, by estimating the interest and environment, i.e. the protection of children and the protection of data, it recommends a measure that it would be possible to inform the perpetrator in a particular area, but not to state his identity, so that, in that case, parents, teachers and children themselves, could be more careful. Here, these are some questions and ideas that I had to do with this law. Once again, I would like to point out that he is a great step in preventing such crimes and I am fully convinced that this will be a law that will be passed by the votes of 250 MPs, because this is not only the law we owe to Mary, this is a law that we owe to our children and this is a law that bears the names of all children in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14110	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14111	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament and Members of the People's Parliament. We have before us a bill of law and amendments and additions of laws arising from the amendments to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, but also amendments and additions to the laws that arise from so-called. The Lanzaro Convention, the SE Convention on the Protection of Children, which are countries that adopted this Convention, under the obligation to regulate by law. I think the Law on Special Measures to Prevent Criminal Crimes Against Full Freedom towards Juvenile Persons was absolutely necessary, from the point of view of which, unfortunately, today in the modern world, the number of crimes against semi-freedom is growing, and whose victims are children, or minors. I would like, at this point, to single out, first of all, Article 185b of this law, which my colleagues, in their discussions, did not pay attention or did not consider it particularly necessary to apostrophe it, and I think it is very important that, as much as they bring benefits, they provide great abuses, and it is very important to make this legal provision more precise and incriminating people who threaten the full freedom of minors, using the internet network. I therefore believe that a set of preventive measures should be considered in particular, namely for those who, after leaving prison, show that they have, using the Internet networks, receive a special urge or desire to do those crimes again. A large number of citizens, model members of the social community, treats people completely normal, but when using the Internet network, it also changes behavior after getting out of prison, I think that such individuals should be looked at with caution by some special measures and that we should also consider a set of these special measures. As for the proposal for these special measures to prevent the conduct of criminal acts against semi-freedom towards minors, I can say that the New Serbia parliamentary group fully agrees with its proposals, because we believe that the excellent and good legal solutions to Maria's law, which relate to the possibility of neither easing punishment nor parole for the perpetrators of these acts. We also consider it a good legal solution and a legal proposal that even after 20 years this person cannot compete for both teachers and teachers. I also find it a good suggestion to report regularly to the police. What I'd like to add is that counselling centres that have special supervision over these people, I think they should specifically keep records and keep a three-month record of them informing the authorities about it. Also, New Serbia intervened with a technical amendment to Article 13, which defines a special record of the perpetrators of those crimes. We believe that there should be this unique centralised base, including the DNA profile, but by technical amendment we emphasized and further specified this fact, as it should look. What I'm trying to say is that for me, as well as for my colleagues, this law is not complete unless the obsolescence of a sexual delinquent is abolished. It is a proposal proposed by the Incest Trauma Center to the official National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the Women's Parliamentary Network and the Child Rights Committee have accepted. This has nothing to do with you, Minister, but I think we need to agree on whether or not to propose an amendment to fellow Radovic or to discuss this later. I think this proposal is very important because time is a significant factor for all minors who are victims of sexual violence. These are persons who are emotionally and economically dependent on rapists, and only after 18 years can they face the traumas they've been through again, to get the strength to sue the rapist. As for the proposal for a law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence, I would like to point out that it is a good thing that this law was passed in 2008. I do not want to underestimate the significant effects of this law, which has been applied in the past four years, because tens of millions of euros have been seized from its application, and I do not think that this law should be ignored, but it was also necessary to amend it, given the changes in the Criminal Code between 2009 and 2012. I agree with everything that is stated in this bill, first of all with Article 2, which complements criminal acts and foresees that it includes both kidnapping, fraud, extortion, false bankruptcy, trustees' damages, but also criminal acts of abuse of the position of the responsible person and abuse of public procurement, as well as the conclusion of the outcome of the competition. I think it's also very important for a member of the 3rd law, which determines the property of the owner who is disproportionate to his legal incomes. Also, I think it is very important that the new legislative proposal recognises the organisation unit of the MUP and the Directorate for the Management of Disposal of Assets. It is now the MUP and the Disposal of Property Directorate that confers broad powers and enables it to request the most different information from the state authorities. Article 16 takes care of the dignity and honor of the owner. I think he sanctions the arrogant treatment of these faces that we had the opportunity to see on small screens. The provisions of Articles 17 to 22 have arranged a financial investigation. Large powers are given at this stage to the MUP unit, which collects all possible evidence, as well as, of course, to the public prosecutor. Article 24 eliminates the possibility of temporary confiscation of assets on the basis of a public prosecutor's order. Article 25 of the proposal provides that a decision is to be taken within seven days of the date of receipt of the request, without holding the hearing, which increases efficiency in the process of temporary confiscation of assets. I believe that it is a very important paper in this law and in fact, i.e. the opening of a bankruptcy proceedings against a legal person covered by the solution, and has created major problems in the Directorate himself, which is responsible for the management of the temporarily seized property. I think it's very important that this whole procedure expropriates with urgency, which there is no delay, which the second-degree court has to make a decision and cannot return it to the court's decision. Article 38 of this Law makes it very clear that the permanent confiscation of assets is carried out after the end of the proceedings and is strengthened by the assumption of innocence of the defendant himself, but does not affect the effectiveness of the process for the confiscation of assets. The aspect of humanity has also been preserved and this legal provision is prescribed to leave part of the property if it is estimated that the existence of a person, who is required to endure, is compromised. Article 50. The draft law provides that the Retracted Property Directorate, which is entrusted to it with management, design and minutes and keeps a special record. Also, it is new that the Directorate directly implements the court's ruling on temporary confiscation. Article 53 presents a significant paper in relation to the applicable law and a new solution gives authority to the Directorate that the management of the temporary legal entity can also be transferred to another natural person. New Serbia is right in this Article 53. The draft law intervened with the amendment, because we believe it is necessary to clearly specify which natural persons are being transferred to. We also believe that there is no room for any kind of discretionary decision. Article 58 of this law provides that temporarily seized assets, which are not sold, are to be donated for humanitarian purposes. Articles 60 and 61. The draft law provides for the procedure for the recovery of property, i.e. the way in which the owner of the temporary confiscation of the property is compensated. We also believe that the provisions of Articles 65 and 66 clearly specify what international co-operation in this important area involves, because we have criminal groups that have received the characteristics of multinational corporations in every respect and which pose a serious threat to the international agenda. As regards the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in combating organised crime, corruption and other special serious crimes, we believe that the competent ministry prescribes these legal solutions to be agreed on time, so that their application does not cause a problem in the practice of courts and other competent authorities. Amendments and additions to the Criminal Law have shown the need for the amendment of this law to be seen as indisputable by the competent authorities of the state. As for the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, I would like to apostrophe two significant newspapers - the first one, under which the restrictions on the rights of the defence attorney, which was laid down under the constitutional law of the defendant to choose the defendant by his own discretion and the second, is eliminated the observed legal gap in the current CAP, by adding a new member of 425, who regulates detention after the first-degree sentence, in the way that this was previously resolved in our criminal-percent legislation. Finally, I would like to tell you that the New Serbia parliamentary group will support all proposals for the law, amendments and additions to the legislation in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14112	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14113	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Serbian Progressive Party will, of course, support all five judicial laws that have entered the debate today. With great satisfaction, we will particularly support the adoption of Maria's law, a law which, we are sure, will contribute to the much greater security of citizens, much greater safety of children, much greater general security in Serbia. Mary's law, so named after the late Maria Jovanovic, whose father is present here today, is a law that has come, we see today, on one general support of all MPs in this Parliament, a law that, in truth, has entered the procedure at the time of the previous government and in an unaltered form proposed today by the Ministry of Justice and Mr Selakovic, which we consider to be a very correct move. Of course, it is a law that can be corrected and 44 amendments have entered the procedure so far, most of these amendments will certainly be adopted, each of which will, of course, be carefully studied. Personally, I would always support an amendment that provides for a ban on the obsolescence of acts of rape and other acts of anti-freedom, that is, acts of sexual predators. There are other amendments to be considered anyway. But what's most important is that we repeat once again to us and to the citizens what this law means and what good it will do Serbia and its citizens and the security of its citizens. In the first place, sexual predators, therefore, people who have committed crimes such as rape or a promise of a minor child, when they get out of prison, will be confronted with being under one monitoring that can last 20 years, by monitoring that they will have to report regularly to the police, to report regularly to counselling psychologically, to report their change of residence, or to the workplace, that they will not be able to go abroad until they report to the competent authorities, and a whole series of other measures, and perhaps the most important among them, that sexual predators, when they leave prison, will not be able to approach schools, kindergartens, playgrounds, parks where children or other places where children are playing. This is, therefore, a great law that we especially praise and should mention, for the first time in our country, will create a single database of sexual predators. The database, apart from names, last names, images and those classic data, will also contain a DNA profile of sexual predators, which will allow Serbia to co-operate with the international community in this area. In addition to this law, the Serbian Progressive Party will be very pleased to support the adoption of the law on the confiscation of property stemming from criminal acts. It's a law that again, the truth works, was brought in at the time of the former Justice Ministry, but it's time for some things to change evolutionaryly, to explain some things, to make things better. I will take advantage of the opportunity to say that at international meetings held by the Ministry of Justice, and where the draft strategy for reform of the judiciary or the draft anti-corruption strategy, and representatives from abroad, but also representatives of the domestic expert public have very commended the Ministry of Justice's work so far, have made very commendable statements about the draft laws entering the procedure, but we also see that the Ministry of Justice heard suggestions, both professional and international public, that some of the provisions of the Law on the confiscation of property came out of the criminal act being clarified, to explain jurisdiction, to clarify the procedure. In order to explain to the citizens what this law is about, it should start from anyone who has been legally convicted of committing criminal acts, such as the work of organised crime, the abuse of the official position, the abuse of a responsible person, the criminal act of drug trafficking, the crime of trade in pornographic material, and especially if this material contains minors, mentioned earlier, and a whole series of other acts, that all those who have made themselves rich by committing such crimes, the state will take away what they have acquired on the basis of crime and what has been taken away from them will be given for general use, or money will go into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the works of art will be given free of charge to museums, and property will be distributed according to certain criteria. It is particularly important that the proposed law lays down the higher competences of the Directorate for the Management of the same seized property. It is good that a transparent management procedure will be envisaged. It is good that now, for example, the property taken from criminals will necessarily be sold, through public ads people will be invited to buy such property. It is good that we will have the opportunity to ask the question of why some properties were given, for example, to the government of the AP Vojvodina at the time of the former Justice Ministry, and we do not know for what purposes. It is good that regular monitoring will take place over the seized property, not that we have a situation for individuals to take carjacking, drive around Belgrade, and then crash them. In one word, it is a law that will certainly hit criminals in the most difficult way possible, but will certainly contribute to the further fight against organised crime, further the fight against corruption and one level of zero tolerance that the SNS and its coalition partners have brought to Serbia in the first place. As far as basic laws are concerned, it should be said that amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure will, on the one hand, allow lawyers, lawyers, to participate equally in the defence. So far, there have been certain discriminatory provisions. It is well emphasized and I believe that especially the Association of Young Lawyers will be very pleased in Serbia with the fact that now all lawyers will be able to participate equally in judicial proceedings, which is in the end line and constitutional category. As regards the International Agreement with Bulgaria, it should be noted that, as far as data exchange is concerned, we see that the Data Securitisation Act has encountered one general approval, one general recognition by our many international partners. It is good that individual agreements, as has recently been concluded with Slovakia, as these laws and such agreements will allow for faster, better exchanges of classified data that are, in the extreme line, very often of particular importance for the fight against organised crime and corruption. In that sense, the law on the confiscation of property stemmed from a criminal act has a special chapter on international co-operation, because we are aware from practice that criminals are very often, hoping to flee from the hand of justice, hide their assets abroad, buy property abroad or put on accounts in foreign banks, or place things of great value in safes in these same banks abroad. That, thanks to the law proposed by the Justice Ministry, will be the end. It will be possible to co-operate well with other countries, in order to precisely determine where the property of criminals is located and how this property is transferred to Serbia, to be used for the needs of the budget, to be used for the people from whom these same criminals are, let us be open, and steal. Of course, when we talk about the law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence, we should also particularly commend the Ministry of Justice's efforts to put financial investigations in place as strong as possible and as much as possible the authority of the prosecutor himself who will now be handling a special unit of the Ministry of Justice dealing with financial investigations. This is a great help to our prosecutors, who have done most of the work in the fight against organised crime and corruption so far. Prosecutors are, of course, lawyers and it is always good to have the help and support of people who are professional, specially trained, most often economists, who know that, for example, they are studying balance sheets, who know how to study business cards and everything else that is important for the conduct of a financial investigation. I am particularly pleased to see one real possibility, and I think that even the citizens will recognize it, that perhaps even all the laws proposed by the Ministry of Justice will be adopted unanimously here in the National Assembly, which is just proof of the quality of the work of the Ministry of Justice and the quality of work on the legislative activity itself. It probably helped to organise a whole series of international meetings, a whole series of public debates. The justice ministry has finally returned old good practice to regularly publish drafts on the ministry's website, to be regularly appended. Of course, I am also sure that, hopefully, with unanimous adoption, and especially with the unanimous adoption of Mary’s law, it will help and carefully study all the amendments that are proposed. Allow me in the end, it is not about this topic, but I feel the need, to take the opportunity to congratulate on my behalf and on behalf of the SNS Parliament club on all Jews in the world the Pesaah holiday, especially the members of the Jewish religious community in Serbia and to greet them with the words "Hag Pesah Samah". Thank you all.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-26-0.u14114	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we are done with the list of presidents, or authorised representatives, I suggest we stop work today and continue work tomorrow at 11.00 p.m. Thank you.
