ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26480	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the judiciary in Serbia must be effective and accessible to citizens. For the U.S.A., changing a set of judicial laws is just cosmetic changes. Without a comprehensive analysis of costs, efficiency and in particular accessibility for citizens, the whole system is back to normal. The debate noted that the new network of courts would lead to significant savings. Mr. Minister, I'm asking you if you've done an analysis of the costs, what will be the specific savings and whether those savings are seen through the planned 2014 budget? When it comes to the efficiency of the courts, I also ask you the question when will the first effects of these laws be seen and when in Serbia will the past be that the litigation is averaged for seven years or that it will happen, as the other day, to stave off the application against Dusan Bajatovic, director of "Srbijagas"? I know you are not personally responsible for the application against Mr. Bayatovic, but you are somewhere more responsible to create a system in which these things will no longer happen. As regards the availability of justice to citizens, in the light of the bill, you have literally stated that the right to equal and easy access to court is expected. This is going to be the biggest problem and it's going to happen exactly the opposite. A new network of courts opens up thirty new basic courts, which is good, but a large number of judicial units are being shut down and this will be a major problem for justice to be available to citizens. Here, I'll give you an example of the Duke, for I live in Vojvodina. Seven new courts will be established, and we from the U.S.S. are commending it. However, 18 judicial units will be shut down. If we know that there have been no judicial units in four municipalities before, we will now be in a situation that literally half of the municipalities in Vojvodina will have no courts, no judicial units. In these 18 municipalities where you have abolished the judicial units, some 350,000 citizens live and they will not have adequate access to justice as of January 1st. They'll have to travel tens of miles to make an example. to carry out a leaven debate, to exercise the right to unpaid earnings, to alimony or to obtain custody of children. The majority of citizens are now addressing the basic courts and their judicial units in order to achieve their fundamental rights and interests. Citizens will have great costs because of this network to achieve their rights and interests. For example, mothers from Kovačica will have to go several times to Pančevo, which is more than 30km away to obtain confirmation based on which they can exercise the right to a parental allowance. I have the impression that all the burden of the new network of courts will fall right on the citizens. For example, how did the Ojacs, a municipality of 30,000, run out of court? Does this mean that a mother who wants to exercise the right to alimony or custody of her child will have to travel several times to Somboro, who is 37 kilometers away from Odzak, or a worker who has been illegally fired or not paid his salary, will have to travel to Novi Sad almost 50 kilometers away. In southern Banat, where I live, three judicial units have been abolished – in Plandište, Alibunar and Kovacica. Alibunar and Kovačica are over 30km away from Panchev and will now have to go there to exercise their rights. I want to ask you how many judges in Alibunar, how many of them live in Alibunar, and does that mean that now these judges will have to, together with the citizens, travel to Pancevo and will it represent additional costs? All in Serbia are aware of the needs of Serbia's even regional development and that all parts of Serbia have equal chances, the right to develop, that they have approximately equal living conditions, availability of education, different institutions, health care, justice. Unfortunately, the bill does not contribute to even regional development at all, on the contrary, only deepens these differences. That is why the URS has submitted a series of amendments that will primarily require the return of judicial units to certain municipalities, so that justice can be made available to citizens. Mr. Minister, when the teacher leaves one place, the doctor goes away, the judge goes away, and you say yourself, those places lose their souls. For teachers, doctors and judges go and people, because in these places they don't see their perspective for a longer life. If we continue like this and continue to pass laws like this, we will literally be left with nothing but empty territory without people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26481	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26482	Thank you, Chairman. The very fact that we have been discussing this set of laws for the third day, as well as the fact that a large number of MPs have taken part in the principle debate on this issue, as well as the fact that a significant number of amendments have been submitted under these laws, clearly states that there is a great interest in Serbia when we talk about justice. And not only is that great interest represented by the MPs. I haven't had a chance in a long time, when we're discussing a law, to get more calls as a national MP from citizens around our country, from representatives of local self-government, but also from representatives of the economy, from those who want to invest in our country and who are interested in what kind of justice we will have in the coming period. Clearly, without good justice, there is neither development nor progress in our country, nor do we need modernization. In one word, I can say that in addition to one great desire for employment, there is one great desire for justice in the country of Serbia. Today, the Serbian judiciary faces a series of problems, and that is not news. It is not my assessment, as opposition MPs, that is the assessment of all those who meet daily and who have some relationship with the Serbian judiciary, but also relevant international organisations. Mr. Minister, we know that you have inherited a lot from the previous period, and we all remember this failed reform, but on the other hand, we are aware that there is no magic wand for solving problems in the Serbian judiciary and that this is not a problem that will be solved overnight, but it is a process and a process that takes place. Of course, in order for this process to be well brought to its end, we must lay good foundations. What characterizes these proposals of yours, and the most debates have just been about the law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, clearly points to the fact that you have tried to find a balanced solution, to satisfy more parameters and to come before us MPs and all together bring the best solution to our judiciary. First of all, the availability of justice and our obligation to all our citizens to have justice available to them in the right way, and to that citizen and the locality of a golden village in the same way as the citizen of the Belgrade municipality Vračar or Stari Grad. It is clear that these laws have tried to increase and improve the efficiency of the Serbian judiciary, but it is also clear that you had to take care of the financial effects. What I'm saying is, where I'm making an observation and an objection, it seems to me that one parameter and one criterion have not been considered enough, and this parameter concerns a huge problem facing today, the country of Serbia - the problem of our country's harsh centralisation. Today Serbia is one of the most centralised countries in Europe and this centralisation leaves a mark on all spheres of our lives. Someone will say -- it's not the biggest problem of the country of Serbia today, but I will say that all those problems that we didn't take seriously and that we solved ad hoc and broke, made decisions over the knee, came one day to collect. It is this heartless centralization that the government in Serbia today can one day, and I am sure that if we do not approach this problem properly, we will come to collect, as many other problems have come to our attention. Why am I saying this? I speak precisely for the reason that I believe that the abolition of individual judicial units does not go hand in hand to the reduction of this large centralization, as I said, of a soulless centralization in our country. More and more of our citizens from our country's border areas are leaving their hearths, leaving their villages, the townships, moving towards cities, towards larger centres. In this way we have territories without a population, but on the other hand, we have overpopulated cities, where that overcrowding creates huge problems. When you talk to people from these towns today, from these smaller municipalities, they'll tell you that the key problem is the lack of work. On the other hand, he will also say that the departure of certain institutions from their place, from their municipality, is a huge problem and a clear signal that the state in some way does not count on those municipalities. When I spoke to the people of Nova Varoshi the other day, and I'm sure you know the problem of Nova Varoshi well, a local told me – that now we have a court unit from Nova Varoshi, the state has raised its hands from Nova Varoshi. The state must not raise its hands from any place in this country, from any municipality, from any small town, and I'm sure you know that well. I'm sure when you consider amendments, you'll have that in mind. The Law on Seats and Areas of Courts provides for an increase in the number of basic courts from 34 to 66, but you have therefore abolished 43 judicial units in central Serbia 25 and Vojvodina 18. You propose to form reception offices in the transitional period until the moment of the notary. Public notebooks start their work. I am not sure that you too believe that the public record service and their implementation in the Serbian judiciary will work and react in the right way from the start. You know how much trouble there has been in the implementation of the public record service so far, but I can't believe it's going to work from the very beginning so we can rely on it. There is also a question of the tariffs of public notebooks, and it might be interesting to tell us what financial effect will be on our citizens when public notebooks do very important things for them? It's clear to all of us today that it's not easy to find a well-balanced solution and avoid being a mere critic, avoiding me managing cheap local patriotism, I have to point out some remarks and some bad solutions in this law. It concerns the abolition of judicial units in certain places. All I'm going to talk about right now is proposals from people from local self-government. The URS parliamentary group presents to this Assembly the demands of local self-government, the demands of citizens from those places. Since 1966, there has been a municipal court for the territory of the municipality of Batocino and Lapovo in Batocina. A territory where more than 30,000 inhabitants are gravitated. The previous judicial reform, which apparently was based more on quantity than quality, abolished the Municipal Court after 33 years of existence and established a judicial unit operating within the Kragujevac court since 1 January 2010. Four judges and 15 others work in the Batocina court today. The court unit has eight equipped courtrooms, three trainee offices and volunteers, a equipped office with special offices, a court security area, a reception hall and what is most important in the context of this judicial unit is processed between six and six and a half thousand cases. The proposal for a Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors provides for the abolition of this judicial unit, and the committees of the local parliament unanimously reached a conclusion on this proposal of the law and directed it precisely to the competent ministry to keep the judicial unit in place, because the abolition of institutions is indeed born and justified fear especially in small areas, so that it begins to slowly put life out in one place. A similar request was made by representatives of local self-government and citizens of Bolec. Bolovac municipality is one of the most dissociative municipalities in the republic that extends to 827 square kilometers with about 14 thousand inhabitants. A demographic picture of Bolec and such a bad one, with mostly nursing households, expressed migration of young people to larger cultural and educational centres, and going after the justice of Zaječar, which is 40 kilometers from the center of the municipality, and from the remote villages of Krivi Vir, Ruište and Bačevica and over 60 kilometers away, would be an attack on the already difficult social, material situation of the citizens of Bolec. It's a similar case with the Srlig municipality. At the very end of this speech, I'm going to say something about the municipality of Nova Varosh, since I'm from the Zlatibor County. The municipality of Nova Varoš according to the latest census has 16.750 citizens. There is not a small number of municipalities in Serbia with approximately the same or smaller population, for which the Bill on Headquarterss and Areas of Courts and Prosecutors provides for the establishment of a basic court or judicial unit. Since the proposal for a new law abolishes the judicial unit in Novi Varosh, which is deviating from the objectives of the strategy, it means that citizens of the municipality of Nova Varoš have to travel 120km to get to their justice in order to get to the primary court of Prepolje. For example, the local community of Dragica bordering the municipality of Čajetina is 60km away from Prijepolje. The Bela Reka Meat Community, Tisovica, Household, Milojkovica... . (President: Mr. Mitrovica, time. ) They are about 50 miles [50 km] away from Prijepolje in one direction. Together with all these suggestions that are coming... . (President: Mr. Mitrovica, I have extended you for two minutes, please. ) Together with all of them, the requirement is that when you consider amendments, pay attention and we in the U.S.R.S. want to encourage you to make a favourable assessment of these municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26483	The honourable MPs, since the lists of MPs are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of the joint principled search, ask if they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? National MP Borislav Stefanovic wants a word. You have three minutes and 10 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26484	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, for three minutes cannot be regrettable enough to present all the negative aspects of the laws in question that have been passed in the National Assembly and the situation is very low and bad in our judiciary at the moment. What we must say as a sublimation of everything we have said so far about the proposals that have come to the National Assembly is this – our judiciary is unfortunately still slow and ineffective. Our judiciary didn't cut costs today. Our judiciary today puts much more into the role of listening, understanding and applying better executive authorities. Our judiciary is through these proposals today, the fact is that 50 municipalities and seats in Serbia will no longer be given to a judicial unit or court, making it impossible to access Serbia's citizens' justice at large. What you have succeeded for your over a year and a half of the ministry is that the situation in our judiciary is unfortunately worsened, that we have a large number of outdated cases, including those most sounding as "Yugoscan", and we see that the application against Mr. Bajatovic is outdated. The judges have never been in the Serbian court system since you returned over 600 judges with a SNS membership card, and efficiency is low. On the cost of saying that the costs are falling, I must say that, according to the 2014 budget for the citizens of Serbia, for the functioning of the courts, you have foreseen more than a billion dinars for the 2014 budget. For the basic courts for travel expenses, you predicted 6 million dinars, and there were five million dinars. For basic courts, you totaled nearly 10 billion dinars compared to 8 billion and 900 million as before. You talked about rationalization, you talked about cost cuts, you talked about the past. Unfortunately, the present absolutely disproves you in the sense that you have the capacity to achieve some positive result in the future at all. You are in any case in this way separating a huge number of Serbian citizens from the availability of justice. Places in Serbia were separated from what you yourself stood for, which is that they have a judicial unit or a court in their place. So you entered deep contradiction with your words and your politics. You, Mr. Minister, have shown what progressive justice and justice are and have shown that you do not understand the needs of citizens and have unfortunately shown citizens that besides the big words, your results are more than thin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26485	Since none of the authorised representatives appear anymore, I give the word to Minister Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26486	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, how symbolically a single round of applause sounds to a series of empty and meaningless words that can be heard. Be as polite as I can listen to false, notorious lies and nonsense that can be told on my account and on my work. Sometimes we wonder how someone has the moral right to talk about things. My brother says a saying. You see a thorn in my eye, and you do not see a log in yours. That's the way it is in this case. A professional association came out with an estimate a few days ago that the election was carried out or, as one says, by re-election of Serbia's judicial office holders, which was carried out at the end of 2009, some 15m euros worth of damage was done. Fifteenm euros for which about 15,000 new jobs could be opened. Fifteen million euros that could have been arranged for me not to say how many courts, prosecutors, schools, hospitals. Fifteenm euros, which Serbia's citizens, who are struggling with these difficult conditions of full RS budget, will have to pay for the misdemeanours that have been deliberately or unwittingly, I believe that they will be established, made in their work, which is why for the first time in Europe, 30% of the legal holders have left on the street without being eligible for reasons why they are doing this. Fifteenm euros is so costing to make at this time two buildings for the accommodation of several courts and prosecutors in Belgrade. They cost so much that they can get equipment, say, two new prisons in Serbia, which would speed up much more work. But, as I just said, 15,000 new jobs for 15 million euros. Fifteen million times you should write it down, write it down and repeat it, not once, and have cheeks and talk about something afterwards. One of our great poets said about someone - it's not the strongest because he's very brave, it's because he's not ashamed of anything. Although I planned to speak much shorter in the final word of the debate in principle, I have to look back on this, because when someone 100 times repeats the truth, they probably tend to make it the truth, so on and so forth. It's very low and bad in Serbia's judiciary, that's right. It's amazing that the logical accent of quoting the Venice Commission's expertise was not exactly on it, although some cosmetics are mostly in the head, and the Venice Commission is not into cosmetics. She says that, most of the time, there are technical amendments to the law and, of course, where technical mistakes have been made, there should be technical changes, but I think that two MPs of one opposition party were very dim, with the intention of showing that the Ministry is doing bad and deals only with correcting some technical shortcomings, quoting the expertise of the Venice Commission and in it the following words – quite technical. So the changes are quite technical, they seem not large, given the difficult situation in which the Serbian judiciary is located. Now that is the logical accent of the Venice Commission report – given the difficult situation. Why did the difficult situation of five years ago turn into an even more difficult state? If that situation hadn't been difficult, we probably wouldn't have come to power and you'd probably still be in power, but since the citizens of Serbia and how they recognized who was doing the wrong thing, they knew that in the elections. So those who were masters of cosmetics see cosmetics, so they often know how to give a speech like in front of a mirror, talking about their model smiles and cabinet encouragement. (Sendors of the DS are getting out of place: What are those words? Very appropriate. (Janko Vesenović, from the post: Chairman, do you listen to what he says? )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26487	Please don't throw it away. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26488	I apologize if anyone is called, probably because his conscience doesn't allow him to be recognized in these words, but I have an obligation both to myself and to the government ahead of which I speak and to the citizens of Serbia to say things as they are and to politely call them the right name. A question has been asked here by the MPs of one other party and I have to say it openly, because it was a rather unprincipled presentation. It is said: changes are cosmetic. It's cosmetics again. Further - are cost analyses arranged and will financial savings be visible in the next budget? It has also been said that the proposed network is bad, deprives many citizens and populated areas of judicial units and access to justice. You see, this proposal for a law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors was submitted by the government to the Assembly in April of this year. At that time, members of the party were part of the ruling majority. Absolutely none of them, nor their representatives then stood up in the government of the Republic of Serbia and said something like this. Some of them voted with both hands, as they say, for a bill like this, and in that part, the bill remained exactly the same as it was in April this year. Have any financial analyses been made? Sure. Where we had the material to do it, we did it. It's a catastrophic situation that most judicial units haven't kept any records of spending money and you couldn't do any financial-material business analysis. Without that kind of analysis, we wouldn't have entered a project like this. Such analyses have been presented on two occasions to the European Enlargement Commissioner and then welcomed by the face-to-face with the following things to be done. The cost question has been raised and again someone who has been very skillfully trying to deceive the public. Someone says -- you know, you've raised your expenses in the next budget, and you've promised savings. And you know, on October 1st, the new Code of Criminal Procedure, which was proposed by the previous ruling majority, adopted it, and in the financial effects of this law is stated -- we don't know what it will be, but we'll be able to estimate how much money will be spent, so we'll predict that much. Well, of course there's more money in the next budget. What do you think public prosecutors and courts are doing? What makes you think there's a prosecutor's investigation that now needs prosecutors to deal with, not judges? Of course there should be more money. Am I happy that the costs are increasing in that part? I'm not, but I'm glad that on this side, as far as the network of courts is concerned, we're gonna cut the costs. Everything else is very unprincipled and quite demagogue. It is not true that a large number of citizens are separated from justice. If anyone wants to criticize something, then it's quite fair, gentlemanly and correct to take and listen from the beginning to some explanation, to some exposure, to hear that as an authorised representative of the promoter, I have several times reiterated that we are insisting on introducing a practice of maintaining the days of judgment. Statistics were presented that were incomplete again. If you say that there are 6,500 cases in one judicial unit, and you keep quiet that out of those 6,500 cases about 4,800 cases are executions based on credible documents. So, something that now deals with each day more and more private perpetrators. Then these aren't classic litigation cases. Then it's not a work dispute. Then it's not marriage and family matters, it's much less. Although the debate was in principle, and I expect much more discussions of this kind in particular, there are examples of certain municipalities where it is possible to make a mistake in the proposal, but that is why the National Assembly is the highest authority in the Republic of Serbia, so the National Assembly is not the root of a river that should only run through it and therefore there is a debate in the principle and in particular and the possibility to intervene in the draft law and to correct it. Yesterday, one MP said – consider our remarks to be well-intentioned. That's what I get. Whenever they're like that, they're always accepted. See if so many amendments have been accepted in the past 15 months from any resor in the case of laws proposed by the Government in front of the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration. I think that's good, and I think that's what separates us from some old practice where the Assembly was just a trough through which the river could flow and never return to it again. There's a legislative authority here, and as such, it's supposed to exist. So the days of judges should be organized. And yes, there is a difference between the judicial units that are planned to be shut down. For example, this is where the town of Shadows is mentioned. I spoke yesterday. I'll mention it again. There's work to be done in January for 1.01 judges, and there are currently two judges deployed there. So, there's a judge there who pays without a job. Isn't it cheaper to send once every two or once every three weeks a judge to that place, to schedule hearings, to hold them, than to pay three weeks in an empty walk functioning an entire judicial unit. As everyone can see, according to these proposals, the judicial unit is no longer what it was, or what it is now under existing laws, but it is literally a court without the accompanying administrative services and management, but a court in which all matter can be tried. Does this mean, is this proposal for a network, if adopted, means that for deserts, unrealized earnings, alimony, it is said here that whether from Odjak will mean that the mother will have to travel 37 kilometers to Sombor so that she can exercise her right to alimony? Well, they won't, because that judge will come as many cases as there are. He will come to Odzak, hold the hearing, if there is to be a verdict, declare the verdict, and the matter will be done. It is true, and I do not exorcise my words, that when a teacher departs from one city, when the doctor leaves, when the judge goes away, as if you took both his soul and his mind and his conscience. Unfortunately, we have more and more municipalities to go from, and teachers and doctors, and then we have to stay for the court. At one point under the pretense, the court, because it's not a court, it's a defiled judicial unit. At some point, who is to be tried? Is it possible that the dead are dead? Does the state care about that place? Yes, but I didn't hear anyone say that the companies left the place first, the capital went away, the workers went away, the money went away, and when the capital went away, people started leaving, and when the people and the companies that are the subjects of the right then the one who has to decide the rights were left without their jobs. Unfortunately, so is the village where people die and children are no longer born, the priest will no longer live, but he comes from a neighboring diocese and baptizes, if sometimes it happens to be baptized and married but mostly to bury. It is Serbia's sad and difficult fate today. Is this a set-up proposal? It's not. It can be changed to your amendments, it can be changed and improved and amended by the committees, but it should be corrected by the economic development of the Republic of Serbia. When investors start coming back in less environments, new jobs opening up, young people forming families there, then courts will have something to do. We mostly don't like this network, but it's a picture and an opportunity for Serbia today. I don't want to keep you very much anymore, but indeed, whether someone who has done so much damage to the Serbian judiciary, the Republic of Serbia, those who do so to the judiciary, can be the loudest in criticising the situation in which the judiciary is located. My opinion is that you don't need to be heard. I believe, I am convinced that a large number of Serbian citizens share that opinion. Yesterday, there was indeed a light of untrueness. I don't know if any of them should be affected, but I'll say something. The question has been asked. I'm going to quote someone, he says -- why didn't you question Mr. Minister why those who were returned to the Constitutional Court's decisions were unselected? I don't know which way again – because we question the choice of each of the chosen ones, because if one body chose the judges, then it missed 600 judges, explain to me how it hit those 1,200? How did that hit the 1,200? Where's the elemental logic? He says -- never again judges in Serbia. Whoever said that has fooled everyone. That's not true. If you look at it in numbers, the number of judges in Serbia today and in Serbia five years ago is about the same. Almost identical number, but still someone doesn't want to say it. Why? So he can deceive the public. Why deceive the public? Because even after leaving power 16 months of these same, day by day the consequences of their actions in the judiciary are getting bigger and bigger and harder to fight with. Is that some alibi for those who exercise power today? It's not an alibi and it shouldn't be. It should be minimally correct to that level, so to say - 15,000,000 euros in damages only in the judiciary. Where's that? What's the damage? Why were salaries paid to people who didn't work? Will someone explain it? Let's not talk about how much time it took to travel. Is that what we're not talking about? As in medieval England, a traveling king's court. Too bad you didn't go, maybe you'd stay in power if you did. So, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize for taking more time than I planned. But, you know, I'd better ask you, and you'd better learn not to earn when someone's talking and being so polite and correct, even if you can justify the name of the party they are in, to the minimum extent that democracy means. I apologize if I've taken too much time, but in the debate, in principle, it's been excruciating where possible shortcomings are especially in the Law on Headquarterss and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. I remain with what I have said that laws should be changed gradually and carefully, that although someone expected a revolutionary procedure. I repeat, I am more for evolution than for revolution, and I am convinced that in the debate in particular of joint efforts, we will succeed in the lack of these draft laws that have been identified and about which several different parliamentary groups have been the authorities, whether the opposition has debated and drew attention to them, that we will be in a situation and that we will correct these shortcomings. Thank you for your constructive discussion. Thank you to those who spoke for both the law and the law. Because if it weren't for those who spoke against the law, then the parliamentary procedure wouldn't have made any big sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26489	I'm just asking if anyone wants to hurt the Rules of Procedure. The word is Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26490	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly. You cannot, Mr. Chairman, allow the minister to address the MPs in this way, is not the level to be discussed on such important drafts of the law. The minister is a guest in this assembly, he can't insult the MPs, he can't say that the MPs have no face. There's no face who for 22 years, Mr. Minister, has been saying that there is a need for war and a fight against the international community. He's got no cheek. And as for the 15 million damages... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26491	Mr. Jovanovic, I do not allow you a replica. It is my sole right to warn you, better to warn you than to warn you now, because you abuse the Rules of Procedure. Does anyone else want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? There's no line, since this was the final word. Here, you can hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26492	Article 106 and Article 108. So, you, Mr. Chairman, have allowed the minister to really step out of the box at one point and to speak politely and civilisedly. I think what we heard here today is really below each level and not even worthy of the “Combank arena”, not the National Assembly. I think I understand that if someone is in a position to be a minister in the government, to deal with Slovenian antithesis, as their president, to deal with "chocolate panic", he gets involved, so he gets involved. He's asking himself, so he's answering himself. It's not a replica, but the fact is, I'm explaining to you the context of how the minister spoke to us. He is not the minister of measures and metals and scales, that he measures how much support he has and how strong he is and that insults us and who has a model smile. Minister Selakovic is talking about a model smile. You understand, it can't be in the National Assembly. He can say we're not telling the truth, he can say it's not true what we say. He can say we're wrong, he can correct us, he can give his argument, I understand that. But to say that we're funny, that we have no cheeks, that we measure our applause here, that we're talking nonsense. We can't give applause, we're shocked by what you're saying, Minister. I know you like each other's cheeks, but don't remind us here today. The main thing is, instead of giving these qualifications to the opposition, you should have introduced the citizens to the fact that the Constitutional Court's decision does not end the re-election process and to examine who these judges are that are not allowed to perform that function, not to talk about costs. How much will your expenses be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26493	Please, I have to find out, I don't think there's been any breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I have to realize that your exposure in the end was very negative in relation to the existing law. It's your right. I don't argue with that. So, I'm not arguing, that's your right and you're entitled to it. But such expression produced a clear and appropriate answer. (National MP Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: That is not true. ) So my opinion is like that, and I don't think it came, nor did the minister intend to insult anyone, but he simply responded to the problems you've raised in terms of this law. You have the right to declare whether there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, or if the Assembly is to declare itself. Is that what you want? No, I don't. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26494	I'm advertising Article 27. I think you really should have warned Mr. Secretary not to label our statements, he can say we're wrong, to refute the facts, to make new arguments. I believe he prefers to listen to praises on his own account, but simply we of the opposition have the right to point out some facts. I don't know why the minister feels called somewhere, I speak for 350,000 people of Vojvodina, who will in some way be separated from justice. A large number of citizens and Kovin, and Alibunara, and Kovacs spoke to me. I simply had a need and obligation to bring up the problems they would have. These were only well-intentioned criticisms, I call on the minister, that when we discuss amendments, we conduct constructive discussions at the level of arguments and without labelling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26495	Please, don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. So you have the right to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you do not have the right to use an infringement of the institution, injure the Rules of Procedure. The fact that you recognized yourself is another thing, but the minister didn't call anyone from your party by name or by name, not even a party called. Please, in that sense, I don't think there's been any breach of the Rules of Procedure. You have the right to plead that the Assembly in the voting day declares the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to? No, I don't. Thank you. Srdjan Milivojevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26496	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am advertising the two members of the Rules of Procedure that we have all hurt together in this room, but this is Article 108, which says that it is the order at the session of the National Assembly of the Old President of the National Assembly and Article 32, which says that the Vice-President of the National Assembly, who replaces the President of the National Assembly, has the authority of the President of the National Assembly, but is not said to have greater powers, but rather these powers that the President has. Here's what the injury consists of. We are MPs here, elected by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and we have chosen the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its representative, he was the Prime Minister, the President, the First Vice President, when he came to this room to account for us, not us. He must make sure that he is elected in this parliament by the will of the majority and by the will of the MPs representing the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When he tells us we're rude, he sends that message to every voter who voted for us. The MP in this room always has more rights than the minister. What the MP can say, he says on behalf of the citizens who chose him, not on behalf of the political party. The minister speaks for the government. And in the end, I would never trade my insolence for someone's decency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26497	I can agree on the part of your advertising of the Rules of Procedure on rights and obligations and MPs and ministers. However, I do not see that the minister had any intention of insulting anyone at all, he explained, on the contrary, the minor individual objections to the law that MPs had given, whether or not someone liked it now, that's another question. You have the right to ask us to plead. Milivovich, do you want to make a statement in the voting day? Yeah. ) Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26498	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, first of all, I want to advertise Article 103, 108 and 109. Article 103 says the MP has the right to advertise violations of the Rules of Procedure, Article 108 and 109 gives certain powers to the chairman, who can use them but does not have to. The Rules of Procedure don't say he doesn't have to, but first of all, I want to protest because during the presentation of the minister, it was thrown out of the bench of those led by the professor of law school, so they should also know in their address to the minister, I'm talking about where the injured Rules of Procedure is. Every act, including the Rules of Procedure, since the Declaration of Human Rights and Citizens of 1789, says that the rights of one individual cannot be at the expense of the rights of others. So also here, if MPs speak properly to the minister, he certainly has the same right to address these same MPs. As for throwing out of the O.R., from certain benches, led by a professor of law school, I think it's a very bad example for his students, for the respect of the Rules of Procedure, and I think you could, and you didn't have to give a warning. You deserve my respect by not giving notice to the opposition, and we remember all of the previous calls, when they very often and very rigorously used such provisions of the Rules of Procedure that they wrote, not us. That's not what I'm asking in the day to vote on this vote and a lot of respect for your patience for the opposition that stepped out of all its rights, at least in my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26499	I accept your advertising of the Rules of Procedure in that regard, but if I were to strictly adhere to the Rules of Procedure, then you would be here as many as there are 90% of you getting warnings. If it's about tossing, then it's the same thing for both left and right, and neither left nor right, nor the environment is quite immune from throwing, so I ask you to help me in that sense and do not ask for sanctions to be applied to others by forgetting yourself. Thank you for not asking us to come forward in the voting day. The word has Borislav Stefanovic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and please let us interrupt more. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26500	I'm also asking the chairman. So Article 103, Article 104, Article 107 again. Please, Chairman, there is one thing that remains unclear, in which way you as chairman know what Minister Selakovic thinks and what his intentions are. On the basis of your knowledge of his intentions, you explain to us what he was actually trying to say, and you exceeded the authority of the chairman, and you got the authority of psychics. So, I'm asking you not to take it maliciously, I'm just trying to explain that you made a mistake here, perhaps by accident. The other thing, because of the cast, so within these members, one MP constantly told you yesterday, throws it away. You don't look back at it. A man just can't stand not to throw and throw and yell all the time every time he talks to someone from the DS. Please apply that archine. I accept the responsibility of the work of our MPs, but please take a look at that right-hand side from which you certainly hear what a man yells all the time. If he can't be controlled, they can put him in some frame of something, let him talk to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26501	I'd start with this second part. I've already answered, and Mr. Rističević's remarks were similar, and I couldn't agree more. It's really unacceptable for me for MPs to get out of the place, especially when they're often offensive, though, I can't even hear it because I'm following the exhibitions, but I'm asking you, I can really apply it like that, and I'm starting to warn, but I don't think that's the point, I prefer that we as people here really respect each other and respect each other. As far as the first part is concerned, the least I'd like to do is interpret the minister's position or opinion. He's here to explain the law and defend it. I have just concluded on the basis of hearing the debates of both opposition, positions, and the minister of this law. My conclusion is what I said based on my seeing this debate and nothing else and I really don't think and I never want to interpret other people's thoughts, which would not be polite. If that's what you realize, I'm really, really sorry about that. We end work today, we conclude a joint principled search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda. We interrupt work with the Fourth Session and continue work tomorrow 7 November 2013 at 10.00 hours. I'm also informing you that the fifth session scheduled at 13.00 hours will begin at the scheduled time. Thank you. [[Session interrupted at 12.25 hours]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26502	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE COURT OF STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT The fifth session of the Second Regular Session (unregulated and unauthorized) of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 6 November 2013 (The session began at 1:15 p.m.). The session is chaired by Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26503	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. We need to determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 134 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. they are present from a total number of MPs and there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Jovana Mehandzic Djurdzic, Gordana Comic, Bauer Ivan and Neven Cvetićan. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the draft acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly need the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts under emergency procedure. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, a proposal for a decision to give consent to a decision on amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2013, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 1 November 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 145 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The president of the National Assembly proposed that the draft decision establishing the composition of the parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee, which submitted to the National Assembly on 5 November 2013, should be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have made a statement on the proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 5th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, in general. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a decision establishing the composition of the parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee. We're going to work on a set agenda. The first item of the agenda - Proposal for a Decision on the establishment of the Assembly of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilization and Association You adopted a proposal for a decision taken by the President of the National Assembly. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, according to Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, and what you have obtained in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3, but with Article 157(1), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the proposal for a decision on the establishment of a parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee. Does the promoter want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is by MP Sanja Cekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26504	Mr. President, respected colleagues, the need to form a Stabilisation and Association Committee together for Serbia is absolutely supported and we believe that at this point, it is necessary to have such a committee that will help Serbia finish everything that is our obligation to Europe as soon as possible and in a better way. What we can't support and why I'm going to ask you to explain to me, as a proposing, what happened, which is that the MP club Together for Serbia, which numbers seven MPs, does not have a representative on the board who has 15 members. Why don't we have a representative? What arches, by which mathematics, by which amount did you share, and do you think that the MP club Together for Serbia would not make a contribution to this extremely important committee? I would ask you to give me an answer, so your answer will depend on my further discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26505	The President of the Assembly, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26506	I wish this board could count a lot more members, so we could put a lot more MPs. However, since the committee is formed analoguely, i.e. by analogy with the congregation’s working bodies, we, when we formed, established the composition of the committee, made sure that all parliamentary groups were represented in this committee in proportion to their strength in the National Assembly. A mathematical scale as well as in all other committees, as well as in all other working bodies, as well as in congregation committees, permanent committees of the National Assembly. There is a possibility that we can talk in the future, because there are no precise provisions as to how it works. We had the opportunity to make adjustments in previous periods in some committees. At this point, we do not have most of the majority in the permanent assembly committees, which is a parliamentary obligation. We simply felt that these were not at present the priorities of the National Assembly. This is an important committee, and I agree with you, and I suggest that in the next period we look, when I say the next period, I mean in recent times, a common solution to how to get more people, who want to get involved and work on this board, turn on and try to make one of those kind of arrangements. However, we had to react relatively quickly because the first session, a joint session of the Committee with EU parliamentarians, was already held on 15 November, in order to allow the adoption of certain regulations and other sublegal acts that would allow the work of the Committee to be of quality. We've done this this way, I say, again in accordance with previous parliamentary practice. I say, there's a mood, I trust most of the MPs, to sit down and talk. If there's a chance that it can be improved in any way, we can do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26507	The word is by MP Sanja Cekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26508	I expected your explanation to be such that it wouldn't give me an answer. We see in this that you simply did not want to involve all the parliamentary groups in the work of such an important committee. We don't know if you've distributed to larger Europeans, smaller, medium, lower, more, but no reason why the MP club of the ZZ is not part of this committee, no reason. Mr. President, a ratio of 15 members of 250 MPs is very easy to calculate. At this point, we do not want to influence any parliamentary group to feel uncomfortable because it has its members. We want to tell you that you have not acted democratically and should be done by the President of Parliament, who respects all parliamentary groups in the same way. This House has not existed since you are the speaker of parliament, there has been a long number of years, and in the most difficult times of the 1990s, we who were then MPs have managed to fight with the strong majority to respect each parliamentary group. In this I see your bad intentions and your incorrect relationship with us, and I don't know what we've caused it. I don't believe in your well-meaning. I believe in something called a non-democratic principle in the division of board members within this committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26509	The president of the Parliament Nebojsa Stefanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26510	I realize that those who don't have their representatives on the board are dissatisfied with that fact and that's legitimate. Once again, it's not about any attempt to shut anyone out of work on this committee. After all, the MPs are exactly the same in this room, both in every other place and in the work, no one can stop them, those who want to work, of course. Those who don't want to work, no one can force them to. As far as the board is concerned, everything that has been applied in the long democratic, parliamentary practice since the 1990s has been applied, all applied in the composition of this committee, the exact same rules that have been applied and when the working bodies of the National Assembly have been drawn up in this, previous and many other councils in which many parties who have participated in the work of the 90s have made their contribution this time. I understand that someone cannot be satisfied if there is not a sufficient number of MPs, so it cannot participate equally with someone who has a number of MPs, but it is democracy. It is democracy, to respect the power of the MPs, because if all the parliamentary groups were equal, then we could never choose the government. The government is elected by the largest number of MPs, more than 126. At this point, we will have a proposal that will be in front of the MPs. You could have reacted to the amendment, and you didn't do it. You didn't propose any change to this proposal, and you had the right to do so. If you had suggested, perhaps the National Assembly would have declared that. There's nothing to say about this. I appreciate your rhetorical performances, but you've practically done nothing to change this decision. So I don't think you can be unhappy, or at least you haven't formally shown that you're unhappy. One who is dissatisfied with something, by any proposed law, submits an amendment, and then the National Assembly decides most of the votes. In this sense, I really don't think I've done anything to hurt anyone. After all, the National Assembly will declare this when it votes on this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26511	It's Mrs. Cekovic's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26512	Your explanation strengthened me in the fact that you have no democratic principles. You are now returning me to the number of MPs, as if we didn't see a proposal that the parliamentary groups that have the same number of MPs or, unlike one, two, got a board member and brought me back to some story that I'm not going to participate in. I don't want to take offense on behalf of the MPs' club of the LZS, and the proposal shows that we don't have members here and that there aren't any members of the LSV, which is certainly their decision to make. What you're telling me is that we can be watchers on the board that's going to work, that's nothing new. All MPs may attend the committee. President, where is your democratic will to honor all MPs and MPs? Back to the story that we could change our reaction, so by amendment, we could do with my speech, by our dissent, but where is your will? Where's your memo to the MP club ZZS, where you say – gentlemen of the Parliament club, we have 15 members, you can't get this, the coefficient is that big, come talk, so you'll share a member, you'll have deputies, etc.? You didn't convince me, you probably didn't convince most of the MPs, because, in principle, in Serbia, whoever gets it, it's not people, and whoever doesn't get it, it's angry. Your principles are bad, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26513	The president of the Parliament Nebojsa Stefanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26514	Maybe he can do it one way or another. In the National Assembly when something changes, an amendment must be proposed. It cannot be changed by making a statement at a session of the National Assembly. That's the law, that's the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure say something changes with the amendment. It's something I wouldn't go further into. This is the widest consensus we've been able to achieve at this point. If there is a way and a place not to threaten, because every Parliament club has the right to disown its members for the benefit of someone else, and I will not dispute that, but this is the principle by which we have established the work of all the other committees and in this way we will establish the work of this committee. Anything else, if there's an agreement, I can't influence the parliamentary groups not to exercise their right. They have the right to do so, and anyone who has the right to proceed from the way he is formed and from other committees has the right to benefit, as he has the right and to disown him. I can't influence that. I can only set clear rules, the percentage that has been established, that is, the ratio established on the basis of the number of MPs at the disposal of the parliamentary group. It is, unfortunately, a model of 15 members. I'm not 20, I'm 15.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26515	Mrs. Cekovic, I'll give you another replica this time. I don't think there's any point anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26516	It's a scale, and now you're re-respecting the amendment. Why didn't you, as president of the Assembly, address the MP club of the ZZ and say, "It belongs to you, it doesn't belong to you, you pull out that amount, and then discuss it?" It's just that, uh, this pampering discussion that you're trying to convince me isn't working. Willfully, democratic principles have been brought down in determining the members of this committee and that's the point. That's what you influenced. I don't know why, but one whole parliamentary group has been skipped. Fifteen is divided into all numbers, so when those numbers are obtained, they're assigned. So I don't go into the details of this proposal now, because I repeat, we have nothing against the other parliamentary groups and against the MPs. We're against your non-democratic principle. So the role of Parliament's president in the schedule of the Stabilisation and Association Committee members has not been done in a democratic manner, as appropriate to Parliament's president.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26517	The president of the Parliament Nebojsa Stefanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26518	Whether a democratic will is violated, or a democratic principle will be decided by most of the MPs. This cannot be decided by any MP of the people for himself, nor by the injury of the Rules of Procedure. So, if most MPs accept this principle, I believe that they will be in favour of respecting the democratic will then. If they do not accept it, they may also accept the views that it was not a democratic principle, but it will be decided by most MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26519	We're done with the replicas. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26520	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this is an extremely important topic and I would like to refer to my colleague Cekovic's discussion. I think this was an opportunity for the current ruling majority to demonstrate democratic capacity, so we don't come into a situation where amendments change the composition of such an important committee. First of all, I do not agree that this was possible at all, given that in principle every parliamentary group should have proposed either a member or a deputy, for the reason that this exceeds some particular and narrow party interests and the subject is about all of us. Consensus, agreement and compromise are very important liquids of the same EU, and if this committee serves to join the European community, then I think we should consider that. As far as we are from Vojvodina, it's extremely sad that we are constantly trying to articulate the issue of Vojvodina within the institutions and within the system and do it in a democratic way, but when we go to Brussels ourselves after that, then... .
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26521	I'm sorry, Mr Stojsic, but I'm asking the MPs to die. I have to admit, I can't hear a man from the noise. I beg you for a little silence and parliamentaryism, let's hear the man speak. How am I supposed to react to anything when I don't hear it? Go ahead and apologize, at the same time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26522	I welcome the fact that Mr. Andric, whom we highly appreciate, will lead this committee. I think he's gonna do a good job. Just when we were hoping that the opposition would get the opportunity to participate within this committee and that some contribution, and fellow SVM colleagues also got two seats by giving them two seats, which I also welcome, that even if someone from Vojvodina would have their representatives, but I don't think this should be a national or minority issue, although I don't see why someone from Sandzak is also not here, which is why some other minority parties didn't give representatives. When we talk to colleagues in Brussels, I think we should do it as seriously as possible and articulate all the problems that can arise within that accession process. If we keep this up, if the only key is whether the majority in parliament vote or not, I don't think we're going to get far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-06-0.u26523	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Since the lists of MPs are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or who has not yet used their right under Article 98? (No) I am concluding a unique search. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision. Since the National Assembly has completed its discussion on the only item on the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday, 6 November 2013, starting at 13.40 p.m., as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 146 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. The first item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON CONSTRUCTION OF THE PARLAMENTAL COMMITTEE FOR Stabilisation and Association Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority with the majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision establishing the composition of the parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157 against – three abstentions – two, three of the 165 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision on the establishment of a parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee by majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of and decision-making of the session's single agenda, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the fifth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Fourth session is tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 116 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. As it is today a day to request a notice, is one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups willing to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
