ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19228	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the sixth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 97 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 95 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Miljenko Derete, Milan Lapčević, Aleksandar Pejčić, Nebojsa Zelenović, Meho Omerović, Milica Dronjak, Djordje Milicevic, Zoran Kasalovic, Miroljub Stojčić and Mladen Grujic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that the President of the National Assembly has convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, exclusively for Friday, therefore, and beyond those laid down in Article 87(1). As a result of the need for the National Assembly to review the draft agenda act, which was set out in the request of 162 MPs to hold an extraordinary session. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2013, which he called upon the request of 162 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 249 Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you were sent a request to hold the Sixth Extraordinary Session in 2013, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see for the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2013 the next Dn e n i r e d 1 was determined. The proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the condemnation of acts against the civilian Hungarian population in Vojvodina from 1944 to 1945, which was filed by a group of 69 MPs. We're going to work on the agenda. You have received a proposal for a declaration submitted by a group of 69 MPs. I remind you it's consistent with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. You've received a schedule of time per MP's group in the material. I ask the MPs' groups that unless they have already done so, they will immediately file a statement with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 190(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Single Search on the Proposal for a Declaration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the condemnation of acts against the civilian Hungarian population in Vojvodina committed from 1944 to 1945. Does the representative of the promoter, the MP of the people, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, want a word? Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19229	Dear colleagues, we have before us a declaration aimed at correcting historical injustice, freeing from collective responsibility, and condemning acts committed against the Hungarian civilian population in Vojvodina based on a national basis. It is absolutely undeniable that all the crimes that have been committed must be condemned and we owe it to all the victims of all the nations, but here, I say, because there have been such issues, it is not any revision of history, but one act that the National Assembly shows that all those who are innocently convicted, even those against whom there has been no judicial proceedings, wants to fully rehabilitate. I am convinced that the advantage we have in our country, which is reflected in our ethnic and cultural diversity, we must cultivate and that this is something our country should have as its treasure. A well-designed integrated policy designed for foreign, wider integration into global, cultural, economic, political processes towards strengthening and internal cohesion, including a significant place for national and ethnic communities, is a complex and long-term process implemented at regional and national and local level. The success of this policy cannot be certain unless it is based on a realistic understanding of the nature of cultures, identities and if there is no basic agreement on the arrangement of more ethnic communities. In Serbia, a policy based on the adoption of the highest standards for the protection of the rights of national minorities, which have been recommended through multilateral, bilateral and regional documents, which have been created by the Council of Europe, USC, UN, the European Commission and other organisations for the last 15 years. Facing the past and reconciliation among the peoples in this area are an integral part of European integration. Regional co-operation is key to addressing the issues of inherited problems from the past, but also those we face today. Facing the past involves creating an atmosphere in which we can co-operate and address issues such as missing persons in wars, refugee returns, and correcting long-term injustices and historical mistakes. Regional co-operation and reconciliation are difficult tasks, but regional co-operation is the very essence of the EU, so it must be in our country as well. There is a need for problems and unresolved issues from the past to be resolved, so that we can go to the future. When it comes to our relations with neighbouring Hungary, this declaration, I can use the words of President Nikolic during a visit to Budapest, is something close to the historic agreement and that everything that once separated two peoples has now been removed, which others have sometimes used to make life impossible for both Serbs and Hungarians. A concrete benefit from this declaration that can be accepted as an act of reconciliation will also be enjoyed by the Serb minority in Hungary, as the Hungarian minority in Serbia, as the two countries will depend on the degree of economic development and full minority rights in these communities. This declaration shows that we are fully defined for democracy, for development, for respect for human and civil rights and freedoms. As far as the declaration itself is concerned, it strongly condemns all acts against the civilian Hungarian population in Vojvodina committed in 1944 and 1945. At the same time, the National Assembly advocates full rehabilitation of all innocent and innocent victims, without prejudice to the individual liability of those whose guilt has been proven or proved to be before independent courts and in a legally conducted procedure. At the same time, we have spoken with several parliamentary groups and I have also spoken with Mr Balint Pastor, we are ready to accept an amendment condemning the deaths of all other innocent victims during and after World War II in the Vojvodina area, because we believe this is an important addition. I remind you, the Hungarian government has made a decision, even during World War II, to condemn the crimes committed in the New Zealand raid. It is important to point out that there is one general condemnation of all crimes, which have been committed against citizens who have been different nationalities, both against the citizens of the Hungarian national minority and against the Serbs, as well as all others. I think this declaration is a good step towards the beginning of a historic reconciliation and the adoption of certain standards, which this congregation can always use and be proud of. I propose and hope that most MPs of this National Assembly will vote in favour of the proposal for a declaration. We should be aware of what our historical role is at this point, not forgetting that we are here because we are chosen by the people and that in the name of the people we should make all these decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19230	Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) The word has a People's MP, Bojan Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19231	President-in-Office, Mr Stefanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, it is quite obvious that much earlier there was a need for this National Assembly or the Republic of Serbia, as an organised political community, to begin to take views on very important events from its past, especially those marked by doubt or incontestable evidence that they are behind them or in their essence a violation of fundamental rights, primarily a violation of the rights to life and a whole series of other rights, as is the case here. For LDP, it is not a questionable need to discuss such a document, that it is also a matter of the National Assembly and other state bodies trying to eliminate at least part of the injustice or consequences of the injustices committed during World War II and shortly after its end. What is problematic for us, Mr Stefanovic, I address you as a representative of the motion of this declaration, is the style you chose to do this, the way you organized, writing, or making this text of the declaration, and then sending it to the National Assembly. The totally incomprehensible speed at which you scheduled this session. In front of the MPs, the text of this declaration arrived yesterday, along with an act proposing to convene this session. The biggest problem is this bitter taste in the mouth, which stems from the fact that this is done in the evening of the decision to assign a date, or date of the start of negotiations to Serbia. With the impression that this is some kind of gesture towards one of the EU's members, which should give its positive vote to start negotiations on the EU Council, not on the European Commission, as you said wrongly in one of your recent interviews. So the EU member states vote. That's not what you're hiding in this rather short and, I must say, a confusing explanation of the proposal for this declaration. Namely, you say -- it is proposed that this declaration be made by an emergency procedure, so that in the process of Serbia's EU accession, I really don't understand how we need to try to correct a terrible injustice done 70 years ago, it can in such a direct way as the basic reason for adoption, to connect to the process of Serbia's EU accession. You further say – to ensure the necessary element in the process of reconciliation in the region. Now I will not go into small things and warn you that this is a "region" written in a large initial letter, which is incorrect and problematic in itself, as is the issue of that part of your argument where you talk about multilateral, bilateral and regional international contracts, although regional contracts mainly fall into bilateral or multilateral contracts, since there is no third type of international contracts. There are a whole series of problems in organising the very text of this declaration. If we had discussed this longer and more, that other political parties had been given the opportunity to talk about it, that there was a serious public debate on this, that at least we followed the path that follows and on which the two Academys are working – the Academy of Serbia and the Academy of Hungary for a number of years, I think we would get a much more serious text today and that it could be much easier to achieve its purpose. Why is it a problem for me and the LDP to adopt this text in such a hurry? Because the purpose of this declaration is to speak in public, to hear the truth or at least one version of the truth about events that are part of our already distant past, our violent past, which is a burden that has burdened generations not only in this country but in the whole region, that society knows about it and that society is talking about it in society. Of course the best way would be to talk in society in an organized manner before the text of this declaration, but, if it has not already been done, what do you, Mr Stefanovic, expect to be a consequence, social, real, adoption of this text declaration in this way and in this way? This will end with short lines in television news, in one part of our society, so to speak, the right-wing will also be a cause for some new national or nationalist gathering and mutilation, and the effects of reconciliation, the effects of correcting injustice, the effects of moral satisfaction for those who are victims or those who are their successors today, will be completely absent, Mr Stefanovic. That is why I think that this way is absolutely wrong and that it is caused and inspired only by the need to profit from the fact that the President of the Republic will soon speak to his, as Mr. Vukic says – the countryr party, or his Hungarian colleague, and that we should serve here as some kind of predecessor or organizer of that meeting, meeting, ceremony, next week. Of course, it is not a questionable need for the presidents to discuss it, to close down the heavy pages or the heavy chapters of our history. But, of course, you took the liberty of quoting the President of the Republic and I think you quoted the completely wrong views of the president he said, it seems to me, as you said, in Budapest. First, it is not true that this will disappear or all open issues will be closed between our two nations, or our two countries, because this is not the most open question and it is certainly not the only open question. We in the future with Hungary and all other countries and regions and countries with which we will have bilateral or multilateral, not to say regionally, as you say, talks, consultations, accession negotiations, we will have dozens of these issues. It would be good if we didn't close them in this way, that is, if we didn't do it a few days before the country's decision or those countries on one less or more technical issue, what is the start of the EU membership negotiations. A few more words about the text itself, which is why he's a problem. I've been able to see some amendments, I think she filed them, among other things, DS. Some of these, prima facies are acceptable, as a special clarification that by adopting this text declaration or this declaration in no way leads to the revision of history, none of this is controversial, but in this remaining part there are really problematic formulations which, I would say, are the expression of the easily promised speed or ignorance, which is indeed in Serbian they have such meaning that they can produce serious problems in the future. You, Mr. Stefanovic, say, among other things - and support the work and value the results of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences on the identification of civilian victims in Vojvodina during and after the Second World War 1941-1948 - so listen now – with a desire to close the tragic chapter of the common past of Serbs and Hungarians. Such a formulation in Serbian means that you think the common past of Serbs and Hungarians is tragic, that it should be closed and that there should no longer be a common present or future of the Serbian and Hungarian people. Take care when writing such texts, because it can produce very serious consequences. Used to explain some kind of text or reminder, I don't know what to call it, where you were talking about this elaborate, integrated policy, cohesion, etc. There were a lot of big words, but you missed to talk a little bit more about context, Mr. Stefanovic. I have already warned you at one point in my exposure that the only possible value of the debate on this declaration is that our public finds out what happened, under what circumstances it happened, how difficult the years of World War II were, as well as the years that followed it, that the print of one, the second, third and fourth people, as it is commonly said, was strong, that they were very common actions of revenge, rhetoric, call it whatever you want, informally or formally, and that it was all the result of the madness that prevailed in World War II. Then why don't you explain today to the citizens of Serbia what happened in these municipalities, or the cuts in the years to which this declaration applies? I'd like you to do it at this point, to talk about the Frog, to talk about the Titanic Crescent, to talk about Churug, so you'd have a lot more authenticity and credibility, not just you, I'm not talking about you today as an SNS MP, but as the President of Parliament who has the ambition to call this Parliament, to stand together behind this kind of, I agree, a significant proposal. Once again, I urge you to use a few minutes and offer to the public in Serbia, again, at least one version of the truth or events this declaration speaks of and which, rightly I think, you are using very difficult or very sharp formulations. In your explanation, you spoke first of all about people who are unjustly convicted, here is the least of the problems. This is primarily about people, and they didn't actually have, at least not a trial that meets the fundamental principles of legality, I think, as you say here, or the principles of justice. There are other formulations that are problematic. It is not common for our legal documents to use the formulation – proving before an independent court, it is a tradition of Anglo-Saxon law, it does not mean much to us, and on the other hand I open a space for relativisation. I ask you - whether the formulation, whose fault has been proven or proved before an independent court, opens the space to open some of the new procedures in relation to those which are conducted, let's say 1944/45. Or at some age like that? That's a very important question. We talked about it here for days, Mr. Stefanovic, at the end of the last call, when they were on the agenda of the Rehabilitation Act and it seems to me to be the Restitution Act. You weren't a folk MP at the time, but many of those questions were not closed back then. The rules adopted are not clear to the end. And then these laws were passed just before the start of the election campaign, in part because of the need to meet the EU's formal requirements and we got into trouble. If you lean on such an imprecise formulation, then I fear it will not mean much to this additional formulation of the absence of ambition, to end the history that I assume will be adopted on the proposal of one of the political parties, or parliamentary groups in this House. Finally, and perhaps for me and the most important question, Mr Stefanovic, is the question of credibility. Do you think that you and the political party you belong to should actually be monopolies and on relations with the Hungarian community in this country and on relations with the Republic of Hungary and on issues facing a violent past, which is a term that has been commonly used for 20 years, I don't know how familiar it is to you. I don't think that's a good way to go. First, there is something in international relations and international politics called – the use of impaired credibility. In fact, I think that you, as some kind of negotiators, talkers, are ideal for each of the EU countries, when she negotiates with us, because or because, even if I expect to, the threshold of your blackmail, unfair demands will be much higher than those of us who do not need to prove ourselves in this way, to wash our ugly past and to prove that we are and how European we are. I don't blame you for being in that situation. I certainly believe that it is better that today you represent such political views, not those political views that you, or even more strongly, Mr Nikolic, who was also part of this political project, represented 10, 15 or 20 years ago. I'm just saying, for the country, it's not good that you're the only ones doing it. You're expected to make more concessions and that's a realistic expectation. It's not even the first time in the history of international relations that's happened. This makes us look like the last weeks or the last days before getting or not getting a date, which is why it seems to us for the last year in relations with both the EU and the most powerful countries in the international community. You have decided that the bearers of this project will be Tomislav Nikolic, as president of the Republic, a formal person who is not a member of the SNS, but quite clearly the president who has been elected on your proposal as your candidate, and that your political party offers, or proposes such a declaration in parliament, and that you be its formal speaker, or promoter. I don't think that's a good approach and it would be much smarter if you'd defined yourself for some different approach. When I was beginning to say that you get the impression that you're doing this, maybe not just, but first of all under that pressure, of this expectation, that you have to show a tremendous amount of co-operation and a new policy in the last days before the date. I remind you of another situation, Mr. Stefanovic, another example of your campaign way of dealing with politics. I remind you that in the days following the release of the judgment in the Markac-Gotov case you announced and then sent to parliament a proposal for a declaration, or resolution, which was also meant to deal with issues of violent past, crime, murder, mass banishment, for example Serbs, from the territory of Croatia This fama lasted several days. In the meantime, you withdrew that request. There are no more Serbs from Croatia, nor their heavy fates, nor anything like that in what you do. Why, too, do I think you should, or did you have to choose a different way? You, of course, said several times in your explanation that you were judging, or that your political message was that you wanted to condemn all other crimes committed during World War II. I think you need to be more explicit. Your political behavior in the past, the relativization of different parts of our history, the relativization of antifascism, if you will, I think that all today commits you to making very clear what events you mean and what your definitive political position is. One more thing, in these circumstances and in these days it is not possible to isolate the attempts, correct the historical injustices of this kind, just for the period of World War II. Much has happened in these areas since World War II, the most tragic thing, unfortunately, between 1990 and 1999. To me, it simply doesn't seem logical and coherent your policy in which, I believe, because of your desire to correct the injustice, but yet you are limited to just one question, to the issue of crime against Hungarian civilians in 1944-1945, and at the same time, you are still a political party that has not accepted the Srebrenica Declaration, which in a very difficult way behaves when it comes to the assistance of Hague indictees, or convicts who are accused or convicted, which is even worse, for the same or much more drastic things, human rights violations, mass murder, but which is the case with such a declaration. I will no longer insist on any other open questions that exist. I talked to my colleague Stefanovic about it for a little while, so we seem to have come up with some common formulation. This is, about, a declaration between yogurt, those sandwiches offered to Hungarians and new European policies, but somewhere halfway, always between that fear that you are running a new European policy and that perhaps next weekend you will be taking yogurt and buses to Vojvodina and Novi Sad. Just be clear, explain to the end your views and I believe it will not be a problem for this parliament to support such a document. Learn from those mistakes you and many before you, who have tried to monopolize an idea that they are unable to implement or protect in an adequate way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19232	The word has Free Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19233	The Honorable President, we today have an important act, important to the consequences, but by intent and therefore all the seriousness of the Assembly is necessary to at least consider it, if not to prevent its adoption. The fact that one such thing, which wants to review some of the acts of the past, from 1944 and 1945, 70 years ago, is put under emergency procedure and speaks to the agenda from today until tomorrow at least about the bad motives of the promoter. Bad, in some ways dishonest motives, because there is a terrible difference between content and form, content and procedure. If a review of the 1944 and 1945 events is required, then his examination, and then his assessment, etc., based on the declaration, then it is understood that the preparation for such a topic must be much longer and more serious. The introduction of you calling for the work of the Inter-Academic Commission of Serbian and Hungarian Academy of Sciences is not enough. First of all, we don't have the results of that work. You should at least share and read, and then we had to quickly inform ourselves what they were doing and we have very partial answers, answers that question your claims about certain villages, because those answers do not agree with what you say is a crime committed in these and these villages, which was later declared on the basis of collective responsibility. So we don't have any preparation here, and the document is very important, it's full of bad consequences, bad implications, it's bad for external relations and for internal ones. Namely, if you want to agree to a Hungarian state today for some purpose, you will not just do it, be sure, they see on the basis of this as we do and how we adopt in less than 24 hours, that this is an dishonest offer, if it is taken seriously into consideration by the World War II of 1944 and 1945, even later events. Simply, the Hungarian state will also do so to accept for opportunistic state reasons, as any state, which is appropriate to accept, some offer from another country, especially neighbouring countries, especially in things that are historically controversial between us, but you will not convince them of your good intentions for good neighbourly relations on the basis of this. Such things as the events of the distant past, which have been missed over the decades, to be examined and explored, cannot be settled so quickly. This declaration wants to magically show how it's all right. We wrote an act, took a rubber and wiped out the past, apologized, went back to the manner of the previous government, and ended the story. In fact, our relations are both within the country and outside the country very difficult and complicated. If someone imagines this being resolved and solved in a real good neighbourly and friendly way, he must know that it will take time, that there are really investigative actions needed by the commission, as well as audits of court proceedings and processes that have been wrong and which have led to new animosities. So this is about getting a date. I don't know what hasn't been done in this country for the last month for getting a date. I've been talking about Kosovo for months and years, because the previous government has decided to sacrifice Kosovo to get something in the EU, and this government now has less time to do so, so fast steps do what is asked and do not ask. You know, one of these acts has spilled a glass, although I think the glass has been spilled a long time ago, when it comes to defending the state's interests, in terms of European integration. It's not about European integration at all, it's not about them. It's about some thing that no one lives can explain in this country what it means, and no one in Brussels will be able to explain what that date means. They'll tell you formally, is that, that means, approval of the start of accession negotiations. When it starts, how long will it take, what are the positive consequences for the state, no one will be able to explain it except false promises like investments, etc. Remember, when we complained about candidacy, the country's main propaganda was when we got candidate status, investments would rush into Serbia. It'll be the same with the date. For that reason, something so foggy, nothing at all, we are now making this declaration as a Assembly, as a state body, declaring ourselves to be one thing where we have no right to plead without previous actions, that's what you're forcing us to do. There's a historical object here, a couple of excellants, one injustice whose elements and dimensions are not clear to people. You have on the ground in Vojvodina memories of it and it is now a second or third generation of people. The first generation is probably not even alive, which has vivid memories. These memories between one and the other are completely indistinguishable in antinomies, which is already one indication that you can't quickly solve this problem by using a machine, magically solving it, especially with a declaration. What does that really mean? You see, when it comes to the European context, I will give an example, but after a small and short analysis of two or three minutes of this historic context where it came in 1944 and 1945. We all know, as much as we do not deal with history, that Baka was under Hungarian occupation, Hungary was then a fascist state, the signatories of the Troika Pact and the great federal Hitler and Mussolini, just as Banat was under German occupation and there were major crimes committed. We all know that, and after that came the time of vengeance. It's something very difficult, although the previous state, the communist state still had time, because there were documents and memories to explore things and to explore them in some revised process on that individual basis and to take that step towards reconciliation. That's all we have left now. We'll do it even harder. Ask yourself if a similar case in Romania or Slovakia, apropo Hungary, was during these European integrations. They had a common interest. They were in a joint basket to join the EU. Romania has not allowed any Hungarian investment towards the Hungarian minority in Romania, and Slovakia has even more strongly rejected it. Another case I take as a case for European politicians to solve the matter, the Lisbon Treaty came into force on December 1st 2009. The last to keep the Treaty in force, very important for the functioning of the European Union, was Vassel Klaus, president of the Czech Republic. And after those Irish referendums and the various blackmails of Poland and the Czech Republic around the Charter of Fundamental Rights and the demands of Ireland on abortions and many things that have been delayed in the term of the treaty, Klaus made the last move. He did not sign the already ratified Lisbon Treaty, which was ratified by the Czech Parliament. He did not sign it for several months, waiting for all these previous actions and obstacles to be completed, and then he set up his own condition, which is the EU guarantee, apropo-judicial problem, that the German state and the Sudanese Germans will no longer look back on the problem and that the matter will actually be removed from the Czech Republic and Germany's relations with the future Europe. A special protocol has been made for such a request and Klaus has solved the problem of the Sudetic Germans. We can talk as much as we want, analyze the injustice that was done to them, at least at the level of property rights, but that's similar to Buck and Banat. There, the Germans on the territory of the Czech Republic were allies, the domicile population of those fascist regimes that had defiled there, and the matter ended with violence, banishment, confiscation of property and finally one EU protocol under the Lisbon Treaty. This is the behaviour of European politicians taking care of both their country and the future European perspective of neighbouring peoples. So, the thing is done historically. What are we doing? We're doing the exact opposite thing. For one act, which in some perspective is vague and completely insecure, we return this whole anxiety complex to the ground. It may be a suppression of the functioning of the government or the silence of the media or various repressive and semi-repressive measures, but it will remain and that is not the way. That's what we're talking about. The second bad coincidence of what you had to think about just because things are historical, so I look back at history, is the possible effect of precedent of what is the content of today's declaration. I mentioned Banat and Germany. The case was even more drastic than in the Hungarian case in Buck. So there was violence. People were terrorized under collective responsibility and everything that today's legal systems don't approve of. There was mass exorcism in Banat. The German minority was the largest national minority in the former Yugoslavia. They're expelled and it's actually one historical fact. They have their own associations, as well as the Sudetic Germans have associations all over Germany, heirs to the second, third, fourth generation, who are looking to at least return the property and who are working with their country, the German government, on that thing. Look, this thing is even more serious. The Hungarian population at least lives in the area of Backa and thank God for living after World War II. It was reduced based on the functioning of the communist government after World War II, but in the vast majority it survived and lived its life and shared the fate of other people in this country. The German population has been expelled. It can, based on this president and those associations of its own, seek the same thing with full rights. Again, someone has been repressing over more than 300-400 thousand people, who have been expelled as much as possible. Take care of the consequences of such a single step. This step can be a precedent, and that convention will be far worse, and that's why I'm saying take care of what you're doing, because this isn't going to come out well. There has been a fashion of apology and declaration and resolution in our country since five years ago that is supposed to correct these false drinas from the past and further. So, the past government introduced this one style to please the neighbours and Brussels and various countries that are burning and burning across the EU, and then we also had that Srebrenica Declaration, which was passed, however, in a way that had procedurally met the minimum conditions. So we had time to read it. There was a public debate on the matter. It has already been written abroad and in the country about what actually happened in Srebrenica. The facts, etc., have been brought forward extensively. We had, so to speak, some verbal clash here and the controversy in the assembly and it was voted the way it was voted. The resolution has passed, but it is an introduction to these partial documents of the Assembly, as is this partial. The main cause of the DSS was not condemnation of crime, but condemnation of crimes against Muslims because crimes were everywhere. We also have violent acts and crimes against one nation, according to representatives of the Hungarian people in one situation where many other nations lived, under the same regime fascist and under the same regime communist. So, both of them committed violence, even though they can't compare, that's what I have to say. At least this was some kind of rematch, not the initial chapel for that chain of violence. So, as we left a few years ago, so we continue with the Hungarians. Maybe tomorrow we'll go with the Germans, the day after tomorrow with the Vlassa. You remember that winning the candidacy was at the end of an attempt by Romanian President Basescu to raise a wet issue in Eastern Serbia. You can see how sensitive this process is and how much he can seduce and lead various secret agendas of the state to benefit from the weakness of a country that is ready for some hazy future to sacrifice everything else in that country, starts from territory, to respect itself, etc. That's exactly the key word I want to finish this exhibit of mine. We have this declaration of self - humiliation that has been turning for years in public opinion, and then in various groups of so-called groups. Serbia's elites, to finally come to a political class, which internalised that one sense of self-indulgence and self-refoulement as a state and as a national identity. So we've come all this way to do everything we're asked to do without differentiation, without distinction. We don't care. Do whatever you want, just give us the date. Give us the date, please. Take what you want and you'll have what you want. That's what needs to be stopped. It has to stop because it's the relativization of the world. There is no relativization of the state and the people and its history and its present and its future, and it begins with this relativization of fascism during the Second World War in Vojvodina, especially in Bačka and Banat, and also in Srem, of course, because it was also under a certain fascist occupation. By relativising fascism, then by relativising communist terror after World War II, which is also a topic for reviewing, but not as partial as this, we will now question how the Hungarians went, and the Romanians, so perhaps Serbs will come at some point on the agenda, you know what was done in Belgrade in 1944 and 1945, and then we will get to that last point of self-indulgence, which we attend from day to day. Our state leadership is courting Western politicians in the most shameful way. So it can't be watched on TV anymore. I'm speaking my personal impression, and I have a lot of people with whom I've exchanged such an impression and who really believe that political activity and a political call have never fallen on such a low branch. That's why I'm talking about this declaration as one act in such a series of movements and behaviours of this country and its presidents, and it can't end well. If you want European integration, try to do it, but at least put your back up a little bit and raise your head, they'll appreciate you more. It's our experience. Otherwise, the matter has been delayed for 10, 15 years at least when it comes to Brussels, so that we have time to reconsider ourselves and our strategy and our relationship with the EU, and then our relationship with the neighbours. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19234	Thank you. Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19235	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that some of the members of this house want to pretend that there's something here that doesn't say. It's their right. But the document is very clear and it says everything we wanted to say here. I will read to you the first position of a declaration saying that – the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia strongly condemns acts against the civilian Hungarian population of Vojvodina, committed in 1944 to 1945, which are designated persons for national reasons deprived of life, freedom, or other rights without judicial or administrative decision. Is there anyone in this room who might be against this? Is there anyone who advocates that you can go beyond killing people and not have a court verdict, shut down and take away their property, whoever they are? But we in other members talk about other people who were doing the same thing, and I don't see what's the reason we're going into one, it seems like a conflict over something that's completely normal. At the same time, there were some who may not have understood it very well. We are also talking about those who are deprived of these rights without trial but also those who have been given some decisions based on nationality. We are absolutely against anyone being convicted, persecuted or anything to appear to him because he belongs to a national group or to a nation. The court must exist and condemn those who are guilty. Those who have suffered only because they belonged to a nation must condemn this people’s congregation. I can't allow it, and I can't keep my mouth shut when it's said -- relativizing fascism. My grandfather fought in the Partisans, in 1945 he participated in the fighting on the Sremski front and was awarded a medal for courage. My family fought hard for it, and this isn't about relativizing fascism. I want to let someone worship me. There's no such thing here. We strongly condemned it always, and Serbia does it every moment, and this government and this majority, every fascism, fascism that became in 1939 until 1945, but all that was done on behalf of others, and can be subjected to fascism. Killing innocent people because they belonged to one nation is the same fascism, no matter what ideological sign those who did it were wearing. This isn't about a conflict between two peoples. The Serbian people are not the one who wants to commit crimes, nor is it genocide or anything like that. This is about the actions of certain people, not getting into what these people were and what nationalities they belonged to, who were then different levels of government and who made those judgments and did such acts without judgment. I think that's the essence of this declaration. I'll try not to answer until the end, but for this I was forced to react.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19236	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19237	If it's about correcting the things that have been done in the past, it can only be done by the court. Then you have to revise these court proceedings that, based on the category of collective responsibility, have accused and committed violence against the population. Every name must be seen, said, and that's how you can do it. If you're doing it then you have to do it at the level of the whole country in 1944 and 1945. So such acts of injustice and injustice and the functioning of the new regime were against everyone. You also have to look at what happened between 1941 and 1944 when fascist regimes ruled the area, three fascist regimes. They must collect the names of the victims and then examine each of these individual cases. I'm sure no one can do that. This is just an abstract assumption, but why are we making this one "anblock", a simple move where everyone rehabilitates who is condemned by the principle of collective responsibility? It could happen, based on that rehabilitation, that someone might pass on who was really a criminal. Why? Because you don't go the individual way. It's wrong from the point of view of reviewing history through a trial. We're talking about this stuff too seriously. Your intention is to open up a new website of good neighbourly relations and now you're taking a quick step that can't be taken just like that. (President: Time. ( ) As for the revitalization of fascism, note that in the event of a conflict, this may be the case. In some ways, there may be amnesty of certain acts of the Court regime in Buck, where the population is mostly...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19238	Thank you, Mr. Samardzic. Anyone else want a word? The word has been made by the People's MP, Karol Chizik.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19239	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen, has been a long time, many years since 1944 until today. A lot has happened, even people who have never moved from their hometown have changed many countries. Many waited for this day, but they couldn't wait for it because it took a very long time. They left, didn't have an apology day, a rehab day, a release from collective guilt hanging over my head like Domacul's sword. The question arises whether anyone has the right in their name to forgive those acts and misdemeanors that were neither guilty nor obliged to suffer, but only those who seek it can be forgiven. We from LSV welcome this initiative and would very much like to participate in its creation, but we were not asked by those who prepared it. We would also like to contribute to calling this session to our signatures, that someone has informed us. Now, without us, the text of the declaration itself has become poorer. We could have made this document more precise and accurate, because it was our parents who experienced these horrors in one way or another after World War II. Regardless of these circumstances, we believe that the text itself was made with the best intention. We should commend this government for having the courage to take this move, to make a bold decision that was missing all these years, from the time of Titus to the previous government, where everyone ignored reality, had no courage to face their own history and were in conflict with themselves. It is a courageous and difficult step that will certainly contribute to bringing the Serbian people from all places closer to European values and into the European blood stream. This is undoubtedly the most significant step in recognising the reality and breaking up with the virtual policy that we have led so far. We lived on a loan with sick ideology or without it. We have treated dissatisfaction with wars to become the poorest country of these places to this day. That wrong ideology makes us ignore the Lustration Act. It's been 10 years since the law was passed that hasn't entered into force to this day. We are the only post-Communist country in Europe that has not implemented the lustration. I think it takes courage, too, but there's no progress without it. It would be a shame to waste so much time. It should be clear to all of us that without lustration we cannot enter the EU. With those who have robbed, beaten, killed, emigrated or hogged at all, they will not let us into the family of European countries. After so many victims, we must not stop at one step from our goal. I know the text of the declaration can't be long. However, I must point out some major shortcomings. If someone doesn't know history enough, by reading this document I'd think the misdemeanors were committed only in three villages – Curugu, Frogs and Moshorina. Of course, that would be a lot, but it's a long way from the truth. I think it's too much to sort out the names of other places where they've done it in a similar way, for example. Vienna, Ada, Senta, Kanjiža, Martonosh, Subotica, etc. It's easier to list those few places where it wasn't done thanks to the presence of members of the Red Army who were determined against all sorts of shootings and were physically driven by firing squads. Also, I find it a great lack of declaration that it is limited only to the victims of Hungarian nationality. We of LSV advocate the rights of all the citizens of Vojvodina and their equality in every respect. We have no right to forget the innocent victims of other peoples, above all the Germans. The duchy Serbs, who were trying to save their neighbours, also suffered. There is no known number of robbed and exiled German families, who were transported without anything in cattle wagons, or how many were shot. I think it's discrimination when we talk about the Hungarians, and we forget all the other innocent victims, like nothing happened. It is well explained that by accepting this declaration, we hope to bring the EU closer. Why was it difficult to spread the declaration to other nations? We heard that before this session on the Committee, an amendment dealing with this topic was accepted, but then the question arises whether the title, or the name of that declaration should be changed? Finally, I still have a few more important facts to add, in 2003, the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina adopted a resolution on the lack of collective guilt when the Assembly was chaired by Nenad Canak. It's a shame the AP Vojvodina Assembly doesn't have legislative authority, because in that case it would have been settled 10 years ago. There's still a lot to do with science. Historical research should be intensified, to the greatest extent possible and with greater certainty to establish historical facts, the suffering of all peoples after the end of World War II. To make it clear to everyone that the anti-fascist struggle is the historical fluid of our society and we don't dispute it. We from LSV are ready, despite these shortcomings, to support this declaration in the hope that we will thus improve our society and be one step closer to the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19240	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Diana Vukomanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19241	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I address you on behalf of the SPS who is proud of the heritage of the property of the folk-free and anti-fascist struggles. I am also speaking to you on behalf of the party that makes up the ruling coalition and which is determined to join Europe with our coalition partners and, as I say, to share a culture of peace and reconciliation within that Europe in the 21st century. We are today discussing the text of a declaration which has located that here in our country in the country of our citizens whose crime has taken place, which determined where this crime took place. Cirug municipality, the Zabaljska municipality in Vojvodina, is mentioned, but also, most importantly, the crime was committed against the innocent members of the Hungarian national community. My esteemed colleagues, who, like me, share this intellectual education and who, I'm sure, share the humanistic values in which we have grown and are educated, have expressed many fences and many doubts – and what if this National Assembly adopts the text of the declaration in this way. I hope and express my confidence on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group that this will be a significant step forward in the culture of peace, in guaranteeing the rule of law in the Republic of Serbia and in strengthening the principles of justice and the rule of law. We have, looking, because we are not lonely in this Europe and in these areas, many examples from the recent or later past of how many peoples who have been conflicted in history have had a much larger ceremony and much larger and more significant declaration of reconciliation, starting with the Germans, have done so by establishing a European community, both the French and the Germans and the English. Later on, we can see it also on the Peace Parade that the Germans and the Russians are doing, when German Chancellor Merkel stands on "The Parade of the Winners of the Antifascist Fight of the Russian People" and when they defil soldiers of the Russian Army. This happened recently in Berlin, when President Obama and Chancellor Merkel addressed the citizens of Berlin, when President Obama, evoking Kennedy's 1963 speech, said he was a Berliner, a citizen of Berlin, but also a citizen of the world. I really want to believe that in this National Assembly, MPs and MPs, we really should be proud of this multiethnic and multicultural composition of our congregation. I am pleased that there are distinguished colleagues and colleagues in our ranks not only of the Hungarian national community, but also of other non-Serbian communities, so to speak, or minority communities. It's our advantage, and it can't possibly be a flaw. The text of this declaration reflects exactly that identity and the fact that citizens are members of Hungary and some other nationalities are loyal citizens of this country. We can't, as some respected colleagues from other MPs' clubs are appealed to, to measure the amount of reconciliation and the amount of apology for something bad has happened. You will allow me to quote in this context and in support of the text of this declaration the words of a wise man who said that man cannot choose the time in which he will be born and live. It is not up to him to any parent or nation to be born, but it depends on him how he will act in due time, whether as a man or as an inhuman, regardless of which people or parents. This may be a quote that is not so memorable, but if I quote his next sentence, which was short and effective – let's be human, you will remember that Patriarch Paul said. So, by supporting the wording of this declaration, we are just confirming that we are humans, that we are against inhuman acts, against crimes committed against innocent people. We therefore consider this not only an apology to one nation or members of a national community, but also an apology to our entire people, because I am convinced that Serbs are mostly peaceful, justifiable, free people, at least that's what we are talking about ourselves and we need to prove it by these acts, as will be the support of this addressed declaration. Some respected colleagues have expressed concern about the political consequences of such a committed declaration, measuring perhaps some words that are not for measuring, because as I have already said, you cannot control the amount of apology and cannot say that some crime is much smaller or some much greater than others just because it has been killed, suffered, deprived of lawlessness as many or as many people. It is in the preamble of the declaration that inter-academic groups have been formed and that historians who have been educated and who know much more about it than we are involved in determining the facts. So, just as a crime never goes out of date, it doesn't have to and can't go out of date with an apology. We are together in one big job and we share all the same political fate as the citizens of this country, we stand in the same way as the members of the Serb people that we are deprived of responsibility collectively for something committed by individuals, and it is precisely the text of this declaration on what we stand for for the members of our people. Therefore, I appeal that we do not weigh every word and fear the consequence of something that really does not have a single disputed sentence that could lead to a new injustice. This is the wording of the declaration that we insist on several principles, that human life is incomparable, that human freedom is intact. These are all the sentences that are written in our Constitution and in order to maintain peace in these places of ours we must always insist on justice and therefore the text of this declaration speaks of the review of decisions made by the then Commission for the Determination of Crimes, occupiers and their helpers in Vojvodina. Of course we don't revise history here with this text. In our newer history than World War I, and since World War II, there are many whites that are afraid of different colors, from black to ideological colors. We are not interpreters of truth or error or mistakes or crimes based on the belonging of our political party. We're equal. We are equal in that we are citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that in the 21st century this right and that freedom should be given and guaranteed in this way by always remembering innocent victims and declaring that we will not allow such crimes and such mistakes to be repeated. I'd paraphrasise a sentence that says that the state is not a set of citizens. The state is an eternal community between those who once lived, who are no longer among us, between those who are now living and those who will be born. The text of this declaration is aimed at both the past and the present, but also the future. I don't think these apology rituals that we're involved in as politicians can do any harm, that they're non-contaminating political space and political dictionary and that they won't do anyone any harm. Of course they can always be seen not only in serious historical books but also in tabloids, in the daily press attempts less or larger, sometimes inadmissible revisions of history, but also in the same way as when we are alertly reacting when we are an object, members of the Serb people the object of trying to review history, I think we should also give support to a job where serious historians are engaged, as in the case of academics from our country and Hungary. We're also in business together as politicians. Why it is disputed that this declaration is in the light of Serbia's approximation and integration into the EU and, of course, that this declaration comes in honor of the upcoming visit of Hungarian President Janos Ader, which is not disputed. Why not in this way wish a member of a great European people a welcome? I think only peace policy can present Serbia in one light. If you follow public opinion studies, not those conducted only in Serbia, you will see that Serbia's rating has been bad in the last 20 or 30 years. You will also see that Serbia's ratings have improved rapidly and that this will make a improvement for all citizens regardless of what people they belong to and which national community or national minority or which political party they belong to. Europe is multicultural. We live in a global community. We don't want to be released and what the more developed nations have done before us for decades, but since World War I or World War II and back here, I think we as responsible politicians should do. In this sense, the SPS expresses its support for this declaration and thinks it contributes to a culture of peace and reconciliation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19242	Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? National MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19243	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia about the condemnation of acts against the civilian Hungarian population in Vojvodina from 1944 to 1945 found us quite surprised yesterday at the very speed that many said to put on the agenda such an ad hoc, to disagree on this matter some views and the first thing we found as Parliament clubs when we sat down to bring a position on it and to talk about it we said that we did not have enough information as to why at this speed such an act on an event that was 70 years behind us. But, as a responsible parliamentary group, the responsible political party, above all with a national omen, we felt that we needed to state our position, which we had been pleading about for a long time yesterday, took into account all the facts because we were seen by citizens of the Republic of Serbia and expected to see our political views. No matter how much this declaration has weight or no weight, some say, it still legitimateizes us on some important political issues that we declare. First of all, we condemn every war and what's little is even tragic when we say innocent victims. Victims are victims. Are there those who deserve to be victims? No, they're all innocent, everyone who's at war they're victims. It's the scariest consequence of war. I will refer to Michiz, who, in his day, spoke of the horrors of World War II, spoke of her mother and said that she had a hard time waging war and feeding children and saving their lives by sacrificing herself boundlessly. He said she was just one of the armies of those nameless men who would never get a monument and had to bring out a great sacrifice in the war. Unfortunately, monuments only rise to those who start wars, and never to those who have to bring them out. I am a Serbian woman from Somboro, a town in the north of Vojvodina, a city in northern Serbia, a city that is in Bačka and a city in which this topic is well known. In addition, I am a descendant of direct Thessaloniki volunteers, king's volunteers from World War I who were ready to defend Yugoslavia, defend Serbia in World War I, and many have not returned back in return, appreciating their courage and heroism and selfless patriotism, the king settled them together with families at the border of Serbia to Hungary. I'm from the village of Rastin. It is the same animal that, precisely because of this political commitment and this political attitude at that time in World War II was interned along with all the families in the Hungarian camp Chargo. We have lived in those places for centuries, finding solutions in the most difficult situations. And survived. It wasn't easy, but wars came and tried us again in terrible ways. Not only am I talking about what we've been through, what we've been through there, these are the places that have always been dreary when it comes to the war situation, the war storm or other political ambitions and, of course, always with a large number of victims. I mention that the event and those victims in 1944-1945 were preceded by a lot of things and that the management of this frustration of people was in a difficult way at one point. It takes a long time, and we all know it. We know how hard Churug lived with that truth. This is one moment of trying to overcome this painful period and the painful truth of history, or as we say it modernly – amortizes. In the name of the Hungarians who have lived here for centuries, I will mention many wonderful examples from their history and one man whom I have not heard of being mentioned here, this is Pal Teleki, the Hungarian prime minister who committed suicide by not agreeing with such a policy, and he was right-handed and anti-Semite, Count Pal Teleki. What I resent, here I am now telling my fellow Members of the Hungarian national minority, in Belgrade, in Borca, there is the street of Pal Telekia, and no city in Vojvodina has given his name to any street. This I urge the municipalities of Vojvodina, at least those where there is a significant number of the Hungarian National Corps, to correct this historic mistake. On the contrary, there is an example of Andrew Bajchi Zilinski, an MP. There's a lot of streets with his name on it, though. It's an extraordinary man who didn't commit suicide, but was killed for telling the truth about the raid. So, in the name of history and truth, I will read, just to reduce passion and see that great people and great visionaries, great humanists and kindness were on all sides and villains on all sides, to remind what was good in humans, one part of the letter of Pal Teleki, which he sent to Admiral Horti. "Excellent Excellency, we have broken the word of cowardice, which is contrary to the treaty of eternal friendship based on your speech in Mohač. The nation feels it, and we reject our honesty. We have sided with the villains, for there is not a word of truth out of the horrors of God. I can't go back. I'm guilty. Pal Teleki. "A broken word was paid with a life of style that a large part of the nation understood, and hopefully a large part of humanity, as an act of chivalry. It was also a hint of a great tragedy that would come upon the Hungarian people. So what happened after the war, and in the war, according to Miljenko Smoj, "no one becomes a beast," I'll quote him, "but war only helps him show that it always does." So in war, the worst human passions are shown, the worst human complexes, the lowest forms of human wickedness are given the opportunity to manifest themselves. The hardest is creation, the hardest is creation. It's easy to tear down, it's hard to build. It is difficult to build anything – kindness, love, respect, co-operation, dialogue, tolerance. These are all positive values and require much more energy, much more, allow, and brains, seek great sacrifices. In light of all this, I had a need to talk about these parts of history, these historical truths, to say that there were many victims and that we couldn't forget the raid victims, where nearly 13,000 people were killed. Again, I won't say innocent victims. It is our pain, our suffering, our sorrow, such as our pain together and these victims of Hungarian life in 1944-1945. There's nothing to justify. No one has the right to take a human life. As an Orthodox believer, I know that our life is from God, and we need to keep it and live with dignity. The church is in each of us. Mercy is a great virtue we've learned our whole lives. What we can attack or not attack in the proposal, we can criticise or not criticise, the text itself, one way or another, is the intention. I really expect us to move forward with a similar initiative towards the Hungarian Parliament, we MPs, and to have support in that, when it comes to our victims, all victims get at least there, all the victims, on all sides, a kind of satisfaction and some late historical remorse, regrets, compassion, empathy. The theme is both difficult and painful for us in Vojvodina, but we learned in Vojvodina, my colleagues know it, that we live with each other and that we live side by side. I'll bring up an example I know from life. So, when the raids took place, there were many German villages around Somboro, Gakovo village, where there is no German today. All, as my old Bacans have said, the Gackos of the Krauts shut themselves in their houses and spent all day praying for the souls of those victims. So much for humanity, for people everywhere. I think that's an example I should mention. They were then expelled from there, after World War II. The war in its folly is very little respect for life and never a man's life is cheaper than when the war starts and never more than better and faster are rich hohstapplers, but in war. We who have in our recent history such war events, we have seen it, we have witnessed it, on behalf of it I hope that one such declaration will again call upon the same one for the Serbian victims, to support it. We have a right, we have a duty to be responsible and human, to be merciful. As a Serb from Serbia, as a Serb from the north of Vojvodina, from northern Serbia, from Somboro, above all, I will address the Hungarian people in poor Hungary with one sentence. Forgive me for the accent. The MP speaks Hungarian. So, dear friends, the wars are over, let's try to heal the wounds together in the name of a future. That would be a real solution, because we have to live here. No one's gonna take their piece of land and take it anywhere. Best and best when we can have dialogue and co-operation. That's what we have to do and that's what makes history and the future bound us to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19244	The word has a folk MP, Dr Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19245	Dear Vice President, Mrs. Golden's emotional statement motivated me to take my word for it. I come from Vojvodina and I have to tell you that from yesterday to this day I had a very difficult night, thinking about what to say, whether I should say anything at all, but that speech and the speeches of some MPs gave me motive to say a few words. Indeed, it is very difficult for the Serbs of Vojvodina to open this topic, very difficult. We all have the vivid memories of the raid that was in Novi Sad in 1942. When I was a kid, I grew up, I was raised, I went to meetings, and I know what was in my head about all these events. I know that war is evil, a great evil which unfortunately in this Balkans is often repeated. The Balkans is otherwise full of history, unfortunately negative history where we only talk about victims, crimes and where it is repeated over and over again. That's why I think this generation has to do more, it has to do this infamous history in this part to overcome it, to take a new path, through reconciliation, through living together, and by showing the right face of the Serbian people. In the 1990s, I was alone in one area where I felt what collective guilt meant, just because I speak this language that I speak, just because I belong to a certain people. I think we need to get past it to live in the future, so that our kids don't have anything that's happened in the past. I also found it very difficult to read and prepare for this exhibition, remembering both Novi Sad and Curug and Nadj and Šikaša and Djurdjeva and Vienna, the cold Danube and everything that happened in 1942. But we have to move on. I must say, there is no collective guilt, there is no collective guilt of any people, it was Serbian, it was in these areas of Vojvodina's German people, the Hungarian people. There's no collective guilt. We need to have individual guilt and that those people who committed those crimes really are responding. As a member of the left party, the left orientation, as a member of a party that has the heritage of an anti-fascist struggle, I must stress that we will never agree to a revision of history. It must be known who fought in the war, who fought for freedom and who was an associate of the occupiers. We cannot look for justifiable circumstances for some who were servants of the occupiers who worked for them and eventually, at the very end of the season, a common people who suffered from these occupiers suffered. It's precisely because we inherit anti-fascism and I have to say that Serbia gives it up, I don't know why. All the normal European countries and how proud they are of their anti-fascist struggle. We in Serbia are somehow trying to relativize it, put it in another plan, as if freedom had come from itself, and not that it was fought by generations of young people who were at war. As a child of someone who was at war, who was a partisan, I have to say it here, no matter how emotional it is, and that's why I belong to a left-wing party. What we also need to know is that many want the crimes to be forgotten. If crimes are forgotten, they will repeat themselves. We need to know that it's been a troubled time, and there's a lot of things that are bad, that don't lead forward. Therefore, I would not want this declaration that can only be a simple paper, unless it contains the consciousness of all the peoples who live in Serbia, in their country, that it must change the way they behave, the thinking, that we must look into the future, and that our future means living together, that our past is somehow put into some plan, to clarify what happened. We can forgive, but we can't forget some things. We must not forget because it will happen again and therefore the SDPS will give support to this declaration with full respect and any changes that are within the framework of the amendment, and personally, I must personally confess to you, I will refrain from voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19246	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, I have information that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives will hold a session today at 2.30 p.m. in Hall I, in the House of the National Assembly building. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, come forward for a word? National MP Borislav Stefanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19247	Dear fellow Members of the People, there is a declaration before us that causes very mixed emotions. This could be heard from previous exhibitions, a declaration that is due to a series of both political and historical factors and one declaration that also has shortcomings in it, which is not ideal. I must say that, before I go to discuss the essence of all this, the DS has submitted two amendments and we are very pleased that one amendment was adopted, which is an amendment condemning crimes against all other peoples, which took place on the territory of the AP Vojvodina between 1941 and 1945. Why have we submitted this amendment and why do I think we should all be pleased that it was adopted? Because this is what we wanted to reduce the need for a crime, however disgusting, to be, to be placed exclusively under the prism of an exclusive right to this crime. Every crime has to get its own conviction, every criminal should have a name and name, every criminal should not be a Serb or Hungarian, but a criminal. We have to do it as much as we can. I am proud to be from the DS, which has started these processes in Serbia, through great difficulties, also dealing with the crimes of our recent past, not just those of 60 years ago. It takes courage. We expect our colleagues from the ruling majority to enter the field with us, which they did not want to go to before. Our second amendment, as I understand it, is not adopted, although we would like it to be adopted and I appeal to Members to be adopted, which is an amendment that is sought and inserted with a clear attitude against the revision of history. I think everyone knows what I'm talking about. With this amendment, we're saving the essence of this declaration, so that it doesn't go in a direction that no one would want, which is the direction of the history review. No party should, at least DS, be involved in the revision of history. We don't have that right. We're not academics. We're historians. There's no declaration that some lines can erase both civil and valuable. We have to take care through this declaration, not only to stamp a crime, individual in this case, but never to delete those lines, and I'm going to talk about it today. What is absolutely necessary to say in a procedural sense, I think it's a bad thing that we got this text so quickly. I think it's bad that we've heard the water explains that this is being brought to the honor of the arrival of the president of Hungary, that's very bad. I think it's bad that the timing is like this chosen in a hurry and allows it to connect to the question of getting a date. I think it's a bad thing to lift things, which is our internal thing, to the level of people's and bilateral relations. It's always, dear friends, something that leads the state of Serbia into a difficult situation. Imagine the scene, if we enter a space where we get new recommendations for new declarations, that no government should do, that no government should be governed by foreign policy. I'm just expressing my desire not to let that happen to us, and that's very possible. I don't want to, and this isn't a party issue, so tomorrow we get similar demands for both the Vlahes and the Romanians and the Germans, because if we go that way, these lines that I'm going to talk about will disappear. We, as a people, will not know who we are, or what we are, who we were on, for whom we fought. We'll become a people who have to say that nothing from his past is right, and there won't be anything wrong. What is certain is that in this declaration, unfortunately, there is no condemnation of fascism. There is no clear attitude against the revision of history in this declaration. If we don't have that attitude, it's normal that many MPs, we've heard, from various parties that are from the territory of Vojvodina, have the fear of this going in some direction. The Democratic Party will make its contribution as it has always been, to condemn every crime, including this crime to be condemned. We simply can't let the line in which we say -- all crimes are for conviction, and then when it comes concrete, then we say -- well, this is awkward for us. Since the crime was committed against the Hungarians in Vojvodina, that crime must be condemned and the one who committed it is the criminal. We have to be brave and say it, and if we say it, we have the right to expect others to say it for other victims. It's a civilization thing. I'd like to see the Hungarian Parliament do something like that. I'd like that. I'd like to see other parliaments in the region who can find the strength to say that. I'd like the Bosnian parliament to say about Srebrenica, if not Srebrenica, then the Kravica. I'd like that as a man. Whether it will come to this, it is already a matter of our foreign policy and its expertise. It's already a matter of our commitment, and our commitment is undoubtedly European, anti-fascist, with the full condemnation of every crime, including this one. You know what happened, dear friends? Someone has decided to take revenge as a principle of politics, someone has decided that because Hungary has to pay, because some criminal who was Hungarian has done this to the Churucans, to the Titicans, to the Novosadians, and it's inadmissible. We will not be pure men and pure cheeks, we will not be earth and people with a future, if we don't share it, and if we don't say, because he killed Serbs and threw them under ice was fascist, so let him be with Horti in the regime, and not with Salash. There is no difference for us in Serbia and that line will remain and that should be understood. I understand the feelings of the Hungarian people, but Horti's regime was not favored by the Serbian and Jewish populations in Vojvodina. On the contrary, I know that in Hungary it is spoken of as Horti as a man who was right-handed and was not a fascist. We believe that he was a fascist and that his regime committed a crime in Vojvodina, as we believe that this crime in the Frog and all that SVM colleagues wrote stands and must be condemned. The Democratic Party is behind it. We take care, gentlemen, at one point, we have to tell all the truth, because we didn't get that commission's report to see what really happened there. This hasn't gone through the boards, nobody's had a chance to discuss this properly, it's technical, not political disadvantages. I don't want to see them as political disadvantages, but the fact is that people from the ruling majority, at least try to avoid it, say this is in honor of the arrival of a president. Dear gentlemen, this is Serbia's internal issue. Hungarians are our fellow citizens and citizens of this country and this is not a question of international relations. The one who lightly agrees, and I'm afraid that some elements of this government, probably out of intricacies, agree to it, are a huge bear service to this country and we have to make that clear. I want to say a few more things, there are specific crimes being talked about here, crimes committed against an innocent population without a conviction, even without an administrative decision, and anyone normal, anyone who holds to a civilization level, has to condemn this. I appeal to the MPs to support such an attitude and to condemn the crime. The crime against Hungarians in Vojvodina, which took place in 1944 and 1945, by people who have become criminals, but these people should not bear the classification, because Serbs have committed crimes, as we ask for Hungarians, too. These people don't have to wear a classification, the partisans committed a crime, wanting to hide the responsibility of the Serbs, we run into the responsibility of anti-fascists, and that's inadmissible. These moves were and they are for every conviction. It's a line between us and them. Tomorrow, will someone say that all Germans were criminals? Many did, but there was a Partisan squad called the Emsteleman, where they were all Germans and they all went to the hardest trenches and the hardest bunkers and almost everyone died in the Partisan ranks. Will someone say that Fascist and Servo Mihalj and Pope Paul and Costa Nadj? These are the people who fought Fascism and brought freedom. Is General Lukavina responsible for these things that have been happening, so it probably is. Is there a military administration in Backo and Banat? Yes, it is. Did that stop a lot of revenge? Yes, and that's true. Had it not been for the military administration, the Serbs from Curuga would have taken matters into their own hands or elsewhere, not to mention the Banatian Krauts and the folks. I'm saying this today, not only as a member of the DS, proud of our valuable civilization attitude against every crime, against every name and last name, even if it's from our people. We had a problem before with other parties, they didn't have that level of understanding. We are pleased to come together to this civilization now, if you want Serbian and European terrain. I speak today and as a man who is emotionally affected by this. I come from a family who was badly injured in a New Zealand raid. My own grandmother barely survived throwing under the ice, with a three-year-old son and father and husband, but because they were able to somehow pass, they were sent to Auschwitz. There everyone died but her, and the reason we're standing here today before you is pure happiness. Can I speak of Hungarian fascists, fascists, not Hungarians? Yes, there were and we have to stamp them and we have to condemn them, because if we don't, we'll spit on Teleki, Baichi Zilinski, Nadja, Pap Pav, Servo Mihalj, and we can't let that happen. That line between a crime and an innocent must exist. The line between the fascist and the liberator and the freedom fighter must exist and that line must not be ethnic. So today we are a parliament that shows its strength, by calling evil evil evil, and good good, and that is why we are today the Assembly that has the power to say, yes, a crime has been committed, we condemn it, to the side of all the shortcomings of the procedure that existed. We must not be in the same basket, we must not talk like Lajoš Koshut to tell Serbs, as of today, among us will speak only sabers. Those sabers can't be anymore. Mr. Pastor knows, we talked about it in Budapest. Simply, crime is a crime, let's make sure he has a name and a name, condemn him, if he's single, even better, it's even easier, like this. The Hungarians have long waited to receive satisfaction in this regard, and we must find the strength to condemn him. This crime is terrible. Someone because of a certain nationality is deprived of freedom, life or property and we must condemn it. The Democratic Party absolutely supports that principle, and if you will, we have set it in motion in our policy. What we need to be aware is that this must not be part of daily politics, as it must not be part of the preparation of someone's visit, this must not be part of someone's fascination with Europe, this is a matter of inner maturation of civilization, of value, of who we are, if we don't catch up with criminals and separate the innocent from the guilty? Who are we? What are we up for? One more thing, in order to be absolutely clear, by condemning crimes against the innocent population in Vojvodina, which have happened and we have to step on, those crimes, that doesn't mean that the Democratic Party will ever, and hopefully others, agree that there can be an audit of history, that we will be standing in the same machine with those who raised the gun to the neighbor and to their country. We'll never do that. No one who stands up against their country, then Yugoslavia, can be someone who is a part of us. I'm sorry about the people who were seduced, but we're all victims of our choices. It may have been easier to stay home with the stove, but many took the gun and went to fight the fascists. Them hats down there, and the rest of them signed off on their Sundays. I must say, I am proud to be from the Democratic Party, to look at the Assembly where I see the faces of the same-minded, and I know that we are going in a good direction when we find strength and things like this to do to get satisfaction for our people. We will never give up, and we must never, flee from a conviction against the Serbs, against the Jews, against the Roma, especially during the 1942 raid. We ask Hungary to do the same. We have to, not because it's "qui pro quo," but because it's civilization, because if you don't do it and you don't say it, then you're the same, then you support it. The Serbian Parliament will hope to have that power. The Serbian parliament will be better. I'm glad we learned some lessons, some late ones. Today it is a big thing to be a man, to be a Serb, to be a leftist and to say – black is black, white is evil is good is good, fascist is fascist, antifascist is antifascist. The Democratic Party will always be in that position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19248	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19249	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I can agree with some things when it comes to calling this session and its speed, but I can't agree with that because some political representatives have used one of these topics to score cheap political points. Don't let those who can't go home to their neighbors skip the 5% censorship, teach us what to do and how to run the country. This is not even an act of goodwill towards one EU member, this declaration, but is an act of condemnation against innocent citizens of Serbia. Looks to me like someone's got some pots and lids mixed up around here. I also cannot agree that this declaration is a rehabilitation for fascists and criminals, because in point 4. The declarations say -- the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia advocates full rehabilitation of all innocent and innocent victims, without questioning the individual liability of those whose guilt has been proven or proven before independent courts and in a legally conducted procedure. He who said this is a rehabilitation of fascists and criminals should be ashamed because he has committed a sin against the innocently injured citizens of Serbia and cannot deny it. Serbia, unfortunately, probably because of its geographical position had a difficult history in the last century, but apart from geographical position, we also have a complex structure among the nations. World wars, which are certainly the greatest evil that could have hit Serbia, have brought us various interferences, interference between great forces, mixing ideologies. What did we have as a result of that? The result of mixing great forces and various ideologies turned the peoples who lived in Serbia against each other, so I guess that was a small thing for them, so they turned members of the same people against each other. It's our infamous part of history. It is doubtless that the crimes occurred in the territory of the AP Vojvodina both before 1944 and 1945, but it seems to me that someone in 1944 and 1945 came to the wrong conclusion that injustice should be corrected by injustice. This declaration is nothing but an answer to one such act. The Serb people who have been in previous wars, can be said of all the peoples in these areas, suffered the most and had the greatest number of innocent victims, and knows how they feel when an innocent victim is, even if he is not a member of the Serb people. It is this fact that it gives both Serbs and peoples MPs in the Serbian Parliament the right to bring one such declaration first, precisely because we know what it means to be an innocent victim, precisely because we have to condemn all innocent victims and because there is no words about rehabilitation here, because there is no other history here. History doesn't overlap with this declaration, it doesn't rewrite. These are only pale attempts to gain cheap political points by creating nationalism, but not the nationalism that we should respect, but the one that grows into fascism, because not recognising innocent victims if they are not members of your people, what else is the ideology of fascism. We need to be aware of that. And precisely because we first bring one of these declarations we have the right to invite all parliaments, including the Hungarian parliament, to bring one similar declaration because this complex national structure in Serbia exists today, and we are sent to each other, a neighbour to the neighbour, regardless of what faith it is, to which people it belongs. Today, there is a difficult life in Serbia. This difficult life is not just about Serbs, Hungarians or others, it refers to everything. That's why we need a declaration like this, because our citizens don't need to feel separated by nations, but they need to help each other. Certainly, this declaration gives one particular contribution to leaving what is bad behind, to turn to the future and help one another.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19250	The word of the messenger of the people is Joseph Chandor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19251	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, allow me to speak to you about the declaration and at first to say that it is not easy for me. It was not easy for me, nor for my colleagues who had said earlier that he had not slept, thought about how to go and what to say in today's debate, and it was not easy for me for the next reason – I didn't know yesterday when we got the material how to act, how to think about this problem, whether as a proud citizen of the former Yugoslavia, whether again as a proud citizen and an MP of Serbia, whether to perform as a man who is a national member of Hungarian and lives here in this country or to perform as a man who is personally interested in this problem. And we've had our tragedy over these events. Before I go and try to make my point, I have to say that the URS parliamentary group has no dilemma whatsoever, as a party that is democratically oriented, which is citizen-oriented, which in the last 10, 12 years has taken certain steps in talks with the Hungarian state. Of course, we'll support this declaration. Why am I emotionally touched? Because in 1961, when I was born, far back in 1961, I became a Yugoslav. A citizen of a beautiful great country, and until I was four, five years old, I had nothing to do with politics, with the past, with history. Then when I first started looking for my grandfather, they told me my grandfather had disappeared, my son. Of course, as a kid, I had no idea what that meant. They said he went into the woods, fell into Tis and disappeared. So it's been many years. I was proud of Yugoslavia, of my citizenship, of my country. No one said a word in the family about what happened to Grandpa. It was taboo darkness. No grandmother, no father, no one, until about 15 years ago. 15 years ago, a proud Yugoslav or then a citizen of SCG or Serbia, I don't even know, from my uncle at a family lunch, I heard for the first time the official details of the 1944 event, and I even have to say the previous events of 1942. I've been dealing with these questions ever since. Of course, since then I've read everything and closely followed the work of the Inter-Academic Commission that still works today, we've heard today that it's been established. Half the experts from Hungary, half of our personnel from Serbia are still working today. Yesterday afternoon, I invited a member of that commission and I asked them where they came from, they say -- they're halfway there, they're hoping it'll be done fairly, and that both states will provide enough resources to investigate until the end of what happened back in those ancient years. When I started here this morning I decided not to deal with politics, not to deal with party interests, but to deal with people, with the citizens of Vojvodina, with my Hungarians living from Horgos all the way to Novi Sad, and still in those premises and which here, it seems today will finally come that day after seven decades, we may accept a declaration that will, I say, be a little more peaceful, with that declaration some wounds will be healed. I need to tell you one more detail before I go on. After visiting the president of the state of Tomislav Nikolic last year to Hungary, or the president of Hungary, I was recently invited to visit a celebration in Hungary, in the town of Solnok. It was one event where the mayors from that area from Hungary met. The topic was the state, situation and life of the Hungarian national community, outside the queen. There were nine state secretaries, so they asked me to come to the stage because they had a few questions for me, as already a member of the Serbian parliament. There were not a few questions, but only one thing was asked me – how does Mr. Ader and Mr. Nikolic's talks in Pesta interpret, how do I see whether Serbia and the Serbian parliament, the forces, will do what was agreed there? Then we voted on the opening of new borders, and that week we made decisions here to open new borders, so I also had an argument that we were doing and doing everything we could to smooth these relationships out. I told them I was confident that representatives of the Serbian people, the Serbian parliament would make a legal decision and that the step agreed in Pesta would be taken. I love being in this House, and I'm proud to have told these people the most likely truth. On that occasion, I said on behalf of the Duke Hungarians that we Hungarian people have been through everything. They didn't all estimate it identically, what happened in 1942, 1944, but we as a generation who didn't know about these crimes almost anything or little, we only saw our parents, we appreciate that this is the last thorn in our legs, what the people would say. The last thorn of the Hungarian people, I also believe that part of the Serbian people who lives with us and who has its consequences for the year 1942. I can say that our decision on the declaration today, I believe, awaits the President of Hungary with less anxiety than tens of thousands of other living mothers, sons, brothers, sisters who escorted their loved ones in late October and early November 1944. Here, after about 60 years of these events, my father, then eight years old, told me yesterday on the phone what it looked like on November 9, 1944. He said this - son, your grandfather was never a soldier. We were five brothers and sisters. During the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, he had a small child and was not invited to war against the occupation forces. When the Hungarians entered the territory of the Vojvodina, they didn't recruit him, as did many other people, because he had a small child in his family again. When the war ended and went to the street, 200 meters from the house went to the well for water. He had an accident that day that those forces that were sent to that field were retaliating. He was just picked up from the well, Dad was looking down the street and calming him down with his words – son, I'm going home, tell your mother there's no problem. Dad went home and on that day he saw his father for the last time and trust me, never until a few days ago, until yesterday, he didn't complain about Yugoslavia or his Serbian friends he worked with. I'm kind of proud of my father for that. He never tried to send such a message that someone here was guilty of killing someone from revenge. He sent me to Sarajevo to study school, to meet people and peoples. In Sainta, we grew up with friends of Serbs who spoke to me in Hungarian, and I spoke to them in Serbian. Believe me, this is a very important day, for those very reasons. If we could keep quiet, if we couldn't find out until a few days ago what was going on, then we have to make one such decision, or this declaration we have to accept, so that mothers, sons, grandchildren would be... . I don't know what right word to put it. When I took the document into my hands yesterday afternoon, I had the same problem at first moment, as my dear colleague spoke earlier. I was startled. Only three places are listed, and I know that more than a hundred locations have been marked in the research of a joint commission where retributions have been made, where shootings have been carried out. The second and third time I read the text of the declaration, I realized that I probably didn't get a good look at it in the first wave. I think the text of the declaration is fine. I was amazed because only three places here were listed, and I know that more than a hundred locations were marked in the Joint Commission's research, where retributions were done, shootings were done. The second and third time I read the text of the declaration, I realized that I probably didn't get a good look at it in the first wave. I think the text of the declaration is fine. I think the supplement they have offered here today is quite acceptable and in this text the declaration in point 1) is said to be – that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia strongly condemns acts against the civilian Hungarian population committed from 1944 to 1945 in which persons for national reasons are deprived of life, freedom and other rights without judicial or administrative decision. In point 1) we release the guilt of those people from those places, settlements that are not listed in point 2) such as Horgos, Subotica, Kanjiza, Adorjan, from where my grandfather, Sainta, Mol, Ada and until Novi Sad. Why it's an important point 2) and why it's particularly isolated, I think I only realized last night. Because in these places, based on one political decision by the then military administration, there was mass retaliatory action. A decision has been made, not a court but a political one, go and drive the people away. From the town of Čurug, from the town of Žablj and Mošorin in January and in March 1945 special units sent there simply drove people out of their homes, took their jewelry, took the money and cattle and clothes they had on them and had nothing to send, deported whether to Temerin or to other municipalities in the camps, were displaced. These three municipalities have been cleared. It's like retaliating events in the Frog and New Sad during the raid. I realized that's why these places have to be particularly important because they've had special treatment. My esteemed colleague from Somboro just before, for me, she gave a wonderful speech and I simply have to say encouraged by it, although I have nothing to do with what happened in 1942 in Žablja, Čurug and Novi Sad, this way I join her rank and apologize to all those descendants of Serbs, Jews and those who were shot at Zablja, Novi Sad. I apologize for those people who need to apologize on behalf of my people. I think that what the second colleague here said, that he expects the Hungarian Parliament to react, I must say that, it seems to me, the President of Parliament said – in 1943, the wartime then General Staff of the Hungarian Army called for the responsibility of all the officers who had done this horror in Zablja, i.e. in Novi Sad and that year were not prosecuted because they were at the battlefields. The procedure was initiated immediately after World War II and they were arrested. One part of those officers was extradited to the former Yugoslavia and were shot in our country. What was I gonna say? I was going to say that they had already taken the first step and the first act. I know that after 2000, several procedures were launched, several actions between the parliaments that were crowned by agreement and signature. Between 2006 and 2010, an agreement was signed between the president of Hungary's then parliament and the president of our parliament in Belgrade. A very important act is what we do for me today, for many people, women, sons and girls, even for my sons who have not yet seen the grave of their great-grandfather because there is no grave. The truth is, after 2000, we were allowed to build a group monument in all these municipalities. Until then, that wasn't even possible. The truth is also in Adorian, Kanjija, Senti and most likely all these municipalities. The truth is that where it was most tragic in Frog and Churug monuments were erected on one side and on the other. I don't think because of this mistake we're correcting today, these monuments couldn't stand stable at this age because that last thorn hasn't been pulled out of its legs yet. I think in this act today we're correcting it. I think that Hungarians, or our fellow citizens and friends, with the Serbian people that we have lived with for centuries without any problem that we will be provided for the next period, to carry on this life together without a problem. I don't want to go into any further discussion. I appeal once again, believing that this declaration will be voted upon by those people who will have the right and the opportunity to decide on the means of that interstate commission, whether to continue to investigate or not, to do everything we can to make sure that they finish their job precisely because those who were guilty know exactly whether it was the culprit. In that intention, once again as a man and our MP group, we will vote this declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19252	The word is Bojan Đuric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19253	Dear Mr. Arsenovic, this is, of course, a specific session. I waited for Mr. Shandor to finish. I thought it was a simple order, but I'm advertising a violation of article 107 regarding a part of Mr. Arsic's exposure, an authorised representative of the SNS. I think you were silent, and you had to intervene in a situation where, I believe, Mr. Arsic severely violated the dignity of the National Assembly in the part where he said that the result of the interference of the great forces of the period of World War II was that they were intertwined with one another, the peoples living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I think it is an offensive finding for both the Serbian people and other peoples who lived or lived in our territory. Namely, the conflict in Serbia's territory or the Liberation War led by members of the Serb people and the vast majority of other peoples living here were not the result of mixing or defining for one or another major force. This country was in two wars on the better side of humanity, especially in World War II and was part of the winner coalition. Other nations living in this area, for example, were not on the other side of Hungary. Mr. Stefanovic spoke of members of the people who were also part of the liberation movement. I think what Mr. Arsic was saying is offensive to all members of the different peoples on our country's territory by placing them in one or the other category, on the side of the victory forces or on the side of the fascist axis. That's just not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19254	I don't think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure. It was right for the MP to give his view of the causes of World War II. I wouldn't get into that right now. It's a special story, and you can say that in voting day, we plead. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? (No) We are moving on to the list of registered speakers, and the first MP is Dejan Michaelov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19255	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak of this subject without emotion, with a cold head. As someone who shared school benches with Hungarians, Romanians and Slovaks, I have an entirely tolerated relationship without passion for all national minorities and I am operated on both nationalism, chauvinism, fascism and all others. But I'm just like all those patriots and I have a relationship with what happened in our country all those years ago. I am bound by my ancestors, who died during the occupation, while Vojvodina was torn between three fascist regimes -- German, Hungarian and Ustasha, to say and to say what is true. When I say Ustasha, I mean Croatian. When we talk about this declaration, we will insult the victims and Hungarians, as well as those Serbian victims, Roma and Jewish, if we do not talk about what preceded the crime that took place in 1944 and 1945. It is amazing to me that in this session, when we speak of the history of this country and of this people, the hall is half empty, when an attempt is made to review the history of a nation and anti-fascist struggle in Serbia, whether it is right, whether it is Partizanska, that this hall is empty. It's incomprehensible for me if we don't talk about what happened in 1944. We're not talking about those victims and the heirs of those victims who live with us here today. If we're not talking about the fact that 4,000 people were thrown under the ice for a few days in Novi Sad, in front of the holes that were made at -30 in the Danube, where ten people were killed and thrown under ice. If we don't say that in Churug, the place where most Serbs were killed, and the great loss of Serbs, Roma and Jews, where in one night, in the "yellow room", nearly 500 people were filled – Serbs, Roma and Jews, where only one window was opened that pushed two – three barrels of machine guns and where they were shot until they all fell down. We speak in Churug in 1942, where Serbs were shot at Serbian Christmas on January 7, 1942. Not the shooters, killed in the dark yellow room. That came before 1944. If we're talking about a declaration here, condemning acts against the civilian Hungarian population in Vojvodina, we need to talk about a declaration that will cover everything, and what preceded it, condemnation of acts against the Hungarian civilian population. Jews, Roma and Serbs collectively suffered as civilian populations, not by name and last name, but by their nationality, because they were Serbs, because they were Jews and because they were Roma and because it was the plan of Hungary, Horti and his generals and defence ministers, to carry out a "new-Sad massacre". That was their country's plan, and that's historical data from the mixed commission. These are facts we can't go over when we talk about this declaration. We at the DSS don't want to sound like some nationalist or anything else, we just want to light up the whole part of Serbia's history, so we can't ignore that fact when we talk about crimes that were committed in 1944. If there were no place in this declaration, which you are proposing today, in one sentence, in one paragraph to mention the victims that existed from 1942 to 1944, that there was no place to say when the first crimes were committed on a national basis, that is something that is totally unacceptable to us. Please withdraw this resolution, the declaration, to make one declaration that will condemn also the crimes of 1941 and 1942 and the crimes of 1944 and 1945. It must be known what preceded the events that took place in 1944 and that in the "newer-day raid" everyone was killed without order, that there were "greater ten", or a committee that decided who would be killed and who wouldn't. They've brought 20,000 people who've been in front of that council in 20 days, where they've decided who's going to go to the left, and who's going to go to the right, who's going to take the road to the Strand, under the ice, and who might survive. These are historical facts and these are historical facts that we cannot ignore. In the same way, the Hungarians died in 1944, in this same Churug, as one rematch because of the victims of Serbs, Roma and Jews in 1942 and also on Christmas. There's too much symbolism in casualties to allow us to leave what preceded. Considering in particular that Hungary did not face the way we are now facing the crimes committed on behalf of their nation and on behalf of Hungary, in the name of fascism and brotherhood with Hitler, Mussolini and Ante Pavelic. Hungary following two convictions by Sandor Kepir, the captain of the gendarme, who was personally responsible, according to Ephraim Zurof of the Simon Visental Centre, for at least 35 victims, and commanded the New Sad gendarme, which was the organizer and realiser of the crime in Novi Sad, Curug, Žablja, where the entire street was lost. They freed Shandor Kepira. The Hungarian court freed him. In 2011, he freed Sandor Kepir, who has evidence that he was killing and is responsible for at least 35 victims of Serbian, Roma and Jewish nationality. The Hungarian court freed him. The Hungarian parliament has never brought a declaration of condemnation to the crime of fascist Hungary since 1941. It's not a question of condemning all the crimes that are here, but let's condemn all the crimes. Let's start since 1941. Shouldn't you do that, because then it won't be valid, that declaration, if crimes have been mentioned since 1941? It will not apply and will not recognise this declaration if it is mentioned that the Dukes, in Back or in Novi Sad, were killed by Jews, Roma and Serbs. I don't know what we're doing here today. And for the reconciliation that we're all talking about, reconciliation has been achieved and reconciliation has been achieved. This way and this declaration that is presented in this way, we're just resuscitating old wounds. We will not contribute to reconciliation, but will contribute to the debate today, why are Serbian, Jewish and Roma victims not mentioned? What happened in 1944 and 1945 is the result of the brutal, most brutal crime that can be compared to the one in Jasenovac, Novi Sad and the ice throw. Whether the Roma, the Jews, were struck with a mallet and thrown under the ice, or shot in the back of their head, or otherwise killed, it happened. The New Zealand streets were covered with corpses. The new Sad, which was then numbering 40,000, killed 4,000 in the last three weeks of the raid. Four thousand, ten percent. In Churug, 30% of the lives were killed during the raid. These are the facts that must have been mentioned in this declaration, if we are to condemn all the victims and even all the victims, and that there is no discrimination in accordance with our Constitution. This is how we discriminated against the victims. It's simple, in our best interest, to prevent falsified history, we'll be in a situation where tomorrow someone will declare Gabriel Principe a terrorist because it's someone's interest. You'll see, we'll be witnesses. We'll come to a situation where we can adopt a declaration here to apologize to the Banat Germans and declare Prince Eugen the Division liberating. I don't know what we're doing here today. Simply, in the way that I believe that a serious state must work, which is to withdraw the declaration, that through one procedure that exists, we make a declaration as appropriate to all the victims, not only to the victims of one people, but to all the collective victims in that period, and to bring one declaration that will honor and pride to all the victims from 1941 to 1945, and then to insist that all the parliaments of the countries in which there were victims bring such a declaration. It's my suggestion, as a proposal for someone who's been killed by many in World War II and as a proposal for a man who wants to make peace, because I've lived in that reconciliation all these years and I want to live on in that reconciliation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19256	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ruzica Igic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19257	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, respected colleagues and colleagues, you suggest that this declaration be adopted by emergency procedure, in order to provide a necessary element in the region's reconciliation process in Serbia's EU accession process. I was wondering if this meant that due to the EU accession process, another condition was imposed on Serbia? So, little by little, we have recognised Kosovo, and now we have another condition -- to give up our history. However, we heard from colleague Diana that in fact the declaration was brought in honor of the arrival of the Hungarian president. I wonder if we're ready to bring in another declaration when Angela Merkel comes in? Or will Croatia bring a similar declaration when Tomislav Nikolic leaves for Croatia soon? And I think they have a lot more reason to bring in one such declaration. I come from Novi Sad, and I was born in this Moshorin that's a lot of talk about here, and that's why I might be a little emotional about it. I was born there, where Svetozar Miletic was born, where Isidora Sekulic was born. It's a beautiful old man's place, which during the raid was incredibly lost. Every third man, the village of Moshorin, disappeared during the pogrom, and we accepted the Hungarian term – raid, and our term - was kind of erased. In Shayaksk, we all lived in normal relationships until that Second World War. We didn't share, my grandfather told me, people according to whether they were Serbs, Croats, Hungarians, but whether they were humans or non-humans. The work began and the inhumane death of the population began. My father, named Stephen, was no longer his name in his home books, and the baptism of the population began, and his name was Istvan. The names of all his colleagues have been changed. In addition, the first victim in Shajkaska was prota Vlaškalic. Prota Vlaškalić, an old man, who, along with a woman who was Hungarian nationality captured and led to Šikaša 10km on foot, followed the car in front of the bayonet. He and that woman who was Hungarian were killed. What was their fault? Behind all this was the priest who was a Roman Catholic priest in Moshorin. Most of you know about Kragujevac and the victims that happened in Kragujevac – 7,000 pupils died in Kragujevac. Do you know that according to Hungarian sources in the pogroms in Shaikask and Novi Sad, more than 12,000 people were killed, information immediately after World War II. Of course, that number of victims has increased and decreased further to a newer period. No one, or at least most of you, knows what was going on there. There's a monument that's been erected in Novi Sad, and the monument in these surrounding villages is no longer being visited. Unfortunately, neither do our children who grow up in Novi Sad, Vojvodina, and at all in Shaikask. I can't say there were no other victims. In Djurdjevo, for example, you all know of Kamenko Katic, his parents, teachers in that village, were killed during the raid. Professor Tucakov, an academic, sent his five-year-old child to Curug for salash to his parents to protect him in some way from the bombing of Belgrade and the war in Belgrade. The complete family of Tucakov, both the grandparents and the brother of Professor Tucakov and the uncles and the five-year-old child were killed. What was that five-year-old kid's fault? There was a war. We understand that. It's not these people who have been guilty since 1944-1945, but Hungarian fascists have. For all that, I support what my colleague said before me. We ask that this declaration be withdrawn, that all the victims they were, whether from Hungarian, whether on the Serbian side, or from Jewish, or from Roma, in some way in this declaration of mention. In this way, to mention only Hungarian victims, not to mention all the other victims in Vojvodina, or in Shaykasca, I feel very uncomfortable as a man from Moshorin because I know 200 people from a small village were killed. As for the trial itself, after World War II, trials were held. Some were convicted, of course on the basis of evidence, some escaped, some of the participants went to other places in Vojvodina, and Serbs, Jews, Roma, carried their victims and went out to the cemetery every year to remind themselves of their victims, not to forget. However, they also remembered the good people who stepped into their protection. My mom's from Koville. There were no raid victims in Kovil. Why? Because he was a man, a local Hungarian, who protected and stood before the Fascist and said, "You will not kill anyone here." So there were people like that. We don't argue. His name carries one street in Kovili. As we heard, Hungarian Parliament MP Andrej Bajci Žalanski paid, unfortunately, with his life advocating for it and his premonition of what was going on, that the blood flowed along the streets of Novi Sad. Today their names stand and carry the streets of the Duke's places. As a reason for making the declaration, you also state the need to provide moral satisfaction for the injustice that has been done to the inhabitants of the Hungarian people, the municipalities of Curug, Moshorin and Froglj in Vojvodina, by making decisions based on the principle of collective responsibility that all inhabitants of the Hungarian nationalities of these municipalities have been declared war criminals. That's not true. Not all citizens of Hungary are declared war criminals. I certainly know that the Sekerush family of Moshorin lived long after these events in Moshorin. But I also know that many others have indeed been killed. No country in the world has ever adopted a resolution of such a type, and Serbia has never condemned any crime against its own people. You remembered that 70 years after the war, and after 1944 and 1945, you made one resolution and that you had an advertised historical facts, and you even claimed it in this material that you delivered to us. Once again, we have collective guilt, and postwar events with Serbia and Serbs have nothing to do with it. Generally, there was a military administration that lasted 103 days, which made the decisions it made, but they were not only Serbs. At the head of the military administration was John Joseph Rukavin, whose brother was a member of the Black Legion. The Serbs, if you will allow me to say, are the same victims as everyone else, and in 1944 and 1945, and the Serbs were seriously injured in these places. First of all, the wealthy Serbs, from Tanurdzic to Adamovic and all other Novosadians who had a very large wealth and who were persecuted because of this wealth and who lost everything they had. Therefore, other victims, other than Serbs, Hungarians, were taking away their property, as well as the Germans, and they were likely members of other nationalities, such as the Slovaks, Russians, Russians. So the resolution that implies only one nation is not complete. Add it, withdraw it, show understanding to all other victims – according to Romanians, Slovaks, Russians, there are plenty on the victims' lists after World War II and 1944 and 1945. The Democratic Party of Serbia advocates that you treat everyone the same, not just one national minority. We think it's even against the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19258	Mrs. Vukomanovic, on what grounds? (Dijana Vukomanovic: I am mentioned, Mrs Igic mentioned me in her presentation. Although, by name only, not by last name. If you're mentioned, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19259	I thank my colleague Igic for giving me the right to clarify some of my views, but also to take a step further into the elaborated what will happen if the National Assembly of Serbia adopts such a committed declaration dedicated to the death of a part of a people. I would remind distinguished colleagues from a parliamentary group who are so keenly opposed to adopting a declaration like this at this political moment, so in the 21st century, as you said, 80 years after the misdeed, that our fellow Israeli parliamentarians in 1953, therefore, the Israeli Parliament, Knesset, founded the memorial centre "Jad Vashen". You were in power, we were in power, now some are in power, and some are in opposition, and what prevents the Serbian parliament from establishing that. For 20 years, we have been watching a multi-party parliament in Serbia. You know the expression in the Jewish people and they share recognition for anonymous people protecting their fellow citizens in this way that you pointed out that some brave and prominent Hungarians in their local environments protected Serbian citizens. What prevents us as politicians who have been very strong in power for several years to adopt such a declaration that will protect all victims of the fascist pogrom, regardless of nationality? Why do you object now that some initial steps seem to be taking, late? Why are you now opposed and where were you to point to Serbian sacrifices and count them in the way that the Jewish people counted their victims? What were you waiting for?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19260	The word has a People's MP, Ruzica Igic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19261	I remind my colleague that's not what I was talking about. That it's a replica, if it suits me, and that it hurt the Rules of Procedure, because it didn't have a replica. If she suits me, I called her and asked her if this declaration was actually brought to the honor of the arrival of the Hungarian president and nothing else. It was a sentence I sent her. Secondly, we think that this declaration will only open the Pandora's box and lead to new tensions in the northern province and that you really need to pull it back. Think about what's going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19262	Mr. Samardzic, on what basis are you answering? (Free Samardzic, from the scene: she called the whole party "what did you do". She called the party "as long as you were in power". That's right about this party. Now he's trying to cancel it, but otherwise it was context and content. You can judge, but it was clear to everyone who she was alluding to, and it was not intentional to leave a particular dilemma with you and not give me a word. Whatever you want. ) The word is made by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19264	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this declaration that is due to be adopted today in parliament, unfortunately, has been laid on completely wrong grounds, and it will not calm down, but will further fuel national tensions in the AP Vojvodina. It also speaks of the need to release the collective responsibility of the Hungarian people who, as far as I know, was never collectively responsible, nor was it imputed to them. But I'd like to make a few historical facts. The entry of the Hungarian army into Yugoslav territory on 11 April 1941, only four months after the signing of the treaty on the majority of Yugoslav-Hungarian friendship, was very bloody, especially in those places where representatives of the Hungarian minority as non-mzetters, or people's guards, formed their units that welcomed the Hungarian Honreds. Thus, in the early April days of the war 3,500 Serbs were killed in 13 cities, from Subotica via Sainta, Curuga, then south to Novi Sad. In total, the raids were by the nemzeter, co-workers of the Keln Hirato intelligence services or local Hungarian police officers, and we need to know that two police schools were founded exclusively for Hungarians in Somboro and Novi Sad, 30,000 Serbs were killed. According to Croatian UDBA, 1,779 Hungarians were shot at the end of the war, which is said to have been war criminals. The source of the Croatian UDBA believes it was not about revenge, it was about the prosecution of war criminals. The then Hungarian Prime Minister, Mr. Bardoshi, said at the trial after World War II that, I quote, "it was a crime committed in the interest of the Hungarian state and the people", and today President Orban says it was an attack against the rebels and legitimate defence of Hungary. So much for reconciliation, for the region and for those efforts. The state commissions after World War II, which have investigated and dealt with Hungarian crimes, have branded them as fascist crimes. We can't if we talk about the reconciliation process to skip the deanification. Denacification, in the case of fascism, is the only way to make reconciliation. However, denacification has a prejudication of guilt, unlike the classical right that presunciates innocence. Someone who has innocently suffered in this whole story of punishment should prove that his descendants, relatives, prove his innocence, because this is the essence of the rehabilitation process, and we have had the opportunity to see both among our and among other peoples so many times. However, this declaration, I would say, introduces a review of history and self-respect. Why do I say that? For example, Curug will now become a symbol of Hungarian suffering, and in Curug it was killed in a raid of nearly 4,000 Serbs, so that Serbs are forgotten, and now it becomes only a place of Hungarian suffering. I wonder – how far will it go to change the essence of what happened, because if this is done, everything is allowed? Then you can change the essence of Ninberg. So, how do we treat the Jews? Are we going to declare fascists as victims? What is this declaration doing to the Serbian people? We, as a people, accept backwards that we are prone to crimes and participate voluntarily in the continuity of imposing guilt on the Serbian people. Boris Tadic sought to investigate the crimes against the Hungarians for daily-political reasons. The Commission allegedly did some work, we never got those reports, but the research is not even done, and we are now bringing a declaration despite all the facts that we have about what's been going on. This declaration has several dangerous consequences. First of all, it's collective rehabilitation of criminals, and then get their property back, because it goes in the package. Today, Hungarians, tomorrow or a few years from now, the Germans. I wonder if it's by any chance that the Duke Germans' associations are formed and that they visit and visit houses from which, as occupiers, they were deported, they or their parents? Does this mean that the Colonists from like, from Bania, Kordun, Bosnia, Dalmatia and Herzegovina will lose their home again? Another equally important and terrible question, a terrible fact, is that this is the beginning of a dispute over the territory of the AP to the Serbian people. To remind you, foreigners have long begun to tell the story that Albanians should actually gain independence in Kosovo, because it is so-called. deserved independence, after Serbs lost, due to crimes against Albanians, the right to Kosovo and Metohija. It is precisely this declaration by the Serbian Parliament that begins the separation of Vojvodina from Serbia that this is, believe me, the first step. The success of reconciliation in the region and this time, as many times as we have so far, is measured by the degree of Serbian guilt that we unfortunately impose on ourselves again. Our dignity is being destroyed... (President: time is spent. )......................................................................................................... The memories of our victims are being destroyed and our country is being torn apart. Is it possible that this calendar government, just for the sake of getting a date, is ready to sow such a spirit of self-refoulement in Serbia? As long as the humiliation, I wonder.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19265	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I come from the local government of Sremska Mitrovica and, as many may have been known, during World War II, the history of Srema was a little different and we are mostly on this history, related to NOB and the People's Liberation Movement are extremely proud and we have always been responsible for this subject, without the need to use such things for daily political purposes and to get some short-term political points. In Sremska Mitrovica, in particular, some 8,000 people were shot during World War II by the German and Ustasha regime. Because of our importance and our relationship with all these victims, we have never been easy to deal with what happened in 1941 to 1945. If the intensity of what is today ahead of us is to finally put an end to some painful topics that have pervaded the history of the Vojvodina and international relations, of course we always welcome it, and we have always been the first to support peace and dialogue among the national communities. But, too, we should not use such topics for advocacy to anyone for any reason, regardless of who or when comes to visit our country, which was very often the case in the very recent past, that when we, say, have a visit to Russian officials, we change the street's names quickly and suddenly we call on our famous anti-fascist history, although at the same time we are passing laws that rehabilitate occupiers and that greatly celebrate what should not be glorified, whether it be Nedic, Ljotic, about Draža Mihajlovic. I think that even when it comes to members of other national communities, in particular the occupiers of Hungary, belonging to the Hungarian national community, the relationship to this must be identical. In Croatia, which enters the EU, we have witnessed that what was also relatively happening during World War II and largely being questioned is the role of NOB and even being questioned, they have this topic, what happened at Bleiburg and it is not just the case in Serbia that those who were on the wrong side during World War II are today glaring, and victims and those who were on the side of the darkest ideology that has ever hit humanity. Those who sent people to camps, who only killed because someone else's name is called and named, those who literally in gas chambers have destroyed generations and generations, primarily Jews and members of other national communities because they belong to a particular nation, or have a certain ideologicality, I don't think we should put them in the same plane as the victims who are more than obvious today. Two million people lost their lives in this area during World War II. Vojvodina came out of NOB with 15 brigades, three divisions, its main headquarters and the People's Liberation Committee. It's exactly the traditions on which we're building our political and historical sovereignty today, and I don't think that can be questioned at all. If we are already insisting on reconciliation, it is important that we know that the nations have never fought, the peoples have nothing to settle. There are individuals who have a name and a last name, who have very consciously promoted certain ideologies, who have sent people to their deaths. These same ideologies were also vampireized for twenty years, or just 20 years ago. In the 1990s, we were once again witnessing here similar ideas that people should be divided by name and last name and that's why many have lost their lives. We can't let that kind of thing happen here again. If this declaration, the intensity of this declaration to put an end to certain wounds, it is fine, but it is not right that from day to day some things are relativating and that when it comes to marking the anniversary of Auschwitz, or when it is marking Europe's Day, no one from Serbia goes to that event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19267	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19268	Dear Vice President, the promoter is not here right now, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, first of all, good afternoon, Juno Pottenock. It's a really good day over Serbia, but unfortunately, I'm afraid we're not all ready, as it usually is in Serbia, to welcome it in an adequate way. This is the final step, essentially the last step of what the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia began in 2004, in co-operation with the National Assembly as well, as both Hungary and Serbia belong to those rare countries that have the National Assembly. I wanted to come once and for the last step, I wanted to not sit here in the parliamentary bench, but upstairs at the gallery, and that I could listen with joy to what should be the essence of this act, which is the willingness of the highest body of a state to clearly separate the need for tolerance, the need for reconciliation of the people, not because the nations were fighting, but because there are always individuals who are willing to attribute any segment of historical events to the entire people and, worse still, to be politically and realistically abused. Secondly, to coronate years of individual efforts on what is myth, what is legend, and what are facts. Today, unfortunately as it is, we find ourselves in a situation, many have drawn attention to the quickness of the text, for no apparent reason why not in the previous months, a text that has no grudges, from the point of view of generality. But unfortunately, it does not contain everything that the Declaration would contain, and I remind once again that this is a declaration, not a resolution, and there are no facts that many could fear, which one such declaration always contains, when they are brought by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, among other things, a list of documents, and thank God there are them. So, among other things, the list of documents on which it relys, and thank God there are, and it has them thanks to this very people's congregation, not to this congregation, but to this people's congregation and the enormous work of a whole series of people who have engaged in it in the past years. Finally, that kind of text when adopted, it must also be emotional, that first part, reason, prevention, tolerance, rests on reason, of course, facts, but this other one must rest on emotion, because, of course, there are those who remember what their loved ones remember. I am so pleased to have had the honor of hearing today such an honest statement by Mr. Joseph Sandor and Mrs. Zlata Đerić, members of two nations from different parts of today's Vojvodina, who, reminding the facts, but also of stories, gave the right emotional tone as I expected to prevail today in one such session. I remind you, these kind of declarations always have at least two more aspects. One is, and that is why they are always brought many years later than the events they refer to, that there is not what often happens in politics, that someone slams into the chest and says – and I know... You know, if the declaration is brought in after 40 years, then someone 50 years old you can believe they really know something reliable, because they saw it, not that someone told him. That's why they usually come in after 70, 80 years, when nobody's serious. Even if he looks like he's 80 years old, he's a lot less, he shouldn't say – I certainly know something he could just read or tell him. We, unfortunately, cannot resist this first aspect, that a day-to-day policy something is misused, even when you represent a political option that has changed the political attitude towards something on one side or on the other just the previous years. It's, unfortunately, common. Another aspect of these sessions would have to be that there is one symbolic act after, when one process, in this case, takes nine years, from the moment we agreed and signed exactly for the abuse of historical facts, and they have been abused by many fascisoid elements both in Serbia and Hungary, through the media, through concrete ugly events, when we started together, signed a pact on tolerance and launched a process of events that ends today's declaration. After that, of course, one gesture must follow symbolically, and we will be able, quite certainly, to the president of the states to make this symbolic gesture and act. This belongs to the presidents, regardless of whether they are elected in parliament, such as the president of Hungary, or only taking an oath in parliament, and they are elected directly, such as the Serbian president's question. What is nice, I can personally testify, and when it comes to one and the other president, although they changed political opinions during the previous decade, they had the same attitude with street contacts as they would symbolically confirm in the coming days. It's a great pleasure to be able to testify. We have to say the names of those people who may be the most responsible for starting this process in an adequate way. First of all, Mrs. Catalin Sili, President of the Hungarian Parliament, then, Mr. Laslo Joza, at the time the president of the National Council of the Duchy Hungarians, then Geza Kuchera, the mayor of Subotica of that time. A whole series of people, including Serbia's ambassadors to Hungary, unfortunately, are not all alive, as are not all MPs from Istvan Istvanovic, who stood at the beginning of the process, to a whole series of other people of different nationalities who helped, but more importantly why this process started, so why are we bringing this declaration today too. We bring for some new people. Mrs. Sili and I, who we met to follow up on how this Treaty of Tolerance was being conducted, we met every six months, which she says, more often than with some relatives extends the family, so when we saw each other in Segedin, because it took place alternately, there I met two young people, they're still young today, and then they were even younger, that I thought they were students, and they weren't, turned out to be the secretary and deputy of the National Council. In the meantime, that same year, we succeeded and I thank all MPs, and today their parties are here, therefore, to New Serbia MPs, the Democratic Party of Serbia, the Socialist Party of Serbia, of course, now the United Regions of Serbia, and then the G17 plus, who were determined to end the possibility that there were no Hungarian nationality MPs in the Serbian parliament. This will never happen again thanks to the law we passed. Not only will it always be, but it will always come from different political options. There's no need for them to have a national party to be here. That's what we solved by removing the census. Certainly the wonderful results we all enjoy today, so we can hear here how well they represent their views, among other things, and the two young people I met then, Mr. Laslo Varga and Mr. Balint Pastor. They teach us lessons, when asked by Mr. Pastor, often from a language culture, because they speak much more in Serbian language than most speakers at these sessions. It's all something we have to enjoy and it's what these declarations are for, but what's devastating? It's devastating that we don't have enough awareness of what we've done ourselves. In the visions of this National Assembly there is also a recognition of which I may be the proudest in my life, which is a recognition for the historic contribution to reconciliation of the Serbian and Hungarian people, which was handed to me in 2006 in the Hungarian parliament. If when we write this declaration we have no awareness of it, how will we yet have awareness of the work that has just begun and which is financially threatened perhaps? It is the work of the academic committees of the Academy of Hungary and Serbia, and the work of that commission, we should not wait for its end, not for this topic of reconciliation, about other topics, those that should not be abused for political purposes, which is precisely the determination of the names and status of the victims, the kind of work that should be done, and I hope that they will be done when it comes to any kind of time for which we have the documentation of the victims, because those victims are specific people. It was terrible to hear today at the session, I suppose in political heat, when one MP said – we don't need a declaration like this, perhaps some individual criminal slipped through among those victims. Well, isn't the basic principle of justice and justice better to free 100 criminals than to condemn an innocent? We're talking about events that happened in 1944 and 1945. Once again, I thank those who are with an exact measure, I have heard Mr. Shandore and Mrs. Djeric, I have not heard all the speakers, I hear that Mr. Stefanovic has carefully, precisely and clearly separated different historical times, different victims from different regimes. To avoid confusion, one of my particularly dear colleagues was, I suppose, a little wrong in the act of enthusiasm, so something that the heritage of the whole Serbian state, and not one political party individually, which is the liquids of anti-fascism, and we must be proud that the whole of Serbia is a legacy. For example, the parties can inherit, say, the buildings of the previous parties in which they are, let's say, some heritage of the Communist Party building, some heritage and the ideology of the Communist Party. As far as I know, there are two parties sitting in this room. One fits one description, the other matches another description. Those who are the heritage ideologies of what the Communist Party did in 1944 and 1945, at their sessions you will see people who were, for example, representatives of the regime on the occasion of the Golog Island, you will see them at their session. These others will also see how they are ready to simply respect one tradition, but of course, political action differs and changes over time and it is good when it changes for the better. That's good for everyone. There's nothing good or bad about it. This kind of declaration should serve, and that is why I have given so much praise, in addition to all these remarks somewhat satirical towards my colleagues, trying to remind them, because I respect the members of their parties, respect the greatest number of them personally, that they account for such texts, such as this declaration, the courtesy with which we propose is not exactly respected, but the courtesy with which we discuss and vote for these texts leaves a greater impression, more therapeutic on those who, out of prejudice, legends, would otherwise have different behaviour. This applies not only to the relations of the Hungarian and Serbian people. I'll give you two dyspressions. The Ministry of Culture used to take serious care of our Kosovo monuments under UNESCO's protection. I had to tell the press once -- there is an Albanian people and there is a Serbian people and there are thieves. Thieves from the Mother of Ljeviška took the lead roof and they are no different from thieves who took the same lead roof from the New Belgrade Academy building. They trade lead. Let's not mix that stuff up. When you politely respect the profession, history, decency, facts and obligations of the highest authorities do something decent, it affects. I'll give you another example. Here, now it's the Milani Edict, marking 1700 years, perhaps the most famous act of tolerance. In that spirit is this declaration too. Two years ago, we marked an act that preceded it. As you know, it's a Galerian act, which is also an edict, regarding tolerance, and we've marked it where there's a really big and significant cultural monument from this age, in Felix Romulana. We were present, and Patriarch Iriney and I were present. There was, as it always is, some local, let's say manager, who tried to take advantage of that opportunity, so he could fool the patriarch and me and sell us eggs for 20,000 dinars, under the assumption of humanitarian action, but as soon as we politely distracted him that he was different from what the state, what serious people are, what are the patriarch and the minister of culture, and what are humanitarian actions, management or whatever, that these things are not allowed to interfere, of course the gentleman retreated. All we do is bring this declaration to remind us that it is the obligation of this National Assembly to constantly worry about true tolerance, to take care of the tone, and when it comes to a specific case, and that I will end up reminding us, the anthems of Hungary and Serbia are starting with almost the same sentence. I hope you know Serbia's anthem, so I don't want to remind you. The hymn of Hungary reads – God bless all Hungarians. In an anthem spirit, we should discuss and declare one such declaration, as much as it has its inadequacies in preparation, speed and urgency of adoption, in order to allow the presidents of the states to take their symbolic steps with that final step. Thank you all for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19269	The word is by MP Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19270	Dear colleagues, from today's discussions, whether they are MPs of opposition or position, there is an impression that there are duplications here, that the Serbian and Hungarian people are still at odds and that by adopting this declaration we are today correcting historical injustices and solving this problem of our two peoples' quarrel. I will only remind myself of the period of disintegration of the former SFRY in 1991, when in response to the mobilization, which the JNA then issued, close to 90 if not 90% of Hungarian national minorities responded because they respected their state of Yugoslavia. Together with Serbs, Roma, Jews and other national minorities and members of the Serb people as the majority people in Yugoslavia or Serbia, they defended the constitutional order of that Yugoslavia, regardless of how far past, 50 years before we can hear, according to their grandfathers, relatives or compatriots, a crime has been committed here today. It's one hard fact that we all have to accept, which is that winners always write history. It is also true that in 1942, the winner of something that was then occupied by Vojvodina, divided by Vojvodina, committed a huge crime against the Serbian, Roma and Jewish people. Of course, that crime was committed against some other national minorities, but there weren't many words about them here. It is also true that the military administration, which of the competent state authorities was formed at the end of 1944 in early 1945, in the case of this declaration, is primarily in these three cuts, i.e. In these three places, in two cuts, she committed, we can say slightly, a certain retaliation on those grounds by which they had at the time as legal grounds, which is to hear and determine whether someone committed a crime, if someone pointed to some crime, whether someone had failed or just prayed, as someone here said, for the fate of those who were then slaughtered and whose safety was brought to nothing, i.e. liquidated. Serbs and Hungarians were together in the Middle Ages to defend the penetration of the Ottoman Empire in Europe. Serbs and Hungarians were also on opposite sides in World War I. In World War II, they were on opposite sides again. In 1991, we were largely involved in Vojvodina together. Today fate binds us again that we should live together in one Serbia, together in an EU where they have been for a long time, and we have yet to enter. Is this declaration a history review? I personally don't think so, but I also support the views of the MPs when they say there may have been room in the declaration of a broader front of the war crimes convictions, and even in these places, we had an example here from Mr. Michael to hear about one place, specifically, Curugu. Why is this so quick? Is that a question for the president of Hungary to come to us? Is it a date question? What exactly is the question of this declaration? Let's leave it to the court of history. Here, apparently, will have a majority to vote on this declaration. Are we going to have to bring a declaration again tomorrow? Are we going to open space now that this parliament has to respond to Bulgaria? Will we open the space to respond to Romania's national minority, according to whose citizens, i.e. According to those who have found that similar things have happened since 1944 and 1945 in some villages around Dimitrovgrad, perhaps around Zrenjanin, etc? When will someone in this congregation say – enough about these things and start judging crimes against our own? The same KPJ and then JNA, OZNA, UDBA, and what was already called, was largely punishable by Serbs who were found to have committed crimes against their own people. Respecting all of this, in 2011, I have this in front of me, we have passed the Rehabilitation Act, which we have begun this process, a general process for all innocent victims to be rehabilitated. Why jump out of one track of general rehabilitation? It's just that there are all kinds of questions being asked, and I'm going to ask one thing. Here and in the last term, we brought the Declaration of Srebrenica, Resolution. Will anyone ask – what about the Serbs at KIM? Is it possible that next year we're going to bring a declaration about them? Or might we have to apologize to Albania for using its territory during World War I, to cross it over to Greece? In any case, reconciliations are inevitable. It's true, as someone here says, goes to Europe, this is the 21st century, we shouldn't live in history, we shouldn't live in error. Why should only this parliament make steps for getting some dates or anything else? I fully understand the ruling majority and support its views in 99.9% of cases. There's something called - Serbian victims. A lot of people here mentioned a big raid. Serbian victims, victims of Serbs, Jews and Roma in Vojvodina were 50,000 people during that period of World War II. There was only about 12,000 for the big raid period. Only in three days in Novi Sad 1,300. Are we going to bid, as the head of one parliamentary opposition group said, here some other parliaments to apologize to the Serb people? I'm sure he won't. They don't care much about us. If that's what they wanted, they could've been doing all this with us. Are the results of the inter-academia commissions done? Do we know what historical facts are? Did someone finish it? Or maybe with this declaration we're going one step ahead, so we're judging ourselves in advance, calling for someone to seriously analyse what happened then? Why are we not giving decisions to the military authorities of the then FNRJ? I'll underline it the way I started my exposure. The Serbian and Hungarian people are no longer at odds. The criminals of Serbs who committed crimes against the Hungarian people have been punished. Have all the crimes that Hungarian criminals committed against the Serb people been punished? It should be on the conscience of the Hungarian state, the Hungarian peoples of the Hungarian national minority living in the state of Serbia. I have great respect for the need to bring this sort of thing in. It's just, do we choose the right time and do we have the right moment to do something like this - slap ourselves again? In any case, in the end, Serbian and Hungarian youths defended Yugoslavia in 1991. I believe that if there is once again the need for this state to defend itself, given that Vojvodina is still part of Serbia, it will also respond to mobilization, defend these premises, this state, and to honor us and our generations to judge history, to judge us, as we may have run ahead with this declaration.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19271	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19272	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really had no intention of answering that. I thank the chairman for letting me do this. I'll just say two sentences. By voting for this document that is before us today, I am voting in memory of all the victims and in Shakash, and in Pancheva, and Serbs, and Roma, and Jews and others, saying in a very clear way that the victims experienced by Hungarian citizens are the same victims as all the other victims. The big thing is that the Serbian Parliament is making a step forward, showing awareness of it, Serbia, the Serbian Parliament, the Serbs and us minorities living here, and thus giving strength to both the president of the state and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that in talks with everyone else in the world, it clearly tells them – we did it, you did the rest. I think all the victims are equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19273	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19274	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to choose words even more carefully than I usually do. I wanted to listen to the discussion of all my colleagues, not because I wanted to replicate to anyone. This day is not a chance. I wanted to feel and experience the atmosphere of today's debate. If you ask me, are the duchy Hungarians happy and satisfied that today is on the agenda of the National Assembly for a declaration of condemnation of acts against the civilian Hungarian population in Vojvodina committed in 1944 and 1945? Whether the duchess Hungarians are happy and satisfied, I will say that they are not, not because they expected more, but because of these events almost 70 years ago, not today, and because of the condemnation of these events, no one can be happy or satisfied. I am sure the duchy Hungarians feel peace and calm and gratitude because the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been discussing this declaration today. I want to thank everyone who participated in this debate. I agree with 80% of the claims made. I can argue that the time has come for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to discuss this subject, to adopt this declaration. I feel lucky and contented to have been a member of the Parliament on the day that the Assembly adopted, I hope, this declaration. I would like to thank Nebojsa Stefanovic in the first place for accepting that he should be a representative of the proposings today in this debate. I think it is given even more in importance and it is a good thing that the speaker of the assembly was a representative. I want to thank the SNS for being with us SVM deputies of this proposal declaration. In advance, I would like to thank everyone who will support this declaration in the voting day. Those who think that this text declaration should not be supported, there is absolutely nothing against them. In this National Assembly, everyone votes by conscience, belief, and those who think this text is not for support will according to their beliefs or party beliefs to vote. I would like to say that as early as 14 October 2010 in this National Assembly, I was talking about the lives of Hungarians from 1944 to 1945 and the "New Zealand raid". We never talked about these things as a party for day-to-day political reasons. In two cases, I was talking about these very black and difficult facts, and I have both pointed out that our political goal is to adopt the declaration, as will happen today. Believe that the Hungarians this day, these moments were expected for a little over 70 years. I think the National Assembly is doing a great thing by adopting this declaration. We've never bid numbers. We've never classified victims by nationality or anything else. For us, it is absolutely acceptable to amend the DS that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia condemns the deaths of all other innocent victims during and after World War II in the Vojvodina area. I think that sentence covers all victims regardless of their nationality in the Vojvodina area during and after World War II. The question is whether piety and dignity should take place today in a time of 70 years ago and try to prove whether these 40-year-old Serbs or Hungarians or Hungarians or Serbs died more. But since today this declaration of condemnation of acts against the civilian Hungarian population in Vojvodina was made in 1944 to 1945, may I have done so at the beginning, to speak of several indisputables, I would like to underline the indisputable, historical facts. I've been holding in my hand one document since January 29, 1945. This document was brought by the State Commission to determine the crimes of the occupier and their assistants. At the end of this decision, the following is said, unnecessarily I will leave out, the Committee for the Identification of Crimes of Occupiers and their Assistants in Vojvodina – estimating on the basis of Article 19. The regulation establishes that all, undermining all, residents of the Hungarian nationalities of the Municipality of Curug, Srež, Žabljsko in Vojvodina are responsible as perpetrators, incentivists or helpers for the crimes referred to in Article 18. The regulations, based on Article 3 of that Regulation, declare them war criminals, the end of the quote. All inhabitants of the municipality of Curug, Srež, Frogljsko, Vojvodina. This case treats point two of our declarations. There was another decision like this when all residents of a particular nationality, a certain populated place, began from babies to the elderly were declared war criminals. I'm talking about this because there's no dilemma whether this declaration has an object or whether it's made-up stuff or whether it's a history review. The first point of our declaration treats all those victims who have been shot, deprived of freedom or some other rights without even such decisions based on the principle of collective responsibility or as stated in this decision, according to the termology of that time, common guilt. This is what we're talking about by not wanting to reduce the victims of a Serb or any other nation, the peoples of World War II in our fields. Many individual cases could be discussed. In Bačka, Vojvodina, you have no inhabited place where Hungarians lived at the time where people were not killed without any judicial or administrative decision of nationality. I most agree with those who speak of the basic principle of the existence of the legal system for millenniums, which is an injustice that is not corrected by injustice. There were talks on the Inter-Academia Mixed Commission for the Determination of Facts on the territory of the AP Vojvodina from 1941 to 1948. I would like to say that this Inter-Academia Mixed Commission was formed on the initiative of the Hungarian parties from Vojvodina, that the presidents of the two Academy of Science and Arts were asked by the then presidents of Hungary and Serbia to form this Inter-Academia Mixed Commission. At the time, the president of the Republic was Boris Tadic. On this occasion I want to thank him, as I thanked Nebojsa Stefanovic and SNS for everything you have done to come to this day. We want to be objective and no one should think that history begins with him, so neither do we. This Inter-Academia Commission has its own official website, an Internet presentation. Not only are the names of the victims listed there, but also the data, date of birth, occupation, etc. All the people who were killed, all the innocent victims, regardless of their nationality. There are 16,000 people in that database right now. I think that if there are 16,000 people in one base, and the inter-academic mixed commission started working in 2011, so if in two years the data was collected for 16,000 victims, then it can't be talked about that these things are made up and there's no need to close the tragic chapter of the common history of Serbs and Hungarians. Someone mentioned that after this declaration, Churug would become the place of only Hungarian casualties. That, thank God, is simply not true and it does not correspond to the truth and that is what I want to say for the sake of the public and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. A monument for Hungarian victims, funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, is being built in Curug these days. It also reconstructed and reconstructed the building in which Serbs were killed in 1942, and it is called Topal's warehouse, which is being reconstructed from the Hungarian state's funds. I think it's so correct and consistent with civilizational fluids. I hope that the reconstruction of this facility and the construction of monuments for both Serbian and Hungarian victims will be completed within a few days and that, in accordance with the agreement between the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Tomislav Nikolic and the president of Hungary, Mr Janos Ader, there will be a joint offering to innocent victims of Serbian and Hungarian nationality. I think it is a good time to adopt this declaration and I want to say that this has absolutely nothing to do with state interests regarding Serbia's progress on the way to the EU. This moment, as I said, was expected by the Vojvodjan Hungarians for almost 70 years, and I think that certain circumstances had to be created, which is why we together with the SNS have submitted this proposal to the declaration and we hope for the great majority in voting day. I would also like to thank all the MPs and MPs who have supported calling for this session today, because SNS and SVM do not have enough signatures to call for this session and we are grateful to all those MPs who have signed the MPs so that we can discuss this declaration today, so as not to wait for October, when a regular session begins. In the end, I would like to thank my colleagues Dijana Vukomanovic, a colleague of Zlati Djeric and colleagues, Predrag Markovic, for the extraordinary discussions. I ask you to, hopefully within a few minutes, as much as possible to adopt a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the condemnation of acts against the civilian Hungarian population in Vojvodina committed in 1944-1945, a text which is not directed against any people and which, I mean, on the declaration, respects absolutely all innocent victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-21-0.u19275	Does anyone else want a word that hasn't used their right to Article 96? Rules of Procedure? (No) On the basis of Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a single search on the proposal for a declaration. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the proposal for a declaration. Since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on the only item on the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Friday, 21 June 2013, starting at 16.40 minutes, as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the sixth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, before we move to a decision-making session on the agenda, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present, and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We move to a decision on the 1st point of the agenda – Proposal for a DECLARATION OF THE National COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA on the condemnation of acts against CIVIL MAJARIAN POSITIONS IN THE VOVODINA, which have been committed since 1944. By 1945. THE year that the National Assembly conducted a unique search, we move on to a decision. I am voting on the Proposal for a Declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the condemnation of acts against the civilian Hungarian population in Vojvodina, committed from 1944 to 1945, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 114, against – 11 abstentions – there are no, 18 of the 143 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal for a declaration in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments made. The text of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People Gordana Komic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –35, against – four abstentions – no, 104 of the 143 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The text of the amendment's proposal was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – five abstentions – there is no vote, 11 of the total 144 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Since we have come to the conclusion of the amendments, we approach the vote on the proposal for a declaration in general. I am voting on the Proposal for a Declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the condemnation of acts against the civilian Hungarian population in Vojvodina, committed from 1944 to 1945, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, v – ten, abstention – there is no vote, seven of the 145 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted the proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the condemnation of acts against the civilian Hungarian population in Vojvodina, committed from 1944 to 1945. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of and decision-making of the session's single agenda, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013.
