ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26525	Mr. Chairman, my question will be addressed to the Serbian Prime Minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic, as an assessment of the Serbian Renewal Movement – the Democratic Party of Serbia, the necessity of a new model of economic policy and a new model of organisations of various state services, which, by their inefficient actions, affecting the deepening of the crisis or the maintenance of the crisis, and we all know that the economic situation in the country is very bad and the Serbian Movement of Reconstruction – the Democratic Party of Serbia was the most critical of the government's lack of accountability in the spending of public funds, organised chaos in public finances, the filling of subsidies to businesses, which were absolutely nothing, minor controls were there, the spending of these subsidies. We felt that there was a need to better control the funding from the Development Fund, let's say the Development Fund only had 60 employees, the maltenes of no control nor the previous, nor the compensation was around the spending of huge funds, and we felt, of course, that much more subsidies had to be given to Serbian agriculture, which is our largest export business branch, but still in a very, very difficult position and seemed increasingly difficult to us. Privatisation has completely turned into its opposite, the majority of the company is either closed, or in a very poor state, and the unemployment rate is increasing. However, what we consider to be one of the main causes of creating and maintaining the black market is inefficient and corrupt work of customs services. The high degree of corruption enables virtually any control of the work of customs services, because for now they have internal control that has been networked and tied to customs officials for decades and in our view requires external and internal control of the work of customs services, because there are many flows of goods through customs, without records, or with a reduction of customs rates, which directly reflects major losses in the budget, but also on the security of the country. According to us customs is a key link in the legalisation of the flow of unsolicited goods, and the circulation of goods on the black market takes place through two basic ways. Either the goods got in without record through customs, or they were due through phantom companies. Therefore, it is necessary to control and disable the work of those who illegally supply the market and earn huge illegal money. The inspection services should control not only the traffic of goods through customs, but the transport of goods, to compare the documentation from customs and the documentation from the warehouse. That's why my question to Prime Minister Ivica Dacic is. What will the Government of the Republic of Serbia do to establish an inside and external control of the work of customs services? What will the government do to coordinate the work of inspection services, which will control goods and documentation from customs from transport and warehouses and thus avoid major losses in the Republic of Serbia's budget, at a time when this is not a simple post-war crisis, and this is the biggest economic crisis we face since World War II? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26526	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Ranka Savik.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26527	Thank the chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I will address the issue to the government of the Republic of Serbia, or to the prime minister, but also to the minister of business. Lately, we have been witnessing that numerous protests, strikes and roadblocks have been organised in Serbia. This is what workers do in restructure companies. I think it's totally illusory to talk about whether their dissatisfaction is justified or not, it's absolutely justified, extremely small profits, about 25,000 dinars on average, and profits are late and a half a year, these workers don't have health insurance, but what's much worse, it's the complete imperceptibility of these people. Contacting them and visiting and protesting and strikes and blockades, what surprised me as well is the fact that, in addition to this social moment, all these people are most complaining that they have no information, what will happen to their businesses, whether they will survive, and whether they will eventually be shut down and liquidated. What concerns is the fact that the Serbian government has no analysis of the situation in these companies, no analysis of the market situation, and no need for Serbia. Finally, which of these companies have a product intended for the market, which of these companies can actually survive? So, this must be done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry, and then, after an analysis and projection of their survival, clearly to come before the employees of this company, therefore, to make lists and say – these companies have no perspective, they go into bankruptcy and liquidation. These companies have a product, they can survive, the state will invest in these companies to help revitalise them. I think that's the least the government of the Republic of Serbia owes these people, workers, employees of these companies, who have absolutely no blame for being brought into a state where they are today. This is also important because of the planning of these people's lives, because of their future, because of attempts at the end of the line, by taking severance, to run some of their small businesses, or to try to find work elsewhere. I would like to refer the second question to the prime minister, so to the government of the Republic of Serbia and to the selection of members of the supervisory board, the chairman of the supervisory board, as well as the president of the company's assembly, which is in the jurisdiction of the state. So, those appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I am also interested in my question – what are the criteria for selecting members of the Supervisory Board or the chairman of the Supervisory Board, which criteria are the government's handling to appoint this and that, as a member of the Supervisory Board? I am truly afraid that the only criterion is political belonging, that there is no concern at all about whether anyone has expertise, whether they can even participate in the work of that supervisory board. Many complaints have come to me in this very sense, workers are extremely unhappy with the selection of members of the Supervisory Board, and even they argue that many of them do not even know what the basic activity of the companies they have come to as members of the Supervisory Board is. The final case is the appointment of the former director... to be the president of this company's assembly. This is about Mr. Slobodan Kopanja, the man who was removed from the director's post... , who regularly took a severance note that was not even small, which at least according to the media, against whom the proceedings were being conducted. (President: Time.) ) I ask the question – what are the criteria for selecting members and chairman of the Supervisory Board, president of the company's assembly in the jurisdiction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26528	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26529	I thank the chairman. On behalf of the URS parliamentary group, I ask the prime minister, as well as the interior minister, the minister of industry, the minister of traffic, as well as the minister of labour, employment and social policy. My question is short, but given everything that's happened in the past few days and weeks, I'm not sure the answer is simple. My question is, why aren't the school cars working in Serbia and when are the car schools going to start working? In the previous period, we have witnessed that various problems are happening in Serbia regarding our schools, and unfortunately we are already used to such problems, regardless of whether they concern those major schools, the colleges with which students send us messages that it is high time to deal with the fact that there is no harmony between what Bologna requires of them and the conditions provided to them in colleges. On the other hand, we have another problem with another school, indeed something smaller, but much more important than many schools in Serbia, the problem with Petnica. In some ways, we have easily forgotten and avoided all the consequences that he can leave behind. Someone may say in relation to these major problems that the problem with car schools is not a problem, but the fact that since 25 October of this year 900 car schools, 900 business entities in Serbia have put a lock on their doors, that 4,000 people working in those 900 car schools in Serbia are not being affected and that 50,000 youth students have interrupted their training and lost the ability to pass a driving test. I am sure that at this point, neither in this hall nor anywhere in Serbia, no one is opposed to increasing traffic safety on our roads. What is more, we are all in favour of increasing that security, given all those unloved scenes that we watch in black chronicles every day, where lives are lost by a large number of young people and we all expect and we expected that reform in the field of auto-training of these driving exams will bring about a certain shift. However, all that has been happening in the past few weeks clearly indicates that all those responsible for not doing so were not doing well on this assignment. As I was saying, part of the car school isn't working right now, and right now there's a shooting scene, one general media war between the M.O.P. and a representative of the car schools. The interior ministry, more specifically their representatives, resents car schools for not using the period since May last year to adapt, to remove all those obstacles and to comply with their work with the regulation that the ministry then brought. They said that car schools mainly based their work and their energy on making as much profit as possible and including as many people in training as possible under the old program. On the other hand, the car schools do not remain in their debt, so they remind them that since the 2010 Transport Safety Act was passed, the ministry has failed to comply with the deadlines and that it has largely been late for each task in respect of those deadlines. Car schools also ask why the date of termination of the work permit is set on the same date when the deadline for submission of applications for extension is due and thus on 25 October we came into the situation and were put before the final act of 900 car schools in Serbia to close their doors. Car schools also warn that most of the requirements of this Regulation are prescribed from some regulations of other countries with a much higher standard, and that very little respect for professional, scientific practice and that most of these requirements, in our case, are not applicable. Also, car schools suggest that some of the requirements in the regulations do not depend on the car schools themselves, such as obtaining a location for polygons that depend on local administration, and we are all aware of how slow the local administration is and how much brake it represents. On the other hand, the MUP reminds that car schools are not sufficiently theoretically ready and do not want to deal with the theory, which, of course, requires them. Car schools retaliate that even the state authorities have not met all the requirements they have prescribed themselves in their own regulations, which, of course, the MUP has confessed in recent days. Also, the car school reminds us that the renewal fee of 80.000,00 dinars is too high and while the war between the car schools lasts, 50,000 of our fellow citizens are in suspense waiting for what happens. Four thousand car school employees are waiting for what to do with their jobs. My question to the government, ministers, first of all to the Ministry of Interior, but also to the Minister of Economy who is responsible for fighting for every job in this country at the moment, is when will this agony stop and when will the work of 900 car schools in Serbia begin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26530	Thank you. The word is made by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26531	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have witnessed that for months in Vukovar, anti-Serb orgy has lasted, culminating in September, breaking the board with Cyrillic inscriptions. The opponent of the Cyrillic and the destroyers joined them or gave them support, without delay, to the general public opinion of Croatia, all the media, many politicians, a complete Catholic Claire, but those politicians of the type of Croatian prime minister, who did not exactly support this, prayed for a little generosity, as if it were a matter of right to use their own letter, a Cyrillic letter, in the case of Serbs in Croatia, more specifically in Vukovar, an old man of some trust, not a matter of law, both the law of the EU and Croatian laws. But it's not all those who side with the destroyers. On the side of the destroyers, in a way, the EU has also stopped, which is telling Mr Abbott through its own subpar, that the EU will not interfere in Croatia's internal affairs on the bilingual inscriptions. So the Serb minority and its rights in Croatia, which is an EU member, are not at all interested in Brussels. In order to avoid law enforcement, Vukovar was declared a special pietite, and the pie seems to be in the way of a Cyrillic, Cyrillic letter, and would say Serbs are in the way. You know, ladies and gentlemen, it usually starts like this. First they kill your ass, then they burn your house down, then they tear down your life, so if you're lucky, you manage to escape. A Cyrillic has just been killed in Vukovar, and Serbs in Croatia and Vukovar have been told – if you want to survive, assimilate, or if you don't like assimilation, pick up your clothes and move out. What does the state of Serbia do while this agony lasts? The state of Serbia is bringing Croatian President Josipovic into this parliament just to make him a Plezer as if there were no open issues between Croatia and the Serbian state and the people. In Serbia, local Croats who, for example, live in northern Bačka, speak Croatian, write in Latin, and speak in this new Croatian language that I, as a Serbian woman in Croatia, had not spoken in 40 years ago, which is the type - in the atmosphere, during May, promotion, opposition, etc. I personally don't mind. Serbs in Croatia are no different from Croats in language. They're forced to speak with this new speech, but now they've lost their right to write with their own letter, which is a Cyrillic letter. I ask therefore high-ranking state officials, I ask the prime minister, the first Deputy Prime Minister and head of state, what will they do to defend Serbs in Croatia, that Serbs in Croatia can exercise their, and Croatian and EU laws, guaranteed rights? I would say that Serbia's right and obligation to continuously demand the full capacity of status guaranteed to Serbs in Croatia. The only reaction she made was the diaspora office. Ms. Slavka Draskovic is a valid woman. However, its political weight does not push to the point where this problem should be solved, which is Brussels. So I ask – when will our own-restraint triumvirate Dacic-Vučić-Nikolic address Brussels and ask to protect the rights of the Serb people in Croatia? In fact, the people of the border are only the remains of one exiled people, who have been expelled in recent history. Half a million people have been expelled, and now not only the Cyrillics, not the property rights, but the rights guaranteed as human rights. Most recently, their right to their dwellings is also disputed. Since our state isn't responding, then they showed up this morning and the graphites and some aphis in Zagreb with monkeys, with a spoon... (President: Time.) I'm done. I would just say – as long as Serbian authorities have the EU priority, so far as Serbs in Croatia, refugees and Serbs in Serbia cannot expect any improvement, because the EU is not a partner, it is a tutor to the Serbian political elite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26532	The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26533	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will ask a few questions to the Serbian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and before that, I will express my regret that since 2001, until 2012, no government in Serbia has led an active support and care policy for Serbs in Croatia, both refugees and exiled Serbs. Croatia passed in 2002 a constitutional law on the rights of national minorities, which guarantees the free use of Serbian language and Cyrillic letters in all those municipalities where Serb participation is over 33%. Unfortunately, neither Mr Kostunica's government nor Mr Cvetkovic's government raised the issue in talks with the Croatian government. Unfortunately, neither Mr Kostunica's government nor Mr Cvetkovic's government has sought permanent dialogue that more than 300,000 expelled Serbs living in Serbia, a large number in Republika Srpska and a large number in third countries, put these issues on the agenda and be the topic of dialogue between official Zagreb and Belgrade. Unfortunately, President Nikolic and Prime Minister Dacic's government remained to solve the problem after being frozen for 11 years. Since 2001, there has been a policy of false reconciliation across the back of Serbs in Croatia, over the back of refugees and exiled Serbs and, of course, it is not possible that after 11 years these problems can be solved immediately. We strongly welcomed the arrival of Croatian President Josipovic, talks with President Nikolic. We welcomed the address of Croatian President Josipovic to our parliament, because we believe this is an act of maturity and tolerance for the Serbian side. Of course we will expect in the coming period and Serbian President Nikolic to address the Croatian Parliament. I think that's the way to approach these things. I will say in particular a few problems where I expect our foreign ministry to ask for an explanation from the Croatian Foreign Ministry. The first concerns refugees and exiled Serbs who receive pensions from Croatia. Croatia has set a deadline of 31 October until all Croatian pensioners have to deliver so-called personal identification number or OIB. We think it was short notice. A good part of our pensioners failed to deliver the necessary documents, and this is a complete request and a certified copy of the ID or passport. We believe that our Ministry of Foreign Affairs should ask the Croatian side to extend the deadline for the OIB assignment, while using the so-called ". A life certificate. We even have the case of Ms. Danica Dimitrijevic, who sent an application for the OIB on April 27th of this year from post office in Mirieva. Only in mid-October, five and a half months later, did she respond that her request for the OIB was seized. We fear that there are a lot of abuses, that the Tax Administration of Croatia is not doing so with the dynamics it should be doing. Therefore, we ask our ministry to request that the deadline for the OIB's allocation be extended in the talks with Zagreb. Another problem is the issue of the residence of our people in Croatia. On December 29th last year, Croatia passed the Housing Act, where it determined that three categories of citizens could have a Croatian ID card. These are those who are in the reconstruction process, in the housing process or live for at least three months in the territory of Croatia. We asked that our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in talks with Zagreb, ask that all refugees and exiled Serbs be treated with a Croatian return programme from 1998 and shown from the Croatian side of tolerance in the coming years until the refugees and exiled Serbs finally resolve their issues and decide where they will live. At the same time, I must say that we have information and that we know that a significant number of Serbian citizens also have two ID cards – both Serbian and Croatian. Serbia doesn't cause a problem here. We agree that Serbia should not cause a problem, but expect reciprocity, we also expect the Croatian side to do the same. We recently organised a special session of the Diaspora and Serbs Committee in the region related to the situation of Serbs in the Federation of BiH. I want to say that the position of Serbs in the Federation of BiH is very difficult, that Serbs in the Federation of BiH are citizens of the second order. It is a particularly difficult situation in Serbian municipalities in the West Krajina, Glamoc, Grahovo, Bosnian Petrovac and Drvar. (President: Time.) I'm done. One of the demands of the participants in the special session, the head of these municipalities, Serbian MPs in the BiH Assembly and the Federation of BiH parliament, is to open a Serbian consulate in Drvar. The measure would significantly encourage Serbs living in those parts. I appeal to our foreign ministry to see the possibility of opening the Serbian Consulate in Drvar within a reasonable time period and thus facilitating the position of Serbs in that part of the Federation of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26534	The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26535	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as an MP from the Kings, I would like to ask a question on behalf of 1300 residents of the settlement on Dosite Street in the King. It is a working village built by workers of the Kraljevo plane factory and Magnochroma, which was also affected by an earthquake that took place in the Kingdom on 3 November 2010. Before that earthquake, tenants, primarily workers of these companies, lived in extremely difficult conditions, unworthy modern man. Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, dear colleagues, enough to say that there was a room in these buildings and today there is one single toilet on the floor and that only toilet uses more families. The government led by the DS at the end of 2010, after the event, when it became clear that it was impossible to revitalise, or reconstruct the settlement and these buildings, decided to enter into an arrangement with the Central Bank of the Council of Europe and the European Investment Bank and to deal with these two institutions from the funds already intended, among other things, and for these purposes, provide funds for the urban regeneration of this settlement, which would solve the problem of another part of South Bogdan Street, citizens who also live in unworthy conditions. Procedures of activities have been initiated to collect truly extensive documentation. Citizens' survey was conducted, checks were carried out, property-legal relations were resolved and after the long process, significant documentation was collected. When the 2013 budget was passed, the government tried to throw out a guarantee for the construction, i.e. the regeneration of this settlement and the 2013 budget, it was not intended to provide funds, i.e. a guarantee for urban regeneration. After a reaction from the citizens of the Kings, the public, us from the DS, then the finance minister and the Finance Committee accepted the amendment and the arrangement was entered into the 2013 budget. The activities of the finalisation of this project have been continued. All necessary documentation has been collected. There's been a lot of trouble. Officials also changed to the C.E.B. Finally, when all this extensive work was completed, the CEB delegation was in the Kingdom, in the city administration and found that everything necessary was collected to authorise the transfer of funds. On November 1st this year, therefore, the other day, Velimir Ilic told the King that he would not sign this agreement because the tenants were reportedly greedy and could not agree on who wanted to live downstairs. It was one pointless answer why there was no signing this contract, that there was no project. He knows that it takes almost a million euros for the project to be developed, because it is a large square, and it is really clear then that there is no political will to solve this problem. We had a problem like this last year. And that's when the finance minister showed his understanding. That guarantee is included in the budget. We got a budget proposal the day before yesterday. There is no guarantee of 1,300 inhabitants on Dosite Street. That's why there's money for all sorts of other unnecessary things, and that's what we DS have been saying for months, that money is spent needlessly, to borrow. More than five billion have been borrowed so far, and that money has gone to some pointless consumption, some megalomaniac projects that will never be completed. I submitted an amendment to this draft budget for 2014 and asked for this guarantee to be included in it. I ask the government of the Republic of Serbia who made the decision, or who authorized Velimir Ilic to refuse the signing of this arrangement, and who took away the possibility for Dosite Street citizens to live normally? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26536	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Jovana Mehandzic Djurdzic, Gordana Comic, Olgica Batic, Ivan Bauer and Neven Cvetican. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the representatives of Proposer Nikola Selakovic, Minister of Justice and State Administration, I have also called on the sittings to be attended by Mr Milisav Coguric, Assistant Minister of Justice and State Administration. We continue to work on the agenda and move on to a common principle and uniform search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 5, 14, 15, 16, 17, 41 and 42 of the agenda. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on drafts of the agenda under points 5, 14, 15, 16, 17, 41 and 42, and before the opening of a joint principle and uniform search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament, which you have in favour. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code; Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Confirmation of Evidence in Civil and Commercial Matters; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Belarus on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters and Proposal for a Law confirming the Fourth Additional Protocol under the European Convention on Extradition. At the same time, I remind you that the Government has withdrawn from the procedure the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants. Does MP Zoran Babic and proposing representative Nikola Selakovic, minister of justice and state administration, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26537	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, the SNS referred to the draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code in the assembly procedure. In this way we want to point out all the problems and damage caused by theft in electricity, telecommunications, water systems and public traffic systems. We believe that Serbia, as a society, must not turn its head to the other side when we encounter a water or sewage shaft from which the lid has been stolen. I don't think we should stay silent or give a day's sentence when a monument to Hungarian victims disappears in Subotica. We must not remain silent and unresponsive to a monument being and ending up being cut up at some waste because of the small profits of those who have no awareness of the importance and cultural goods and of the goods under protection, but also of the importance of the property of public enterprises and what the property is making and means to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The damage that seems to be done can be direct and it is measurable, and the amount of funds, and in a report four public enterprises, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia, which I own and which I have brought, is truly devastating. In four years, the public power grids of Serbia had direct damage of 23,19rr.2 dinars, only stealing at the trafo stations of the Public Enterprise, "Electro Networks of Serbia". This trend of theft is growing from year to year. This is how SNS wants to mobilize our society. That is why we came to parliament with a bill on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code to change criminal policy, to ask for the support of all political parties in this House, to ask for the support of our entire society, because only by mobilising can we keep these funds in public enterprises and keep as property of the state of Serbia and of all its citizens, but also to be no shame that in one country monuments end up in waste. This isn't the only report. The public power grids of Serbia are only through the theft of diagonals, and these are steel L profiles with direct damage of 91m dinars for the period 2008 and for the first six months of 2013. The theft of these diagonals, i.e. steel L profiles, led to the fall of longline pillars, which occurred on the longline direction of Shid – Martinovci and on the long-running direction of Sokobanja – Aleksinac, when four longline pillars fell. Because of the theft of several diagonals, because of the profits of several hundred or several thousand dinars, if profits can be called theft or theft by profit, there has been a fall in longline pillars. In this way thousands and tens of thousands of Serbian citizens lost power, hospitals ran out of electricity, people treated in those hospitals, their lives were risked. Should our society's response be toiling or changing the Criminal Code? In this way, many who were taking such acts or misdemeanors risked their lives. Many, unfortunately, have lost their lives in the theft of copper cables in trafo stations. They risked not only their lives, they risked their lives and those who were in the area at the time, which could be ordinary people, Serbian citizens. Explosion and destruction of a 440 kilowatt trafo station, damage to Serbia's Elektroprivreda, and thus the entire economy and the whole state, has a 1m-euro loss. Serbia's electricity industry, also in a growing trend since 2008, and all of the dependent companies, i.e. companies whose founder is the Elektroprivreda of Serbia, I mean the Elektro-division of Belgrade, Elektro-Serbija, Yugoslavia and the Centre, have suffered direct damage from thefts at facilities of 349,265.120 dinars. One of the biggest losers is the public company Zeleznica Serbia, with the biggest losses to theft. For the past six years in 10,296 identified and established thefts, the damage suffered by the Serbian Railways amounted to a billion 553 million 622 thousand dinars. Telekom also has major problems with the theft of equipment. This theft may be theft of underground installations, theft of underground installations and theft at MTS stations. Thousands of citizens of Serbia in the 21st century, because of the theft of several metres of copper wire, remained without internet connection for days. That's the most banignant. What about the important defense systems, the police, that were thus left without access to information systems? All of this is just because of a mild criminal policy. So far, such cases have been prosecuted according to Article. 203 and 204. Criminal code, that is, theft and heavy theft. Criminal charges have also been filed for the criminal offence of damage or destruction of public devices referred to in Article 279. The criminal code, but for the same, no procedures have been initiated for reasons that are not cumulatively met the conditions that make up this act. It was very often, although those reports were most often filed against the 'nn' perpetrators, but even when they were directly found in the doing of this crime, they were rarely released and released on the same day and returned to the same place on the same day to finish that job that they had started hours earlier. The Serbian Progressive Party proposes changes in the article. 204, 221, 279, 280 and 290. Criminal code. We want to send a clear message to everyone in that food chain, from those who are direct perpetrators and direct perpetrators, who will take that few meters of cable or that lid, sewer or water supply, or that monument, not take it home, they don't need it, take it to some waste and because of several thousand dinars, because of the irresponsible persons who work on these wastes, who are the owners of these wastes, we have a situation like this right now. In this way, we suggest that the clear and serious criminal policy punish the direct perpetrators of these crimes be increased and that it be at an interval of one to eight years, and for those who conceal, who buy, resell and participate in that food chain, call diets, that they be given a legal penalty of six months to five years. The Serbian Progressive Party is seeking and expecting the support of all parliamentary groups in the Republika Srpska parliament, but we are seeking support in our society not to turn our heads on these acts or on Sundays, but to stop this trend to the greatest extent possible by means of joint actions. What was personally devastating to me when I read the reports of these four public enterprises, when I saw that the level of theft in the past few years was in this way not accusing anyone, not the previous ones, not these present ones, or those future ones, because I know for sure that everything did not happen, but it was devastating for me personally – did we have to be irresponsible, did we have to close our eyes to a few billion dinars that were spent to repair direct damages from theft on those supplies? Couldn't that money have been used better? Couldn't that money make schools, kindergartens, create new jobs, run a better social policy? Except that we have returned those "el" profiles or those lids, but without a clear legal message, without a clear mobilization of our society, those who once did it will also work in the future. I thank you and hope that you will support this initiative of the SNS that is life and in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26538	Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) The word of the Messenger of the people is Balint the Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26539	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the 16th, 17th century are increasingly thinking, writing and talking about the fundamental purpose of the state's existence as a protection of citizens' interests. That is why I find it extremely important that the Criminal Code is amended in a few days. I would like to give unequivocal support to the bill submitted by the SNS parliamentary group. In the later period of my discussion, I will ask several questions and the president of the SNS parliamentary group and the honourable minister - why is there only this proposal on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, and not amendments and additions to the Criminal Code submitted by other opposition MPs? I want to remind the National Assembly, though I have not checked these days, but in my memory, at this point in the assembly procedure, there are at least three proposals on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, and all these proposals have been tabled by MPs belonging to opposition MPs. To return to the subject of today's discussion, which is the bill submitted by the SNS parliamentary group. The Union of Duke Hungarians supports the expansion of the incrimination of heavy theft even though the stolen property is a public device for water, sewerage, gas heat, electricity or other energy or public transport and communications systems, regardless of the value of stolen goods. We think that in all cases where the objects of the crime are these items, these mentioned things the social danger of this crime cannot be questioned regardless of the material value of these items, or these things. That is why we believe that you are right, Mr. Babic, when you say that a clear signal should be sent to the potential perpetrators of these crimes, as well as to the former perpetrators of criminal offences, and also to the public prosecutors, or judges who bring judgment on such crimes. Of course, we must also talk about the future, because the criminal code cannot and should not be applied, it must not be retroactively applied. So in the future, these crimes will be treated differently if the objects are different infrastructure objects regardless of the material value of stolen items, or objects. Also, I have to say for the sake of truth and precision, to sincerely thank you for mentioning the monument stolen just over two weeks ago in Subotica. It was erected in 1944 in Subotica in memory of innocent victims, civilians, Hungarian, Serbian, Croatian and Jewish belongings that were executed without any court ruling in 1944 and 1945. It was or it was a "Bird of broken wings", it's a name, name of a monument. For the sake of truth, I must say that so far the applicable Criminal Code has predicted, that is, the theft of monuments as a heavy theft regardless of the material value of monuments, or cultural goods as formulated in the Criminal Code. At first, I thought this solution would be introduced with these amendments and the additions to the law, but that's not the case. So, so far the applicable criminal laws that apply today predict that the perpetrator of the theft of monuments is being punished by prison from one to eight years, regardless of materiality, I underline it, regardless of the materiality of the monument. Nevertheless, this debate is a great opportunity to send a signal to potential perpetrators of a serious theft, when the subject is, when the object is stealing a monument. I hope that everyone will understand that the state will be more determined to deal with the perpetrators of these crimes, which, of course, applies to the theft of various infrastructure facilities, and they are subject to the amendment and addition of the Criminal Code. We welcome also the changes in relation to the crime of destroying or damaging public devices and the criminal act of endangering public traffic by dangerous action and dangerous means, as well as the criminal act of concealment. So, once again, we will support these amendments and the amendments to the law in the voting day, but also remain questions, and I hope that it will not be treated as rhetorical issues and that we will get an answer from Mr. Minister – why are these amendments and additions to the laws passed by one parliamentary group? Why is it that when these problems are so big and deep and they're already there for many years? Why didn't the Justice Department react in the previous period? The issue is not only asked to Mr Selakovic, the current minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, but also to former ministers in the previous governments of the Republic of Serbia. We think that a long time ago should have responded and amended the Criminal Code, because we believe that the Criminal Code in one country should be in line with real needs, with real life. It is not normal, it is really not normal to endanger the safety of Serbian citizens due to theft of various tracks, connections, screws, etc. I mentioned earlier that according to my knowledge, there are at least three other draft laws on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code in the congregation procedure in the National Assembly. The question arises as to what will be the fate of these proposed amendments and additions. One parliamentary group suggested, for example, that a criminal legal institute should be defined in another way as a necessary defence. It's not our parliamentary group, but I do know that there is one such proposal for amendments and additions to the Criminal Code. Our parliamentary group has proposed amending and supplementing the Criminal Code and supplementing the Law on Public Order and Peace. I know, Mr Selakovic, that this law does not belong to your jurisdiction but to the jurisdiction of the MUP, but we think that the Criminal Code and the Law on Public Order and Peace should be amended in the interest of the property of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia being fully protected. We propose, the SVM parliamentary group proposes that the so-called SVM be introduced in Serbia as well. to the head of zero tolerance for theft. We think it is necessary to protect the full assets of Serbian citizens, that this is the main purpose of every state and that we cannot remain silent in the situation when our fellow citizens enter the courtyard every day, especially in the nursing home, when everything and everything is stolen, and it happens from day to day, but it is not seen as a crime scene. That is why our fellow citizens in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia are bitter, afraid, in fear and simple state should send a clear signal and should protect the property of these citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I think that the matter of criminal law is a living organism and that we should launch a comprehensive reform of our criminal legislation, because there are certain solutions in many anachrons. I also mentioned the criminal legal regulation of the institute of the necessary defense. I also mentioned petty thefts. We have a huge problem with juvenile delinquency, of course it's not just the subject of the Criminal Code. I believe that all of us in the country should be aware that the protection of human rights, of course, is an unequivocal goal and should be a very important goal for all of us, but people of, say, 13 years ago today are not at the same level of psychophysical development that 13-year-olds were at 30 or 40 years ago and that in these days, the perpetrators of certain crimes, very serious crimes, and 30 or 40 years ago, for various reasons, it was unimaginable for people of 12, 13 years of age, to commit such serious crimes. The state remains gone and citizens are simply not protected. I think that general prevention is very important and that this is why I support all those who say that they should send clear signals to the perpetrators and potential perpetrators. Let me go back to this bill of ours on March 8th of the current year. We suggest that zero tolerance be introduced for theft. We know that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is well aware that citizens, regardless of their nationality and regardless of what area of the Republic of Serbia, have started self-organizing against the perpetrators of these so-called. petty thefts. We think it is extremely dangerous and we condemn it and always point out that we are absolutely against the self-organization of citizens and the introduction of so-called. Civil guards. Also, people should not be surprised if citizens feel from day to day that the state is not responding, then they are looking for other solutions. I don't condone the self-organization and establishment of civilian guards. On this occasion, I again appeal to the citizens not to do so and condemn all those who organise from some day-to-day political needs of the civilian guard but I ask Mr. Minister and the National Assembly to respond to these phenomena and to do something in the interest of the full protection of citizens' property. You know exactly what the citizens say. It is very positive that the government has publicly said that there will be no tolerance for tax evasion, there will be no tolerance for corruption, but why then the state, or representatives of the state, look at the shrunk hands that come into the yard and steal from them every day or every other day something worth 3,000 or 4,000 dinars. At this point in Serbia, there are about half a million pensioners living under 15,000 dinars. I must say, for the sake of truth, it's very good that, on the initiative of the Duke Hungarian Union, it's changed, at the end of last year, the Criminal Code and that we reduced that limit in petty theft to 15,000 to 5,000 dinars. We thought it would be enough, but practice shows it's not enough. That is why we view it as a step-by-step and appeal to all MP groups as well as to the government, primarily to introduce that zero tolerance for theft. If in Austria, the limit is below which the public prosecutor does not respond to the official duty of 100 euros, if there is 64 euros in Estonia, if in Hungary and Lithuania a solution that we propose that the perpetrator pursues, until a certain limit, an official duty to commit a crime and above that limit, if that limit is 275 euros in Norway, if any theft is prosecuted in Russia on official duty regardless of the value, then I think it is unacceptable for citizens' assets not to be fully protected in Serbia. We held talks with all parliamentary groups in March, no one said that against this initiative, we absolutely do not care whether the National Assembly adopts this initiative or whether this proposal is submitted by the Government, on amendments to the Criminal Code on the one hand and the Law on Public Order and Peace on the other hand, but we appeal once again, I underline to everyone that this solution is brought into line with real life and with the needs of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26540	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, as a proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26541	I thank you for the questions Mr. Pastor has raised. I also agree that this initiative and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code should be adopted significantly earlier. I'm sure even at this point, when we're thinking about these changes, there's an infrastructure facility in Serbia on target. I am also sure that by the time this law is not and adopted that both business and public enterprises will thus, and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia will suffer certain damages. There are several initiatives in the assembly procedure to change the Penal Code. The Assembly College shared a letter, a letter to the Ministry of Justice, where we inform the Ministry of Justice about these initiatives with one clear question – whether all these amendments and additions to the Criminal Law will be spoken in part or will be part of a general change of the KZ. I think this second time is much easier, much better than a partial change. Of course now your question can be, why didn't you wait for this to be in the company of all these changes, but the argument was in my first or second sentence. While we are discussing this now and until these changes of the KZ are in order, and I believe that it will come to order very soon, the Republic of Serbia will suffer damage. I believe that these changes will be supported in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, and I believe that with such a criminal policy, we will demote all those who have lagged in the Republic of Serbia, as I am sure that, if you know so well, because your parliamentary work is much longer than mine, and that is that every MP or group of MPs can submit an initiative for the adoption of a certain law. Of course, in all of this, I would not reduce the role of public enterprises that have direct damage to the conduct of these crimes, that most of the initiative came from the public company Elektro Network Serbia, and from the public company Elektroprivreda Serbia and Telecom Serbia, and I am sure that such reports can be given by all public enterprises, whether the founders of the republic, municipalities or the city, regardless of the will of the citizens run these public enterprises or those municipalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26542	The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26543	I thank you, Mr. Granny. At no time did I question why this proposal of yours is on the agenda. In no sentence of my own, I have doubted that it is a proposal that is extremely important for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as for the economy, and that is why we will support these amendments and the additions of the KZ, which your parliamentary group has proposed. At the same time, I only wanted to point out the problem that exists and I expect it not to be asked in return, but I expect that the SNS parliamentary group will also support our initiative, or proposals for amendments and additions to the law, so that the property of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be protected, and I expect that from other parliamentary groups. This is not in the interest of the Hungarian community, this is not in the interest of citizens living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, but of all our fellow citizens. For this reason, I appeal once again to all parliamentary groups, as well as to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to amend and supplement the laws proposed by the SVM parliamentary group, to be found on the agenda and adopted, because for us, once again, it is absolutely acceptable to propose it to be the Ministry of Justice, or Government. It is absolutely acceptable to propose members or committee on constitutional issues and legislation or the Committee on Justice and Local Self-Government. We simply just want the property of the citizens to be protected. I don't think that those acts against citizens, against citizens' property, are less social hazards than those you've thought about proposing this proposal, and that is why I hope for the adoption of these other amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26544	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26545	Mr. Pastor, I thank you for your support and I am sure of your good intentions when proposing changes and additions to the KZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26546	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Please, just sign in. I have made the order, Srdjan Spasojevic, Vladimir Marinkovic, Slobodan Veličković, Bojan Djuric, Marko Mitrovica. It's the order, so there's no need to sign up here because maybe someone wants to advertise the Rules of Procedure, and then I'm filled in this list right here. I ask you, to save you time, turn off and reapply. Here you go, Mr. Chiquiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26547	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the attitude of citizens to public goods, the absence of awareness of the theft that could put thousands of dinars at risk the lives of people, the security of the state, the security of property, shows a deep crisis in which our society, the moral crisis, the material crisis, but also the crisis of the state. In order to correct all of this, responsibility is primarily on the good organisation of the state. Every stranger in the '90s, and today we have a lot of examples, passing through our highways, believe me, in most of the cases couldn't shut down the highway if he didn't have a navigation, because most of the highways were then off the highway, not talking about a protective fence, signalling. Mr. Babic, as a promoter, talked about the material damage exclusively, but since I've managed one insurance service for 10 years, I know how many lives have been lost because of the theft, say, the traffic sign "stop", or because of the theft of a shaht's lid. The Serbian Renewal Movement and the DHSS, as right-wing parties, have always advocated a strong state, for a serious state, for a responsible state, for an effective state and for their services, but also for a harsh criminal policy. We're a country that often plays humanity where humanity has no place at all, like, with a mild criminal policy, and where we're supposed to be human, we're not. We have so far supported all judicial reform, and I said that, Mr. Minister, the other day, precisely because we've analyzed the state of our justice for very cold heads. For example, before the reforms started in 2008, in 2009, we had a criminal policy in which more than 90% of drug traffickers received fines below the legal minimum, over 85% of rapists below the legal minimum, etc., which showed not only corruption in the court's relationship – a lawyer and often a judicial expert. I, I believe many colleagues remember, and in the last term pointed to the operation of many organised crime groups dealing with these and similar affairs. If you go somewhere, after five minutes an ordinary citizen can find out who's involved in crime, how you can get in touch with them, how you can make money, and, well, the state still doesn't react. Here, a group in Novi Sad reportedly engaged in public traffic injuries was arrested the other day, so many citizens reportedly suffered public traffic injuries and damage claims were high. Mr. Vucevic, your party colleague, Mayor of Novi Sad, told the media that, according to analyses conducted by the city administration in Novi Sad, every third Novosadjan had a stray dog bite. The new Sad seems to me to be a well-organized city and what can be seen with a naked eye, it seems to you that there are fewer stray dogs in Novi Sad than other places, but this shows the functioning of organised criminal groups that the state has not yet touched. In the last term, I talked at least five times about the traffic mafia, about the back of the spine, about a few thousand objects in my insurance company, we had maybe 10-15 vertebral necks, and then about 2005, when the first criminal group of 180 was organized, the following year, 250 cases, so times twenty-something insurance organisations, a rough estimate showed that they took 1.5-2% of the total monetary mass in circulation in the Republic of Serbia. Several of these groups have been arrested, but the main ones still don't and the chief boss continue to do the same jobs. What does that prove? It proves the state is asleep. We have also supported amendments to Criminal Law in terms of reducing the fine for robbery and here is still in contact with the members of the MUP dealing with the persecution of bandits, the reduction still has its effects, but it is still shown that criminals are praised to police officers and say – I have taken off in the last three months 10 criminal acts. Now, are we going to support these changes? We'll back off with both hands, but what else do we need? In addition to codifying criminal legislation, I was here the other day when we talked about a network of courts and other laws, saying that we have been in favour for years because, I think, in the Criminal Code, more than half of the members have been amended and he requires that he adapt to his time, and a reform of the MUP is necessary. Our citizens who are staying abroad, for example working in Germany, will see that the more effective work of their police is in the event that some citizen on the sidewalk is being introduced to oil, than in our case when someone destroys, damages or steals public devices and all of this that they had to react to, and the EPS, "Electro Networks", "The Railways", "Telecom", "The Ways of Serbia", and all other public enterprises that manage these goods, put those goods of public importance in their maintenance. In addition to this cruel, massive material damage, I would point to enormous immaterial damage, that such thefts often produced the loss of human life, the disability of people, and it was often that thieves themselves were killed in stealing because they were climbing high altitudes, coming into contact with both electricity and gas in order to get their illegal work done as soon as possible and themselves. We have, with the day of forming this government, expressed a clear political position that all that is good, no matter which side it comes from, we will support it. It seems to me that as time passes on to that point, more and more opposition parties come and more and more, and what's good is that this government, as time passes, has increasingly realized that time and history don't begin on the day of the formation of this government, and it seems to me that these sharp tones are that everything that happened by 2012, and everything that started with the day of the formation of this government, everything has been given to God. It seems to me, and it is noticeable to Mr. Minister and in your work, that the government, at those moments and resolution ministers, when they are familiar with the real problems that are very complex and in the part of your work, then the perception of what the previous governments have done is a little different, and what I'm going to say, what we have been saying in all previous governments, we haven't been satisfied with the governments since 2000 because they haven't responded to basic, key tasks, except for improving our country's international legal position, calming our region's passion, establishing macro-economic security, in all other key fields, all governments have failed. What does that mean if we're talking about stealing public devices, funds, destroying objects, etc., what does that mean in practical life? In practical life, it means that we have growth, it seems, minor delinquency. In the '90s, kids didn't want to play cops at all, they all wanted to be criminals. Criminals were paralegals back then. They were also in charge in the city, often in a small country, children served as role models. The relics of this because of a terrible anti-moral media campaign with shows that I often mentioned "The Mad House", "Farma", "The Moment of Truth", "The Great Brother", etc. have an impact on raising younger generations. Therefore, only by preventing the tightening of criminal policy, by the repressive functioning of the MUP, by law enforcement authorities, by the prosecution, by the court, will the full effect not be achieved. This is a task that requires a serious mobilization of the entire society, and we have this mobilization in the signs, and it seems not to us to the end. Who are the favorite residents of the neighborhood and the settlements in England? Bobby, their cops. What do they have on the equipment? Notes, whistle and pencil. What's their function? Not after grandma, not by uncles, as Mother Jevrosima's oath would say. We have a case of one of our famous football players, who gave a deciding goal, and for the first time in Switzerland, that football club became a winner of the CUP, and when he came to call his friends at night, he whistled under the window to go to celebrate, a policeman approached him, congratulated him for being a hero of the city and immediately wrote him a punishment for disturbing public order and peace, and warned him that he was in a serious state. A few times myself, say, when I was at football games in Germany, I saw serious behavior and police and police officers on the border at the time our borders were guarded by the military. They made it clear to you that you were coming to a serious state, gave you a plan of movement and a street and how to get to the stadium and warned you of any sanctions. Of course, there were those who disobeyed the laws of that state, the police intervened after five seconds. We happen to steal devices, funds, signs, destroy objects of great importance, most often, as Mr Babic said, reporting against the NN face. Efficient police work is lagging behind, cases are often outdated or rejected due to low value of stolen goods. Who's suffering? They're all suffering. Citizens say they have no confidence in the state, that the state does not act effectively, and then, as Mr Balint Pastor said, they often self-organize. I'll say one more thing, Mr. Minister. We also supported the proposal, and it seems to me that the Democratic Party has submitted amendments to the Arms and Ammunition Act. Criminal legislation and, in general, legislative matter requires it to be permanent, it is alive, variable and to monitor what is happening in a particular society. We are witnessing that it is really necessary to amend that law, that more serious psychological testing is needed in those carrying weapons, especially those carrying weapons under official duty, whose rules of service require it, because you see, and the superficial analysis suggests that often the perpetrators of these most serious crimes, murders or multiple murders, those carrying weapons, which are meant to protect the safety and lives of others, and they are endangering them, which means that the system has failed and that there is no real recording of the psychological profile of the person to whom the weapon can be allocated and to be entrusted with such work. That is why we will support these laws, and we will also support conventions on international legal aid, all conventions and criminal and civil law matters. We are witnessing that Serbia was an isolated island in the 1990s. We were neither a member of Interpol nor a UN. We interrupted literally international legal aid thinking that we were the best in the world, and in fact we were among the worst in the world, even here, the operation and the main word were led by organised criminal groups. In addition to having great importance for criminals who have committed crimes in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and in the territory of another country, this has great importance for the prosecution of organised international criminal gangs, because today, in many aspects of military security, national security and the security of citizens of property, all states need co-operation. That is why we have always voted in favour of this kind of agreement, not to mention those very important matters of life in civil-legal matter, when literally citizens can't even make their very important civil-legal request and solve a life problem without good co-operation and good international legal assistance. Therefore, Mr. Minister, I am pleased that the Ministry of Justice, too, seems to me, has rightly located some of the really current problems in our society, that it is responding adequately. I wish that trend would continue. As for our parliamentary group, as so far, we will always be constructive and correct in that part, regardless of what we are the opposition political party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26548	Thank you. The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26549	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Babić, the respected citizens of Serbia, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, which refers to something truly life-threatening, which we face every day in every city, with certain problems. Of course, I want to support this bill submitted by the SNS parliamentary group in an official procedure in the Serbian Parliament in front of the New Serbia parliamentary group. I think this is one of the draft laws on amendments that represent general prevention for everything that's going on. Very often, we have had the opportunity to look at certain aspects of the show or on the news or when a criminal group gets caught and all of us and those who deal with law or some other business in Serbia, say – is it possible that something like this is happening? But it's kind of always been like something that's a little funny. There's always been a non-believer that someone with such a thing can do. From what the representative of the SNS parliamentary group has said, we have seen that many problems, not only in public enterprises, major systems such as "The Railways of Serbia", "The Elektro Network of Serbia", telecommunications, but also many problems in local self-government, which because of these crimes committed by certain perpetrators have done great harm both to these public enterprises and local self-governments. This is a good example, or such a proposal, if the perpetrators of such crimes were to get in the way, but I believe that, regardless of everything that seems to be tightening the criminal policy, they would be too happy to eradicate this kind of crime, but as with some other crimes and tightening the sanctions they have been for example. in traffic and drug use and trafficking, etc., for years there have been tightenings, but they always seem to be. I believe that this is certain, given the amounts committed by the perpetrators of certain cases that they have stolen, they will not be so impressive as to what damage they have done to these public enterprises, but regardless of all, when someone has committed some crimes for years, it will certainly be a source of income to those people who have thus come to some of the funds. I believe that such crimes, no matter what, will still be. So I appeal to certain authorities, first of all to the MUP, then to the municipal police, then to the representatives of certain public enterprises themselves, such as water, clean water, PTT, etc., that they respond quickly to this phenomenon, because, in the end, the state has great property damage, but to the citizens of Serbia, or to people who have been extremely injured in situations in open seams where the lids have disappeared, etc., even in some places and such injuries that have led to great disability and so on, it is one of the most dangerous things. Mr. Minister, I'm going to tell you that right now in my attorney's office I have one case from one city, I'm not going to say where, where a certain person is, in particular, a teacher next to a school, fell into a pod, where she was injured, and I want to set an example for all those people who had such a situation, that the path to justice is still a solid debt. Namely, in such situations from filing a lawsuit to judgment, you will not believe it, but most often these shahs, i.e. open up where the systems are in very poor condition, so that it can't be clearly determined who owns those shahs, and then, given the time and the cover, it can no longer be seen whether it's a water line or a purity or it's a PTT. We have that cubed shape at CTU, so it can be determined if it's an electrical grid. Then it needs to be reported, and then a neuropsychiatrist needs to be reported, and then, in this case, it happens that it doesn't really know who's bossing these shahts, i.e. the founder of municipalities and public enterprises, so if you solidly sue one and the other, as is the case, then it happens that 20 years ago there was a transfer of authority to a company that maintained it, and then the procedure and was returned for all of it, and then a retrial, etc. So, what do you do with a serious injury, is you have to sue... Most of the time, public enterprises don't want to be treated in these situations, and I understand them. You know, it's not someone's fault that someone takes the lid overnight, goes and sells and the next day happens a critical event, or an accident, but there's certainly a certain gap when it's more than 20 days. I'll tell you that in this particular situation, the shah was opened in both injuries, and after the lawsuit was filed, and even when the expert came, it was about two months ago. Well, I've set a life example. To all those citizens of Serbia who have had such an accident, surely those in this situation where we are discussing an amendment to the bill, which may not be a miracle for many, but for those people who have encountered the problem, are certainly interested and sure they want to hear what is going to happen in this situation. I'm sure the proposal of the subsequent SNS group is very good. Surely there will be general prevention. I'm sure through this way, first of all, the perpetrators of criminal acts and others, who in the chain want to resell something that's not safe in the domain of normal business, first of all I think about those who own these wastes, as we call them, will surely be taken into consideration and will not want to trade this way at some next stage, or that the burden of the state comes up against legal property profits. It was always amazing to me when I was thinking about this or when I was actually meeting with this, how it's possible on those wastes when you sell an iron fence or when you sell a lid or some hood or something, it could be a common thing, even if someone commits a crime or a battery, and then steals, it's always someone's used thing, but if someone brings a shah cover to someone who trades with it, then it's something that's wrong, and I think there's been a lot of leaks. You know, even with inspection bodies that could ask a common question with any incursion or regulatory control – and how is it possible to trade in this way, unless there was a replacement of these things from public enterprises, so the public enterprise offered it to such people who owned these facilities. I believe that this kind of prevention will first and foremost take into account those who receive second-hand things on waste, but I am sure that there will be a sense and one who, as Mr. Babic said, for three, four thousand dinars in these public enterprises, i.e. those shahs that are happening etc., will not do and risk such things, but, as I said, it is certain that individual cases will continue to be in practice. That's why I appeal to all those who can, even to citizens who notice such a thing, to report this sort of thing to security. Of course, above all, I appeal to both the municipal inspection and the employees who take care of such things, to pay particular attention to the daily controls, etc., whether something in these systems praises what can be threatened by public enterprises and, of course, the citizens of Serbia. This is how I wanted to support everything Mr. Babic said. I didn't want to repeat myself, but I practically wanted to go through life situations to explain what the problem is here, although it's very clear what our proposal is, which is in the congregation procedure. As I said, it seems to be a kind of Benning thing, but it is very cruel and extremely important to the citizens of Serbia. I'm glad that all the MP groups, as far as I've heard, who have exhibited before me, want to support one such proposal to amend the Criminal Code. I want to thank the SNS for sending this proposal to the assembly procedure. The NS parliamentary group will support this bill in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26550	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26551	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am also sorry about the SDPS Group, which I am in and on whose behalf I am speaking, which is the withdrawal of the laws on amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Servants and on State Administration. I believe that in this set of laws, which I hope will come back in the process of our Parliament in a very recent time, will need to be found and amended and complemented by the Law on Public Enterprises. Why? I believe that in these amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, proposed by the SNS parliamentary group, there is nothing disputed, that when it comes to punishing these serious acts of theft, that the state should seducing order, seducing discipline, and that sanctions are maximum in the interest of the state itself, of course, primarily of the public sector and public enterprises, and thus also of those for which they serve and are working and functioning, and these are citizens of Serbia, and these are our own country. I would also refer to other essential problems that need to be addressed parallelly in the domain of changes and additions to the Criminal Code and to the situation that we currently and in the past few decades have in this matter. We have to ask ourselves why such heavy theft, such a violation of property and the integrity of public enterprises that are mentioned, which are "Electro Networks", "Electrodistribution", "Electroprivreda", "The Railways of Serbia", why isn't such a thing happening to the private sector? Why isn't this happening to big multinational companies? We will be in favour of the next period and we believe that one very large part of the responsibility in the professionalization of management and in line with the new conditions of modern business, and we all know well in this room that security management, risk management is one of the main aspects of asset management and the resources of every company and every organisation. I will point out as an example that the railway company of Serbia has about 2,000 employees in the security sector. This is also the case with "Electroprivreda" and "Electrodistribution". I must stress that the "Electro-distribution" and "Electro-prived" even have high profits, though in the "Serb Railways" and profits are very low, and that we should be looking for one of the sources of problems, when it comes to violations and when it comes to material damage that has been happening every day for decades in such businesses. Perhaps it is the source of all this when it comes to the governance process itself in these companies, it is in line with world standards and standards of developed companies in the public sector, in developed countries operating in the context of market economies. Maybe it's because public enterprises still have these whole sectors, so-called. general jobs representing a relic of old times, not sectors of human resources development and management in line with the modern model of recruitment and selection of the highest quality and best staff. Today almost every company has a sector, it has a service, it has a directorate in security, taking care of company security and its assets, both material, both financial and human resources that every company or organisation has. Perhaps we should seek a solution to the various agencies, funds, commissions to implement this particular budget redistribution so that we can strengthen the capacity of the security and risk management sector in public enterprises or to decide in accordance with needs and in line with the possibilities for such services, in order to now modernly say "out sort" or engage some other companies that are professionalised and who are professional in doing the job. We have heard from our esteemed colleague Babic that the material damage is enormous, enormous and we believe that the amendments and additions of the Criminal Code and how to help make the material damage that directly endangers both our budget and the functioning of the public sector, public enterprises, therefore, owned or owned by the majority of the Republic of Serbia, that it will contribute no longer to this extent. But we need to think in this direction that, through both people and the management process, we do everything possible and we need full capacity to protect ourselves and in order to plan, as one of our colleagues said earlier – so that we can act preventively and to reduce that level of damage to the lowest possible percentage and the smallest possible level. It's called strategic planning. We can't talk about these consequences from five years to five years. We've had so much damage and so much damage, we have to see what's causing it, plan it, clearly define what we need, what resources we need, what we need to implement to stop this happening. This is the fundamental difference between the private and public sectors. In the private sector, the titlemaker is clearly determined to keep his assets maximum. We need, like all parliamentary groups, and as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which represents us, to do everything in this position and in the positions responsible for the security sectors, we have the highest quality and most capable people who will in one social and responsible way protect state property. I also want to introduce my distinguished colleagues to developing countries, not only to invest, not only to invest, but to develop their own software, so information technologies that can monitor any change and prevent any abuse and damage to material property. This is also happening in the energy sector, in the electricity sector and in the railway sector. So literally with one quality information system and software, people who monitor it, monitor it, you can literally track every pedal, every inch of a gas pipeline, railways, broadband networks, anything that exists as a material resource. Again, the government of the Republic of Serbia moves to try. These are good examples of companies from Singapore, South Korea, from other developed countries that are very interested in making joint arrangements with domestic companies, with universities, with universities, to step up and take our business, management, asset management, finance management finally comply with some world standards and to follow those trends that happen in the modern and developed world. Does anyone think that we can manually, or in some manual, pedestrian way, control a few hundred kilometers of gas pipelines or railroads in the 21st century? It's impossible. That is why it is very important that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is working on IT industry development projects, investments in both human resources and in attracting investments that will help help us to help these capacities, to make the public, state administration and the property that the state has the best and the best we can control and make the best and the better use of. I believe that colleagues are absolutely right that it is unacceptable to also defile monuments in the 21st century, whatever the values are. The state is the most responsible for this. However, we must also take care of our country's security system, the position of 46,000 police officers working in the MUP and who are in charge of security, both materially and for the security of the people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In recent days, we have heard certain objections and suggestions that the police are not rightly receiving those famous 10,000 dinars of social aid. I'm going to remind you that the police are receiving 10,000 dinars of social aid precisely because they made a concession to our state because of the economic crisis and recession in which the state is located and does not exercise the right of a special collective contract signed in 2011, which to respect in full capacity would individually mean much, much more money in sum than 10,000 dinars per MIP employee. So if we want that kind of security, and we all agree, and we have this undeniable consensus, we have to take care of the equipment of our officers, of their status, of their standard, of the means they use for their work and for what they are paid for, for what they exist, which is to provide life, security and freedom for the citizens and to protect the material values of our country. I'm going to talk a little more, I'm going to support on behalf of the SDPS parliamentary group, on the agreement with Belarus. Trade exchange, what's most interesting about our parliamentary group, is that, year after year, there's a growth of about $30 million in 2010, we came to 150 million in 2012. It is our desire to increase trade in the next two, three years by about half a billion dollars. We think we have great opportunities for this, huge potential. We have signed free trade contracts, exports and imports of goods determined without customs duty. In the past few months, Mr Ljajic, otherwise the minister of trade and telecommunications in the government of the Republic of Serbia, has negotiated and discussed that the list of products and goods that can be exported from Serbia without customs duty includes both cars and cheese and other food products. We hope it will bear fruit, resulting in an increase in trade exchange, but also a decrease in Serbia's deficit in the trade exchange with Belarus, which is literally about $50m. We have to work on it. What represents a real opportunity when it comes to an agreement with Belarus and what is the second step in relation to this agreement, which I hope we will vote in this esteemed and high home, is the proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Belarus on legal assistance on civil and criminal matters. This gives us space and opportunity as a state, to carry out the initiative and appeal as a government and to form an office for co-operation with Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan, with countries with which we have signed free trade agreements and thus to make maximum use of the potential we have in this trade exchange, but also in the common market research process, the formation of joint ventures. I'll just remind you when the economic area is concerned that Belarus has a highly developed machine and metal sector unlike Serbia, that enterprises and large companies from Belarus are very much in the mood and interested in buying or strategic partnerships for certain enterprises in the restructuring process, and we all know that their fate must be resolved by June 2014. In particular, it is ‘14. October", about the Car Factory of the Kings. Even a certain interest has been expressed in the Smederev Zelezara, which we all know is in the situation and we simply feel that a strategic partner is urgently needed. It is also possible to expand this co-operation in the area of agriculture, but a very important aspect of co-operation should be high education and science and a model that is applied to reducing unemployment, because I will remind you that unemployment in Belarus is at 1.6%. A very important aspect of this co-operation and what we think the SDPS will represent is an additional impulse of co-operation not only with Belarus but also with the Russian Federation and Kazakhstan, the presence of the Zber Bank in Serbia, the bank representing last year the second banking brand in Europe, which had a growth of over $14 billion in the previous year, which can be a boost to both exports of domestic enterprises and the presence of Belarusian companies interested in the "Joint Fencher Arrangements", strategic partnerships, but also for the realisation of Greenfield, Brownfield and other investments. The SDPS Parliament Club will support this agreement in the voting day, support the conventions and support the changes and additions of the Criminal Code, with a delay that, in addition to changing the law, which we will tighten the penalties, we need to work on public sector reform, on the professionalisation of public enterprises, because as a parliamentary group, we consider this to be the main and main cause of generation of indivisibility, inefficiencies, inproductivity, and thus to generate what is happening and in this sector which is responsible for security and risk management and we will advocate in the next period and for the amendments to the Law on Public Enterprises and for the more dynamic changes when it comes to the professionalisation of the public sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26552	Representative Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26553	I thank Mr Marinkovic and the SDPS parliamentary group for their support. I agree that the management of public enterprises has been chosen under the Law on Public Enterprises, and it is necessary according to the property of public enterprises to treat the relationship of a good host. It was an interesting initiative that should be considered and discussed and appropriate decisions should be made, that even this management of the legality of business, to reduce losses or increase profits, guarantees its assets. What I can't agree on is that the level of theft that has been targeted by these changes and additions to the Criminal Code will be less and will depend on the ownership structure of these companies. I can't accept that it depends on the agility of management. I am sure that all public enterprises have taken all the measures in terms of physical and technical security, but it would be extremely unserious and unsustainable to expect these public enterprises to stand next to each pillar of the power line or each of the ‘Telecoma’ shaft stands for one man who will guard it for 24 hours. It's unsustainable financially and otherwise. It will either increase the number of employees, which is unsustainable because this is how the public sector is tense, or large funds will be poured out through private companies that will do such things. I believe that the only prevention and the only possibility to reduce the level of damage to the public sector is a clear criminal policy that will be in place by adopting such a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code and which will target anyone in this stealing chain, by that direct perpetrator who is infrequently risking and his life to come up with some small profit, and I don't think that any justification for such things is either increased poverty or a huge number of unemployed in Serbia, because if someone for a thousand or two thousand dinars that are going to get their own life, but also the lives of tens of thousands of people in Serbia should have no justification. The only clear criminal policy is prevention, but also criminal policy towards direct perpetrators and those who are the market for direct perpetrators, and this has nothing to do with the ownership structure in the sector, because I believe I have no data, that the damage is suffered by Telecom but also by Telenor and that they are a target for the same people. That someone who wants to steal a meter, two or ten copper cables, won't knock on a public sector door without knocking on a door and a private sector. The copper wire does not say – the owner. Because of all this, only and exclusively, it's all just a matter of clear criminal policies and the mobility of our society towards this problem. I thank you again for your support.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26554	Thank you. The word is Vladimir Marinkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26555	I can see that Mr. Babic and I agree in most things and in a large percentage. But to solve such a problem – you were just talking about it, Serbian Railways have 2,000 employees working on security issues. So, in fact, every foot, now I'm paraphrasing a little bit, the stripes can be physically covered under these circumstances and in these conditions in which the railway is operating today. But I was just talking about increasing the efficiency and application of new technologies, increasing the efficiency, security and control of the assets that these same public enterprises have. So our proposal was only proactive and consistent with the time in which we live. We live in the 21st century, a century of new technologies, and I agree, as well as the parliamentary group that I belong to, that we don't need so many workers right now, and that's why we don't have efficiency in that area. If we had full efficiency to protect the property, to save resources and financial resources, that would be just fine. But since we're in no condition to do that, our proposals are just aimed at applying new software, new technologies, we're working on it. Of course, it will create new jobs in the same railways, in the same electricity industry, in electricity distribution, but new jobs that involve higher education, IT engineers, administrators, people who make software. This will also encourage creative technologies, innovations, etc. That's how we thought about increasing this efficiency and reducing the security problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26556	Next reported is MP Slobodan Veličkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26557	Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code intervenes in the domain of certain provisions of the Criminal Code which regulate the criminal acts of heavy theft, destruction or damage to public devices and endangering public traffic by dangerous action or dangerous means, as well as supplementing the criminal act of concealment. The reason for the intervention lies in the fact that in recent years the number of criminal acts of public devices, damages or destruction of transmission and distribution systems has been increased and that this is done in the form of organised activity, including the network of assistants, for the purposes of concealing further sales. Public undertakings and companies performing electro-distributive and telecommunications activities, public transport activity in rail transport, water supply and waste water disposal and similar activities of general interest are thus suffering multi-million-dollar damage. However, the existing provisions of the Criminal Code governing criminal offences against property and against the security of public traffic, such acts, which apparently contain a high degree of social danger, have not been adequately treated, and hence neither the state authorities that prosecuted the perpetrators of such crimes have been able to adequately respond. The amendments to the cited provisions of the Criminal Code extends the protection facility in the course of the crime of heavy theft, and this part of which is otherwise threatened with prison sentences from one to eight years, includes public devices, which has not so far been the case, but has been qualified as ordinary theft for which prison sentences have been threatened for up to three years. It also intervenes with regard to the criminal offence – the destruction and damage of public devices, in this direction as amended by the current member, so that any destruction or damage to public water devices, heat, gas, electricity or other devices, or the system of connections, is subject to a three-month-to-five-year prison sentence, and that, if such destruction or damage is caused by disturbances in the lives of citizens or the functioning of the economy, or public traffic, it will be punishable by imprisonment from three months to five years, by eradicating the existing provisions under which criminality is prescribed for the execution of the work from the incessant and by monetary or prison until one year. The existing incrimination of the criminal part of concealment in the work relating to the protective facility is replaced by the addition of public water, heat, gas, electricity and similar devices to existing special protected facilities, thereby incriminating the organized activity of the concealment and further selling of these devices supplied to the criminal part. Finally, the action to carry out the crime of endangering traffic by means of dangerous action and dangerous means is expanded by the fact that the existing one, which concerned only the destruction or damage of traffic devices, systems and traffic signs, is also extended to rail traffic. Taking into account the fact that this law seeks to prevent the increasing number of criminal acts in relation to public devices, which are carried out in the light of organised activity in order to obtain profits and which cause public undertakings to suffer enormous damage, and that it is necessary to intervene more effectively in terms of changing the legal provisions, we believe that this law should also be supported and the PUPS parliamentary group will support these amendments and supplement the Criminal Law in the day of voting because this is necessary to protect property more effectively from general interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26558	Thank you. MP Bojan Djuric has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26559	Dear Vice-Presidents, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is nothing more natural for the LDP to strongly advocate any form of property protection, no matter what its form is. I think as much as you do, Mr. Granny. It seems to me that those who steal don't stop on public property but also do private property. But I'm also not sure it's a key generator for serious problems, debts and inefficient management of public enterprises. But we'll talk about it later. I understand that we have serious economic ties with Belarus, but on the agenda, there is one convention on the agenda, an international aid agreement on civil and criminal matters. If that's what we're talking about, then maybe we should talk about those other aspects of life in Belarus. In the LDP parliamentary group, MP Miljenko Dereta, who was banned or banned from entering the country because he was trying to fight there for some democratic values. If we're talking economics, when you say that 1.5% of the unemployment rate in Russia, you know what, Mr. Marinkovic, I know many other countries where the unemployment rate was zero or almost zero, so that didn't say anything about the country's economic strength. What is the economic strength of Belarus and the economic situation in Belarus, we could conclude only at the moment when the country opens up, when it comes to a normal market, when it has no fictitious, full employment and when it has slightly reduced its inflation, which, with our inflation, has been the largest in Europe in recent years. I understand that these things are being concluded, especially in criminal matters, especially in relation to countries that have serious problems with the functioning of the legal order of the rule of law, the rule of law, the rule of law, the rule of law, but let's not just make heroes or a heroic country, an example of democracy from Belarus. Some similar forgetting of what the essence of life has led us to very problematic and political projects in the past. I remember time and making a common state, trying to make a common state with Russia and Belarus, so I'm not sure it was the smartest historical or political project. But to go back, what is the essence of this proposal, these are changes to the criminal, partial changes to the Criminal Code. I said at the very beginning LDP has understanding and, of course, you will never hear from us in the past or at this point something that would be a demagogue or a populist attitude, something that was done by opposition parties in not so long ago, that it must be against everything or that any form of anti-social or anti-state behaviour must be supported if someone is made to make it a political benefit. I hope Mr Babiæ, that everyone has now drawn these consequences, that the fact that these amendments to criminal legislation in some way as you say yourself are trying to send a clear message that they are not allowed, for example, to block railways, to block traffic that this is one principled general position, that this will equally apply to FAP workers from Puboj, that the same applies to what happened or is happening in Kragujevac in some other parts. Personally and the LDP, we think, of course, that the exercise of one right cannot be achieved by violating the rights of others by destroying property whether it is public or private by obstructing the lives of other citizens and in that sense our position is quite clear. However, as a lawyer and as a politician, I must point out one more thing to you, no one has ever solved a social problem that is caused by economic or social, by limiting the changes to criminal law. When it's a mass phenomenon, when it comes from a terrible economic and social situation, then this kind of intervention won't be enough for you. You spoke first of all about individual cases and those situations where there is some kind of organized criminal group dealing with thefts, which further deals with reselling, etc. And it is not disputed that it should be sanctioned, it is not disputed that it should be sanctioned more strictly. I just think you're exaggerating when you're talking about criminal policy as a means of general prevention. Anyone involved in criminal politics will tell you that these domains are very, very limited. They are somewhat larger when it comes to incident situations, when someone is practically engaged in some criminal acts. If you have a much bigger problem with us, and stealing the public installations of what serves public enterprises or general life in the country, it is not Mr. Babic, only because of such organised criminal behavior. It is primarily due to the experience of public enterprises and the public sector as alleles and straw escapes. And we all know that. When Mr. Marinkovic speaks of 2,000 railway employees whose job is to take care of safety. You and I know that a significant part of these thefts doesn't come out of these companies and out of these systems, but from the systems themselves and from the companies themselves. Here for decades generated climates that in the public sector everyone steals what they can steal at their own level. With white collars, the big jobs are the ones that are at the top of that system, and the ones who are lower than what they can take from that job every day. It's a climate that's generated. For me, there is no serious difference between the fact that someone steals part of the railway or some other water and takes away the fact that someone does not pay contributions or taxes and contributes to workers who work there. We've been at the border for 20 and a few years to get out of the goods business and almost go back to the time of the trade where everyone takes what they can and then tries to drown it somewhere else for some other good they need. In that horror, this country slipped twenty and a few years ago, and it cannot yet recover and come out of that horror. Of course I think it's always better to amend criminal legislation and propose a ministry, or government. These are serious changes, they concern the whole system, and that's always better. I don't mind what it's done now this way. You yourself said that part of these remarks comes from public enterprises or from some public enterprises. I think that perhaps in a broader way these remarks or requests would have been processed if the ministry had done it, that the government had done it, and then they would be companies where they didn't. Now I'm not really saying it as a kind of political grudge, but it's not just the directors who sort of come from the ranks of the current ruling coalition or your party. That's why the problem of rail or rail traffic entered this time, nothing else has entered, which is also probably the problem. So it's kind of a grudge. I'm also not sure that always sounds nice when someone says we have to modernise things. I don't know how these thefts that exist on the railroad would be reduced by introducing new technologies. I say once again, it's always so nice to say and it sounds nice, so add to that how it opens up new technologies, it opens up new jobs. I'm not sure that's the case. I think the introduction of new technologies, even in that part of the railways, has reduced the number of jobs. I don't think that's necessarily bad, just let us be a little responsible when we run politics and don't deceive people. It's not about those two thousand people on the railroad, it's really security, but they've been put into the system for years, so at one point, it was the easiest thing to run in the security system. Who knows how many similar cases there are in other sectors of the company or some other companies. Why am I telling you so much about the need for wider action, the Liberal Democratic Party is constantly talking about it. You also show that the key problem that makes life difficult for citizens and the functioning of these companies is this direct physical theft. We're telling you that's not a key problem. A key problem at higher levels of governance for these companies. That's why, I suppose, part of the public, especially in this section when it comes to punishing for the practical prevention of rail traffic, I believe, will react negatively. Because then people have a sense of some kind of injustice, that one criterion is applied to them, and that there is no criterion when we talk about selecting the directors of public enterprises or the qualifications of those who run them. That's what I said here 10 days ago in another debate. You know, how much stronger an argument would be towards these unfortunate workers from Pryboy, the FAP workers, when they're being appealed to withdraw. How much more authority would that be if the data on the extent of the damage allegedly or really suffering from the railways were someone else, someone more credible, not the one who is today the director of these railways. That man answered my question, he didn't even sign an act. Every other sentence has shouters. It's impossible to understand what it says. That's why it's hard for people to understand how the rule is suddenly introduced, how order is suddenly introduced. Once again I tell you, we support the introduction of order, but then it must be comprehensive, at all levels, in each segment. As you will say, traffic cannot be stopped from tomorrow, and they tell you it passed 30 June five months ago, there is no public competition for the selection of directors. Well, it's some kind of violation of the law, isn't it? No one reacts to him by criminal law. What's the prevention then? I remember the parliament's last call, Professor Micunovic, many here and in the opposition at the time took it unseriously, spoke several times about the damage, the injuries people are, how much the system can't do because of these thefts that happen all the time. I'm just saying, let's try to come up with a system that will prevent that kind of abuse, that kind of theft, that kind of threat to public property, and then private property happening systematically, that they're being driven by some kind of government organization, the management of these sectors. Because if we don't, I keep getting the impression that we're working on that binary, one zero system. Give me your company ID, you didn't file your company ID. We never deal with the essence, and what's in those ID cards. You can block the tracks, you can't block the tracks. I never essentially repeat to you again, Mr. Babice – they steal in those systems every one at their level and every one that they can. It's not an accident. It's a system phenomenon. Because people don't feel that something big is going to change in that relationship. They're constantly under the impression that there's some kind of change being announced, and then someone at their local level, they're always local levels, they're a little bit of a wink, they say a little bit -- it doesn't matter. It's just that this goes away and that's why we have all these problems. So for these criminals who deal with it, I absolutely agree, the greater the penalty, but in criminal policy, it's not always your problem to spread criminal sanctions. The problem is how the system works, how it decides. Maybe this should be followed, I would suggest these laws parallel to the law, with one good amendment to the Labour Act. We still don't have that change in mind. And today I'm telling you, we won't even be demagogues and populists on this subject. But the law would help you to separate normal and serious work from work and those who use their jobs in this public sector, public enterprises, to commit these crimes that you here point to on different levels on a daily basis. This is how this change is segment, not enough, with good intentions. Once again, we won't tell you now – go out to the streets, get everyone on the tracks, block the country. We've never done that, and we'll never do that. But, please, make sure that, at least the people seem convinced of the state's intention to once seduce order, to make it sacred to one of their own. You'll find it hard to explain to people who take, steal at that lower level that they don't, when these companies make hundreds of millions of losses a year, when nobody cares where our oil and gas go. It puts the lives and quality of the lives of our citizens far more seriously at stake. How much of a mess there is, how much of a loss in those systems, not because of the lids from the shafts. We can't come and the solution is, I saw it today, everyone who has some claims, then it will be converted into capital, so you'll have new roadblocks and new roadblocks, because someone in it will see some kind of political interest, and depending on what kind of local environment in that city or municipality is going to be supported, tolerated or banned from strike. When "Serbigas" owns 500 restructure companies in six months, what are we going to do? I suggest a fairer approach, you never have that problem with us. If there's going to be a few tens of thousands of people out of work in these restructuring companies, let's just say it openly to people. Don't let us talk to them until the last minute -- they won't, they won't stay, they'll bond, they'll bond, they'll bond, so when that doesn't happen, we'll have some of these problems. Monopol physical coercion of the state, which is criminal law makes sense then while you can implement it in a practical real life. When you are not in a situation for the first time, Mr Selakovic will confirm it, when you are not in a situation to implement it, it has lost state and authority and credibility and more than that criminal legislation has nothing to do with it. You have the last weeks of the situation in Serbia where police are entering some strikes, blockades, hunger strikes, I don't know what's going on, because everyone in this one seems to be able to do this, that it's legitimate, that there's no responsibility, that if you put enough pressure on someone to give a political break and give some kind of mostly palitative solution that can't last, that can't be kept alive at all. Every time you connect people's internship without real money, you do them a bear favor, when they end up on a railroad or somewhere. It's an approach to the Liberal Democratic Party. I say once again, I have an understanding of the intention and some solutions, the Liberal Democratic Party will never be against the introduction of order, in that sense we understand and support this, but we think it was much better to offer a comprehensive system of solutions, which would then really work in practice. We have been going through similar situations in past terms, the Liberal Democratic Party has made an amendment in the last term of this Parliament, we have not brought into crime this cause of disorder and violence at a sporting event, we have introduced this part at a public rally and it has never been applied. This norm is dead. No one believes in her, and then there's no prevention, then everyone does what they want. He's making violence and he's making a mess. When you get so far away from that sharpest sword, if you want state, criminal legislation from real life and real opportunities, then the system falls apart, and I don't have to convince anyone in this country that in that sense, I'm not saying it as political, but as a general remark that society here is falling apart. Who doesn't understand that the basis of violence in all other segments of society is what is happening in the Zemun field these days, which is skating towards racism, he doesn't understand how the problem can be solved throughout the country. Eventually, he faces violence at a stadium in northern Kosovo or in any other segment of life, and these are never petty chess thieves. Those who generate it and the forces that generate it are much worse and more dangerous for society, Mr. Babic or Mr. Selakovic, however you wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26560	Mr. Grandmother, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26561	Mr. Guric, I think you've raised a lot of questions in the last 20 minutes. I'm not saying that these issues aren't important, but they're simply not the subject of this bill on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code. I'm ready to debate that too, the truth when some things and some laws come to order. We are now discussing the Criminal Code, and I agree that preventing these thefts will not contribute to a major debt reduction, which has a public sector in the Republic of Serbia. What you and I probably don't agree on is that one goal can be reached by seven miles, and I don't think anyone has seven-mile shoes in Serbia and that they can't make such a magnificent step, even though I would personally like us as a society to be willing to do something like that, but I'm more for less steps that will be more stable, more sustainable, and this very amendment to the Code of Criminal Law is this one small step. I am sure we will agree that a billion and a half, how much damage the Railways plus 400 million EPS plus, plus, plus all those public enterprises in the Republic of Serbia, that this money could and should have been used on some other much smarter and much more necessary things in our society. I agree, and that's what the past taught us, that white collars do much more damage. I'm happy that you and I have blue collars today, which, of course, doesn't remove us from having blue collars to make a mistake. I'm sure that these mistakes will come from the past, but maybe even if they do something like that now, that the prosecution of organized crime is involved, but I just don't see you, and you're a lawyer, and I'm an engineer, in which law should lay down a provision or a member in which to write -- the director can't set up tenders, the director has to respect the law. I guess that's meant to be, and in case he doesn't, that he doesn't respect the law, that he's setting up tenders, of course he has to answer. Let's take a little more steps, but permanently, constantly, every month, every day, let's make this a change of law. One million each. To prevent those thefts. What you really don't see in this law, which is that we want to prevent some strikes, some roadblocks. Going home to Vranjska Banja, I encountered blockades in Kragujevac. It is not easy for these people, it is not easy for the people of Kragujevac, it is not easy for the workers of the "A car transport company". I know that these blockades are easier and more often passing by some other roads, that the rail blockade is harder to unblock or bypass, but we are in the past and small and blocked water corridors. They're blocked rivers. It's not in this law. Does this law say no roadblocks can be made? It does not say, but also what it says is that stopping the means of transport in rail traffic is contrary to the regulations, etc. I'd like you to look at the Strike Act, too, in that Article 4. The strike law says what defines the strike, what defines the strike committee, the scene of the strike. If that's the scene of a strike in Priboy, on the track, there it is. That's not what this law on changes in the KZ does. The proposal, SNS, is to try to reform our society with small steps but permanent small steps, to preserve the property of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and we agreed. I think that this property, that these assets that are in the past and in the present and today are given for other things, we can spend on schools, kindergartens, much more needed places, or, after all, stay in these public enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26562	Thank you. Mr. Marinkovic, I assume you find Mr. Djuric misread your exposure. Is that right? (Vladimir Marinkovic, from town: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26563	I will address Honorable colleague Gjuric, of course, as the procedure requires, through you. I did not notice that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has any momentum and intention to make any political alliances with any other country, so it was Belarus, the Russian Federation, Kazakhstan or any other country. But we also strongly support economic integration and what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing in that area to diversify co-operation, expand and welcome whoever is capable, whoever wants to co-operate on the economic plan, whoever wants to invest in our country and who is ready to buy goods, services, products from our country. Therefore, we support co-operation with Belarus, we support a potential that, with $40m from 2010, can be realistically accelerated and raised to $500m, we support co-operation with UAR, with South Korea, with every country with which we can establish better economic co-operation from which investments can come. Everyone's welcome. As for the percentage of unemployment of 1.6%, we can now open a professional debate and, of course, you're right. I agree. They have applied one model that inflation has increased, and as you well know, unemployment has been reduced, but I would like our unemployment rate to decrease in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26564	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26565	Do I have another 15 seconds, sorry?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26566	Just hurry, 'cause it's two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26567	As far as new technologies are concerned, that's what I have to say and answer as someone who's obliged and who has to secure 30 salaries every month, someone who comes from practice. I'm using new technologies in South Korea, when the question is just control of the pipelines, precisely by the property of public enterprises, saw and saw how it works. So I haven't read it in any book, but I've seen it myself, and of course we can open up a discussion about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26568	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26569	I'm pretty confused by Mr. Marinkovic. If the real intensity of the ruling coalition, or the actions of the ruling coalition to reduce unemployment in Serbia and Serbia through increased inflation, seems to me to be contrary to this draft budget law, which is on the agenda and a strategy for the next few years. I hope we can sort it out somehow. I hope not. I don't think that's good, but let's not open that discussion any further. Mr. Babico, maybe it's because you're an engineer and I'm a lawyer, so you have a lot more faith in the power of the KZ than I do. You believe that much more can be solved by the KZ than I think. I may overestimate the importance of what's behind your rights, but we're not going further into that discussion. They're legitimate, both opinions. Look how weird this is. You're a representative of the ruling coalition, you feel the need to explain to me now that you're not against the roadblock if it's in some situation in accordance with the law. I'm telling you, I'm always against the roadblock and why don't we tell people? It would help if you told people and you who you are. It's always forbidden to block the tracks. There's always more to the good that's being threatened, that's the possibility, that people's right to travel, that traffic works, that the public system works, why don't you say it? Do you know how healthy that would be for this country? Then we wouldn't be competing politically at that level that's coming up, supporting this kind of protest, but we could talk on a rational, political and economic basis, that's what I've been telling you all along.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26570	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Milutinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26571	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, before we enter the very essence of the matter of this amendment and the addition of the Code of Criminals submitted by the SNS parliamentary group, I think we should say, however, and as my esteemed colleagues have said, a few facts. So, at first, it should be underlined that it rejoices in the Serbian Parliament except that it is always this flow boiler and some filter of what the Serbian government suggests, which is in most cases a proponent of both comprehensive laws and amendments to the law, that in this case MPs are initiators of the adoption of amendments and amendments to a certain text of the law and that is what is commendable, that is what needs to follow us in the next period, in my deep confidence and opinion. With this in mind, I think, and the chairman, the National Assembly president should have a lot more hearing about certain proposals, the legislative proposals tabled by other parliamentary groups. Already mentioned here, there are several proposals, amendments and interventions within the criminal legislation that other parliamentary groups have submitted in the previous period. Today we have the opportunity to discuss only one thing, but I deeply believe and I want to believe that this is just the beginning of this better work by Parliament in terms of the examination of the legislative proposals that came from the MPs. In that sense, I welcome this SNS initiative. However, it is also a fact that we interventions in criminal law, both materially and processically, since 2009, have really had a great deal, I can say, for such a short period of time, and we need to take into account the fact that it is criminal, both material and procedural legislation, however, in some way systemic legislation not only from the state but also from society. Hence, certain rules of conduct that should be universal and for which citizens in Serbia will behave. Of course, this does not mean that this legislation should not follow the trend of what is happening at one point in the country. With that in mind, I can't say and no one can say that what you identified as a problem is not really a reality and it's not something that really represents a particular problem that is suffering not only the state, but not just public enterprises, but what is directly reflected on the citizens of Serbia, because when someone raises a shaht, someone here will probably get hurt, hurt themselves, damaged their vehicle, or in any other way have a problem with it. Of course, the same logical question arises why, and is already being set here, the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration has not initiated changes to the Criminal Code in this way? I am not saying this in order to demean the proposing representative, nor am I a proposal, but because the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration has the most information about the need for new incriminations, to introduce new qualitative forms of certain criminal acts. I think it's by nature that things might be the most called, because there's the greatest possibility that such things might suggest. Why should changes in criminal law be widely approached? The problem is, although it is not the ministry's position and the minister's resolution, that changes should be done in part. I think that when certain conditions are obtained, and I think they have gained more reasons in Serbia, we will discuss this specifically, it could be more comprehensively approached by amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, in particular these crimes. In the previous debate, we had the opportunity to discuss amendments and additions to a set of law on justice. For example, there was no proposal to amend and supplement the current laws, for example on judges, and it was about one, according to my personal conviction, discriminatory provision, and it was about going to retirement, where different things are set up for other citizens and certainly that judges do not have the rights that other citizens have in other retirement sectors. It's about those years of internship, the minister understands me, and 65 years old, so the judges don't have the same possibility of retirement. That is why it is necessary to take full account of the shortcomings of our criminal legislation, both material and procedural, and to approach it perhaps wider through these whole changes. With that in mind, I am pleased with the initiative of the National Assembly College, where I suppose everyone agreed on it, in the next period a letter was sent, as far as I hear, to the Ministry of Justice, to intervene, both in the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. In the past period, we, this congregation, so the National Assembly, no matter what they call it, have mostly led moments and the public to amend criminal legislation. If you remember, at the time of increased violence at sports events, there were certain changes to criminal legislation. And now this is something that initiates us and leads us to these changes. Again, if we consider that a certain period of time has passed, we can conclude that they have not given the best effects, especially in terms of general prevention, but to move on specifically on the proposal. In my opinion, the Proposer's representative well explained the reasons why there is a social danger to incriminate these things, why there is a social unacceptable behavior of potentials, we must say, the perpetrator of these crimes, if this proposal is adopted, and it is indeed indisputable. What I see personally as a problem and my parliamentary group, which is really not malicious or critical, but we are always initiated by some things outside this Parliament to propose some amendments and additions to the law. For example, this energy problem has been current in the last few weeks. I'm not going to say that you have submitted a proposal for these amendments and additions because of it, but it is simply one fact and the performances of the Minister of Energy and the performances of the director of public enterprises and "The Railway of Serbia" are evidence of it. I think the way you tried to change the provision of Article 204, which regulated heavy theft, will unfortunately compromise true equality, given these new qualitative circumstances, and in the context of what I said in the opening statement. On the same basis and for the same reasons, we can list many other reasons why we could describe these qualitative circumstances. For example, someone mentioned why contributions or social security are not paid. It's the same, in my opinion, equally socially unacceptable, as is the subject and subject of these changes and additions. Also, we're going to have a law here on stock reserves, which we're going to discuss. The question arises - how socially acceptable and certain thefts are being carried out in the stock reserves? You know, it's all life situations. That doesn't mean you're wrong when you suggested this. But it's simply a long list of things that are needed, these qualitative forms, as we rightly call it, to prescribe to establish some balance within society. The question arises, since as a qualifying environment, as a qualified form of crime remains the property censorship of 450,000 dinars. You know, sometimes it's equally worth the gold that's been taken, not the amount of 450,000 dinars. Now it's all a matter and subjective experience, very often and objectively. Then, your intervention in Article 290, it is a criminal offense to public traffic by dangerous action and dangerous means. Of course, we ask the question – why have other types of traffic, other than railways, not shown up in this law in any way? You say, with your intervention, stopping the means of transport in rail traffic is contrary to regulations. The predecessors said, I'm going to give you my direct position, in my opinion, there should never be a break in rail traffic, which is extremely important, which is because of the transport of people, but also because of the transport of goods, but also shouldn't happen in other types of traffic. Of course, when we explain and discuss whether it is necessary to adopt these amendments, which are certainly some of the needs of this society, we are interested in whether there are statistics as far as the perpetrators of these or similar acts have been identified, whether their actions can be committed under some criminal act, or under some offence? I'm telling you this for the simple reason why it's very important to justify the incriminating of all of this and then we come here to the field of general prevention. So, do we, and that's certainly the intensity of you as a proposing, as far as I understand, through general prevention to try to make the perpetrators of these acts, call them criminal now, or call them from a criminal, away from acting in those same things. So, they don't do the same, because criminal sanctions, as you know, can be preventive, or can be repressive. So there is also a question of state capacity, whether it has all the necessary capacities to reach those perpetrators who will now commit criminal acts and qualified forms of certain criminal acts to these actions. You see, these are things that are much broader than this topic we're discussing, and I'm glad there's a minister of justice present. And crime, as science, and penology, have to answer a lot of questions today, given the things that change in society. There was an example of amnesia. This National Assembly has passed the Amnetsty Act, the courts have acted on it, and a large number of people have come out before the time of their maintenance, or the time for maintaining criminal sanctions has been shortened. In practice, we who work in the judiciary know what a return is, unfortunately, those people who got out of prison. So, no more repression on them, no more general prevention is working, as it once did on perpetrators of crimes. It's really a much broader topic to deal with. I'm not saying that I can offer you a solution today, but I think that in the next period we should see what alternative visions are to achieve the same common goal. Of course, counterpart Babic mentioned monuments as protective objects of these changes and additions. They were equally protected under the current law. Of course, any violence against any monument should be condemned, as well as that monument in the north of Vojvodina, which defiled monuments in memory of the victims of Hungarian nationality. The public knows, the citizens know who in most cases are the perpetrators of those crimes we're talking about today. With this in mind, it is extremely important that the state reacts much more primarily in preventing what is today a trend in Serbia – the growth of unhygienic settlements and what is happening in these settlements, and sometimes to say that there is only crime, perhaps a very weak word. Here, I can give you examples, for example. only in Belgrade in the settlement of Chukaric Padina from people living in these unsanitary settlements. This is a problem that is much broader than what we are discussing today, and what is the problem of this society, this country, and only more and more will be a problem if the state starts with all its capacities, starting with local self-government, but not just local self-government, but also state intervention at the highest possible level, gives some results. You in this way in clause 290, I really believe that you had no intention, nor do you think that there will be any violation of the Constitution and the law of a guaranteed right to strike by workers, but it is very possible that it will actually come to it, even though I do, we have talked before this debate that your intention is not to make it impossible for people to strike, but if this is adopted, it can actually happen. What's the fact? The workers in Priboj have blocked the railroad. They were paid contributions and social security, health insurance, yesterday or the day before yesterday. So the type of pressure worked. I repeat again, I don't think you should ever block the railway and any other public traffic to achieve that goal, but that goal has been achieved. They, whether they announce a strike or not, if they do this next time, will commit a crime. That can't derivate the provisions of the Strike Act. I checked, I analyzed. Unfortunately, he will perform certain actions that enter the creature of this crime. I know it wasn't your intention. I know they may not be able to reach out in practice to be identified as perpetrators of a crime, but for that, there is a real danger. To conclude, you realize that we have nothing to do with these changes. In line with that, it is my discussion. They are indeed something that is a problem in our society and what is the attempt of this National Assembly, as well as you as a proposing that we try to remove these things, to make less happen in our society and system. I think we should, and it's good that the minister is there, that we more comprehensively approach the amendments and additions to criminal legislation, that in one more abstract way, we are going through all of these deviant behaviors that are happening in our society, as I have told you, in many sectors, things are the same, and they are also of great social importance and disturbances of order in this country. It is my most well-intentioned request to you as a minister, the ministry, and I hope Mr Babic did not understand this in any other way. This is indeed in the good faith and in a constructive debate all spoken out.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26572	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26573	My dear colleague, I hope about FAP and Priboj, and FAP is a tough housewife not only of Priboja, but of the whole region, we can talk about in another light, that parliament should be a place where we promote values, where, as this Government of the Republic of Serbia has solved a major challenge that was within the JAT, and now Er Serbia, we will talk about JAT in an affirmative sense, in terms of obtaining a strategic partner. Some steps are very important in that direction and they are being made. I would hate for this debate and parliament to serve to unify the strikers, where we will direct them to express their rights. In some ugly past of Serbia, we found understanding when even the uniform faces were coming out and blocking the highway. I really don't want to go back to that time and that understanding, but about FAP and other segments of our economy, I'm sure in the near future we'll talk about affirmatively, strategic partners who will come and start production, but also the whole end. As for better definition of Article 204. Criminal Code, you had the right to submit certain amendments to better form that whole area and these ideas you had, but my question is to you and everyone else, until we agree on what crimes we'll change the Criminal Code, who will be responsible for the damage suffered by both citizens and businesses and public enterprises and us as a society? Who's gonna pay for the inert? Who will pay to say, well, who is the proposer of all this, who will take a political point? The Serbian Progressive Party has not filed the law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code due to political points. We put up with it for life. We filed it for the savings. We took it to spend that money tomorrow on children, not remote diagonals, not to look around, and there was a situation when it was at the border of an eco-accessor that we couldn't recover in the next tens and hundreds of years, until we policy-makers agreed on who would be smarter and who would better define a member or whether we should have the whole Criminal Code to change or to change it in segments. The number of processors should not know anyone who deals with politics, nor should public enterprises. It's a M.O.P. thing, it's a matter of justice. The only thing I can tell you, and it's exact and true, is that in the period from 1 January 2007 to 25 December 2013, there were 10,296 of these types of thefts within "The Railway of Serbia". How many NN faces have been filed, and how many people have been caught and processed, I don't know, and I don't need to know. One more thing to end. You're from almost a fellow MP. I respect and support your agility, but in one thing, I'm sure we'll agree. It is what is painful for the National Assembly, whoever is in power, and I am sure that some younger, better people will be sitting in this House in the future. The perception among Serbian citizens of MPs is that 250 people sitting in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia who know that they are different from the green button, who know that they are different from whether they will vote "yes" or "no" for any law. Unfortunately, that's what they think of you and me. That's sad. We must all work to improve the reputation of the National Assembly. We have to work not in these half-empty benches. We need to build a quality debate with respect for each other, cross-thinking and ideas, not an insult. Don't think that I'm in one of your words, sentences, but also other colleagues who spoke, saw any role, but the only thing is how we can run some things in Serbia and make them much better. I don't think the parliament of the Republic of Serbia should be a flow water heater for the Serbian government's proposals. I think there are 250 MPs in parliament, very smart reasonable people, who can run some things, and the driver of change in every society is parliament. Why shouldn't it be in Serbia? Why would the value of this law be less if it was launched only by a parliamentary group or by one of the MPs, and if it were launched in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then it would have a greater value? We're all part of one system and this is supposed to be a rule, not an exception. The Serbian Progressive Party together with authorities has launched and proposed a Law on Public Procurement, which was adopted in our parliament. Some of the legal proposals proposed by Mr. Mikovic were adopted. I think it should be a rule, not to say -- this law will not be respected because it was launched by parliament, and it would be respected if it was initiated by the government. I think that's wrong. I think the law is the same and that we all agree on the values of this law, we should just say tomorrow – and how much to prevent such thefts in the future to give us reports of public enterprises. How much did we save from such a legal proposal? And that is part of the control function that each parliament has, including the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26574	Thank you. National MP Marko Milutinović, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26575	I understand my esteemed fellow MP that it's impossible all day to have the same attention when we're having a discussion, but if someone had turned on the TV and listened to this controversy we're having, you'd think I don't know what kind of important disagreements with what you said, and you might have listened a little bit more to what I was saying, you wouldn't have the need for half the things you said, but good. I haven't said for a moment that you're here in any way collecting political points. That's one lie. I used to talk all the time about how I understood the need for this. As for the amendment to Article 204, so I don't know what that amendment would be if we were now going to list everything and everything. That's what I'm talking about. I commended the legislative initiative that came within the National Assembly. I called for her to be as much as possible, not for some to be privileged, to come to someone's agenda, a proposal for his law on amendments and amendments to laws or new laws, not someone else's. It wasn't you who introduced it. It's been introduced here long before. I agree with that. We should all have equal access to the legislative initiative. And we, as a parliamentary group, have also proposed a law on GMOs and many other laws. Anyway, we've been proposing a number of legislative proposals lately. As far as FAP is concerned, I pointed out to FAP not to in any way call you as a political option, least of all, on the replica. He's the latest example of the phenomenon in our society. So, no matter, we can count any other, he's the most powerful. That's why I'm talking to the public to understand what I'm talking about. It is simply a fact that these people went out and blocked the railroad, that it caused pressure on the authorities of the company and the state and that certain contributions were paid to them. I'm telling you again, there's no way to justify any roadblocks. It is my personal position, and that is the position of my parliamentary group, and I see that there are many MPs. That's why there's no need to discuss things that we all agree on.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26576	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Susan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26577	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will start with the draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, which we are discussing today and which SPS parliamentary group gives full support. The proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Code has a double meaning or, rather, these amendments and additions at the same time achieve prevention in the execution of criminal acts, but also foresees a far greater degree of repression for criminals, who have so far been out of justice and law. The proposed changes and additions include criminal acts where cultural and natural goods, public appliances for water, sewerage, heat, gas and electricity, systems and parts of the public transport system appear as the subject. These cases were not covered by criminal and legal protection in a complete and adequate manner, which undoubtedly contributed to the increasing use of criminal offences to the unlawful confiscation of these goods. In this way there was enormous damage, sometimes with inconceivable consequences for businesses and institutions that manage these good ones. By carrying out criminal acts in which the goods listed above appear as being carried out, the greatest damage was suffered by citizens who rarely emerged as hostages of endangered public systems, without water, electricity and the like, because the perpetrators of the theft and other crimes by taking away public goods, systems and parts of the system contributed to the occurrence of chaos in terms of non-functional or dysfunction in the functioning of certain of the above-mentioned systems. Just a few days ago in the village of Apičići, a core was stolen from a transistor station. The theft was made for the reselling of copper from transformers, and the damage that occurred, first of all, that local villages had no electricity, and then had to urgently install a new transformer, is many times greater than the profits that thieves can make by reselling that copper. We are almost daily faced with problems arising from the theft of public devices and goods. Serbia's public company faces continuous thefts of traffic signalling and equipment that have been going on for a long time in a larger or smaller size. As it threatens traffic, it also endangers the lives of citizens. Mergers of plum bars and shaft lids only in the first month of this year have stolen 123 plums bars and 51 sewers for Belgrade streets, putting all traffic participants at risk, but also causing major material damage. In the past 2012, nearly 1300 slag bars and slightly less than 50 sewers have been stolen. The damage is measured by dozens of millions of dinars. Belgrade's water pipeline daily has obligations and costs due to the frequent activities of people who have done a lucrative job since theft and for profit are jeopardising the lives and assets of citizens. Maybe he's a cover thief, as someone said today, a petty thief, but the damage that can come from citizens, pedestrians, don't give God to children who fall into the shaft is invaluable. That's why the punishments for these so-called. Small-time thieves must be much bigger and stricter. In the past few years, "Serb Railways" have been targeted by thieves stealing parts of cars, railways and signals. This does not only cause major material damage, but also endangers the safety and regularity of rail traffic. The target of thieves is daily parts of cars and locomotives, copper wires and ropes, engines, aggregates, fuel, oil. From the beginning of this year to half of August, there were around 1160 incidents in which the equipment was damaged. Of these, 901 thefts that caused the Serbian Railways suffered damages of around 177 million dinars. Cell thieves deal anything can be sold on secondary raw materials wastes, including rails and cables and safety devices. Just to remember the theft in the pine mine. Since the thieves cut the cable, the miners stayed stuck for a while in the exit machine, and the theft of the cables directly threatened the mine drain pumps, so the worst scenario, which is the immersion of the pit, was avoided by mere coincidence. This can't even be considered a classic theft anymore. It's not just economic damage. Directly threatened were the lives and children who were in practice in the pine mine that day, but also the lives of miners. All these thefts include a well-organized team of thieves, if I may say so, who dared so much to steal close to the houses where the locals live, without any fear or for their own life. It's about well-organized gangs, people who are ready for anything and everything. For these reasons, public undertakings have launched an initiative to specify and tighten the Criminal Code, which refers to the tightening of the penalty for the crime of heavy theft, destruction and damage to public devices and the endangerment of traffic by dangerous action and dangerous means, as well as the addition of the criminal act of concealment, which provides for a greater penalty for the concealment of things that represent public devices. I agree with my colleague, Pastor, that it is high time to introduce the principle or principle of zero tolerance for theft in Serbia, whether it is a 10m cable or a shaft cover, or whether it is a multimillion-dollar theft, whether it is materially or in money. Simply stealing as a general evil in all areas and activities must be stopped, primarily preventively, and then rigorously sanctioned. The following are the proposals for a law amending the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on the supply abroad of judicial and non-judicial acts in civil and commercial matters and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Implementation of Evidence abroad to civil and commercial matters. The purpose of the so-called purpose. The Hague Convention is to ensure that judicial and extrajudicial acts, which are to be served abroad, are made available to the recipient in good time and to improve the quality and organisation of mutual judicial assistance, a simpler and more accelerated procedure. By setting up the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration for the Central Executive Authority, through which legal assistance is under way under the Convention on the Implementation of Evidence abroad in civil and commercial matters, will contribute to greater efficiency in providing international assistance, as overall international legal assistance will thus take place through one body, both bilateral and multilateral contracts. This enables significantly simpler procedures for both domestic and foreign organs. In my discussion, I will also refer to the proposal for a law confirming the fourth additional protocol under the European Convention on Extradition, which provides the basis for simpler extradition procedures, and only accession to the protocol makes it another step closer for Serbia to the EU and European values. The issue of extradition has been governed by numerous international agreements. The most important is the European Convention on Extradition with Follow-up Protocols. The European Convention on Extradition has been completed today with three additional protocols. The signing of the fourth additional protocol with the European Convention on Extradition is important, not only to simplify the procedure, but it is an extremely important convention that allows Serbian justice not to have inaccessible criminals. The signing of the fourth extradition protocol will raise Serbia's co-operation with other EU countries to one higher level. The agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Belarus on legal assistance in civil and criminal matters will significantly contribute to raising co-operation between our country and Belarus to an even higher level. I remind you that bilateral relations between our two countries were established much earlier, more specifically in 1996, when the Friendship and Co-operation Agreement was signed, which gave our relations both scope and significance. Agreements in the fields of education, culture and sports have also been signed. Agreement between the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on mutual incentive and investment protection, the Agreement on Co-operation between the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Belarus. Many agreements are in the areas of trade, tourism, economy and traffic. The Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Belarus have not concluded a contract on legal aid, i.e. a contract that would regulate the issue of legal co-operation between our two countries in civil and criminal matters. Legal aid has not been regulated by the treaty so far between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Belarus and has taken place under the general rules of the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters and the Treaty on Legal Assistance in Civil, Family and Criminal Matters of February 1962, leading to certain difficulties in legal co-operation between our two countries. Serbia and Belarus's co-operation in all areas is becoming more and more frequent, as well as the legal contacts our citizens are making. In addition, crime as a social phenomenon is present in both Serbia and Belarus. The conclusion, this contract, which we are discussing today, is a continuation of the good and friendly relations between our two countries and represents mutual interests to improve co-operation in the area of legal assistance, but also in other areas which will facilitate and speed up legal traffic between the two countries and guarantee legal certainty to natural and legal persons and to one and the other countries. The General Provisions of the Treaty relate to the obligation to provide legal assistance, legal protection and free access to courts and other bodies, the scope of legal assistance, communication bodies, the instructions for the establishment of applicants, etc. Confirming a contract between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Belarus on legal assistance in civil and criminal matters will contribute to creating even more efficient, favourable and more concrete co-operation between Serbia and Belarus. The SPS parliamentary group in the voting day will support a set of proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26578	MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26579	The President-in-Office, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr Minister, today we are discussing a number of laws, however, the most I will remain with the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code. On the one hand, when I saw the parliamentary initiative, I was happy and satisfied with the initiative of the MPs, and that's good. That's even great. On the other hand, I am saddened that MPs receive documents from the main legislator, which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. One such document arrived at the end of last calendar year, December 28th, at the National Assembly. It is clearly said that during 2013, the government will propose a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code. The deadline for this was March 2013. You can see that from your paper on the 249 pages of the government's 2013 work plan. Since it was the end of March, I can only take this as a failed April joke, because since March, how many months have passed. We got fat in November and no such proposal from the government came. In this sense, I can understand the efforts of a number of MPs to go into something that is a question of whether they know well, because it is normal to expect that in a country that is well-established, the Government still has certain resources to make such a bill a better and more comprehensive one. We are in a situation where, on October 23rd, a bill that better arrives in the congregation procedure by emergency procedure, absolutely contrary to Article 154. Rules of Procedure, that it takes 15 days for him to be in congregation procedure. I agree, an emergency procedure has been passed, but you see, from 23 October to today, we have not received a report from the government on the bill itself. In normal situations under Article 155. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Competent Committee and the Government shall deliver a report or opinion, as a rule, not less than five days before the start of the session of the National Assembly. Let's remember when we started this session. Until today, we don't have the government's opinion to tell us whether this is right or wrong. I believe that the Government with all the resources, within which the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration is also, can probably be declared and said – good or bad. I expected the government to make such an effort as we, MPs, did, to make a proposal to amend this bill. It is certain that the Government has a large number of lawyers at its disposal who can look at all possible consequences and all possibilities for the application of the current Criminal Code. Namely, all this that is proposed in the present proposal, in terms of the possibility of processing, and day and day, there are possibilities to process all those who cause general danger, all those who commit a crime of theft, all those who destroy and damage public devices, all those who threaten public traffic. True, the bill provides for a certain tightening, but we should ask ourselves, has there been a law that is currently in force in the present period? Because if someone damages the power line and steals the cable at the same time, is this also about two crimes and a much sharper punishment? I'm talking here as a lawyer, not as an engineer, but as a lawyer who's been doing a good part of his professional engagement just as a criminal law. There is a lot of inconsistencies in the text of the bill itself. I will only look at crimes against the general security of people and property: Article 278 of the current KZ provides for a special form of punishment if the work is done out of default; in Article 279, destruction and damage to public devices, too; in terms of causing danger, non-security of protection measures at work, too; in terms of improper and incorrect construction work, too; dam damage, embezzlement, waterworks, too. We have a situation where, in the bill of law, an institute, meaning -- the possibility of minor punishment for a crime committed out of default, is practically erased. We don't have a statement from the government whether it's necessary or not. In that sense, I call on you that when we propose laws, to do a good analysis of whether or not it is necessary to regulate something in any situation without the law being passed? Because that is our obligation, and the resolution on legislative policy, adopted by the National Assembly. Then let us see what the effects of the regulation are, is the current law being applied and why it is not applied, and does it need to be changed? If we'd done all that and made that whole line of moves, it's possible we could have come to a different conclusion. I do not dispute the right of MPs to make a proposal, I do not dispute the right to demand a tightening of the possibility of punishment, but I ask that all other participants in the legislative process be at least so serious. I am here directly calling upon the Government of the Republic of Serbia who did not make the effort to give us a written statement by today's session on the draft law that has several members. I don't think it was a huge effort for the government, especially given that a group of MPs carried the burden of proposing a criminal law because the government didn't do it for seven months. I understand the need for MPs to blaspheme something that the government has not done, but let the government do this effort and make it clear to us, just to make it easier for us MPs. More people see. We have worked as a parliamentary group of DS to give a large number of amendments to this small number of members, just trying to define and what may not have been adequately defined, and this is a matter of potential disturbance in people's lives to mark it as a significant disorder in the lives of citizens, just as we have asked for the return of the institute in particular for the accidental execution of criminal acts. If the bill, and I don't want to believe it, is just a threat to those who want to strike on the railways, I think that even so far legal solutions, especially in terms of what now applies to crimes against public traffic security, it still stands. There is still a formulation: "and another similar way of jeopardising public traffic". It could be stated – rail traffic, channel traffic, channel Morava-Solun, today-to-morrow, because if we make the law, we make it in 10-15 years. In any case, I believe that when we propose laws, we must not do it unseriously. I expect that if you decide to take a break until the next session today, to make an effort, to ask those sitting in Germany to make a statement about the bill itself, so that we have a clear view of the government's proposal for the law, as regards conventions and other proposals that are being discussed in the context of a joint principled search. The DS Parliamentary Group supports these bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26580	The word is Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26581	Mr. Mikovic, I appreciate your legal and legal knowledge, I respect you, but I've been trying these 10-15 minutes, believe me, with the attention I've been following you, I've only seen form, form and form. There wasn't a point. Has the opinion or this bill entered the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia electronically or at the entrance from Kosovo Street or to the main entrance, been seen by a government lawyer on the second floor? I don't see what's essential and crucial if it's said that it's not necessarily the government's opinion but the board's opinion, which is done. You were on that board. Two amendments to the DS parliamentary group have come to me right now. I don't see that that's the big number of amendments. I'll let you know if you don't know it's two amendments. I respect the different opinion and believe that the Committee, but also the SNS parliamentary group as a proposing, will declare these amendments. I can't say in advance that we're going to refuse them, or that we're going to accept them. We'll really talk about them in the next few days. But that large number of amendments are two amendments. All you said was form. I believe that the form should also be respected, but I would prefer that you and I discuss now the value this bill will bring, about how we may be looking together tomorrow for reports from the government and public enterprises on how much savings these savings were made in these public enterprises, not whether this law or the amendments were driven by the "South" or the van or where they ended up. It is a pure form, which I believe is of no interest to the citizens of Serbia, nor should parliament be interested.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26582	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26583	It is precisely with the attempt not to be more pesoratively determined according to the proposings or the proposal itself, that I do not in any way define myself stronger than the fact that the Committee on Justice, as a parent committee, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, and I have not come to both sessions, to ask him and to discuss all this in the plenary session. Neither did the promoter come, nor did the first signature come. There have been attempts by some other MPs to take over the role they cannot take and defend the bill, but it clearly shows enough that the proponents' attitude towards the institutions of the National Assembly. Anyway, I'm trying as a lawyer to assess this situation that if an engineer proposes law, he can't know everything. But that's exactly why I wanted to cross-reference our views on the board. That was impossible, because you didn't come. There are people present in the O.R., who were on that board, and you didn't come, nor did anyone say -- let's move it, and let's discuss it on the board. That's exactly why we're in a situation where we're trying to talk about these things today. The elemental thing to discuss in the Assembly is procedure. If you don't even respect it, how do you expect us to discuss it in the very application of the Criminal Code with you here without discussing it on the board first? I think it's illusory.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26584	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26585	Since we're in shape, here, I'll move on to that field. The draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code is not proposed by Zoran Babic, the SNS parliamentary group, 65 fellow MPs. I'm authorized, yes, but I'm not the only promoter. I have confidence, Mr. Mikovic, in my colleagues who are members of my parliamentary group, who come to all committees. I have confidence in their opinion and that, as they put their signature under that bill, nothing better or worse than me will defend the views of that law. Whether these are some values you recognize or not, I don't know, and I'm not getting into it. But, 65 signatories as legislators of this law... I'd like a colleague from your MP's group, if she needs medical attention, because I hear yawning, to do something like that. (Chairman: Please, Mr. Granny. So you need to help people who are moaning. What each of the colleagues in the SNS parliamentary group will do is defend the bill under which he signed it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26586	Thank you. The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26587	I expected at least whoever is at the head of the Administrative Committee, who is head of the largest parliamentary group here in the National Assembly, to know the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. There is no possibility that, if someone else is designated as an authorised proposing representative, or if it is not the first signator of the list of signed MPs, it will be an authorised representative. The moment you change what it says in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, then you'll be right, but until then you're wrong. Believe me, I don't want to go after you, I even told my colleagues that just because you're coming from the water polo I have a special relationship with you, given that I did, but I was really into water polo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26588	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26589	I don't have to prove my water polo work. That's what my constitution shows. I'm always ready to race, Mr. Mikovic, and that kind of evidence. On any ground, I'm ready to take the race with you. I'm also willing to take the risk, and you just said that - this bill is good, this bill will make a improvement in our society, but we're not going to vote for it because the mandated proposer didn't come to the board. All right, if that's the only reason, I'm willing to accept your argument, which is why you won't vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26590	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26591	If this is the last thing that will strike a decisive blow to the fight against crime, I'm happy. Just don't make it happen after that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26592	Thank you. Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Draga Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26593	Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Republic of Serbia, the SNS parliamentary group on 23 October 2013, with the signatures of 65 MPs, including myself, gave this high home a proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Code. Afterwards, the procedure that is common for the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is to be discussed on the parent board, which is the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, is the proposal for this and all other laws that are within the area of the judiciary. Of course, we adopted and accepted this bill with a vast majority of votes. The legislative proposal then went to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, where a huge number of votes were also accepted, approved that it was a legislative proposal agreed with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The motive for why we have proposed this legal text is the initiative of several public enterprises, such as: EPS, Serbia's Elektro Network, Serbia's Railways, given that for many years or by analysis of the past five years they have identified the growing trend of stealing, destroying certain devices, that this has caused enormous material damage, and even greater immaterial damage or damage designed by the possibilities of even greater evil. They found that a huge number of crimes were done to harm them and that in this respect, of course, it should react. It can only be done by a tall home by changing the text of the law, in this case the Criminal Code. These motives given by these public enterprises are also known to all citizens of Serbia and I know that all these people sitting next to small screens today and listening to this debate share the opinion and initiative of the SNS for the adoption of these amendments to the Criminal Code. What we have heard today from all the authorised representatives of all the parliamentary groups absolutely clearly states that all this is acceptable for them, along with possibly some nuances, possibly through amendments, and we will, of course, discuss this on the day when amendments are discussed. We are not exclusive, we have never been, nor will we be. Everything that has gone too far, everything that will contribute to the better quality of this legislative proposal we will accept and of course we, as MPs in front of the SNS, and hopefully all the other 250, will give a vote, because these changes are not only cosmetic, these changes are profoundly essential. We've got something that didn't enjoy criminal and legal protection. The object of protection with this Code of Criminal Code and as regards members of 204. difficult theft, 221 and 227. are public devices for water, sewerage, heat, gas, electricity and other energy and systems of public transport and connections, i.e. parts of these devices. Those people who dared to steal, take and destroy some part of these devices have not yet responded because the value of these parts was very small and they were eventually responsible for the crime of theft, decriminalization has repeatedly turned this into a petty act of theft, and in the end no one was responsible for the crime. This time, the motive is to treat this crime, regardless of the value of the stolen property, as a heavy theft and to be held accountable for this crime as for all other crimes, or those traits that have a serious theft. So, regardless of the value of the stolen stuff, the stolen thing is culturally good, what's said more than once today, as far as the monument is concerned, it's about what's been built and made and placed in certain places. The situation in Serbia is such that one economy that has been in complete ruin and has brought down a large number of people who have been running around with their stomachs after bread have been in a situation to steal cables, steal shahs, waternets, steal trivial things that have little value but pose a huge danger. That that chain was rounded up in that sense, the bill promoter recognized it. Those who buy from them or take possession of stolen goods are also, this law sanctioned and the criminal act of concealment is stated. Now a prison sentence is also scheduled from six months to five years for perpetrators and those who have covered up a thing that represents a public device for water, sewerage, heat, gas, electrical or other energy and public transport and connections systems, or parts of those devices. All of this is very important to say that Serbia's citizens would absolutely understand that we have heard, that everything we recognize and what we see is happening, and life makes a lot of changes within a week because we live very dynamically, let alone in months or more, that this phenomenon must one day be prevented. By passing this law in the voting day, of course, I hope that we will all vote and adopt this law, that in this way we will instruct the public and citizens of Serbia that such behaviour, such action, is not allowed, that this action is prohibited, that this action is sanctioned. That is why certain acts and increased prison sentences have been provided to prevent the whole public, and to act individually on those perpetrators who, above all, and these warnings and what is prescribed by law, make such a thing happen and that they are fully conscious, deliberately destroying certain devices, whether it is traffic devices, whether it is an electrical network, whether it is a water network, can absolutely cause great damage to all public enterprises, both the republican level and local, I think that municipalities and cities. All of this is paid by the budget, and the budget is filled by all of us. In this way we want to save that payment from the budget, to prevent all possible thefts and all possible destruction of all these devices. Also, it is said that we will change Article 290 and refers to the threat of traffic by a dangerous action, a dangerous means. We have specifically apostrophe of stopping the means of transport in railway traffic against the regulations. So, I repeat, stopping the means of transport in railways is against the regulations. You can't because you have a right, and of course you have a right when you strike and you fight for something that belongs to you to jeopardize the traffic system, to endanger all other people because they're both eager to travel or to make them go somewhere. You can't stop the economy from working that way. These are all motives and reasons why we have proposed these amendments and additions to the Criminal Code. What in voting day, of course, will call on all other MPs to vote in favour of this law, will do SNS, it is that we will give our vote and adopt this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26594	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, given the need for the National Assembly to pass the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I'm setting a break now. We'll continue at 1600 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26595	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. The word is from the People's Messenger Zeljko Sušec. Here you go. Just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26596	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. The needs for the adoption of laws on changes and additions to the Criminal Code stem from multimillion-dollar losses of EPS, Elektro Network of Serbia and the Railway of Serbia, due to criminal acts of theft of public devices, damage and destruction of buildings, distribution systems of electricity, i.e. devices, infrastructures and means of transport "The Railway of Serbia". These crimes of theft do not only harm the work of these companies, but also affect the threat to the life and safety of Serbian citizens. What I can really say freely is that it's sad, is that so far 52 ways to deceive the EPS have been discovered. There's even an offer on the Internet and a sale of power-stealing devices. I believe that this illegal trade, which publicly states that and in what ways the EPS and other companies can be deceived, must be subject to stricter sanctions by law. In the town of Pancheva, where I live, the target of thieves is often "The Railways of Serbia", "Electrovodina", JP "The Water and sewerage". I will only list some examples that show the haughtiness of those who commit criminal acts of theft and who do not, for one second, take into account that these actions can endanger a person's life, safety and existence of a community. On the night between July 3rd and 4th this year, a power line collapsed not far from the populated town of Starcheva, in the part of the southern industrial zone, Petrochemy and the Pancheva Oil Refinery. Metal handles have been disarmed and taken away by thieves, which has led to the collapse of the power lines and the destruction of high voltage wires, where, fortunately, no one has been injured or injured. In August of this year, the entire town of Panchevo ran out of water, as thieves tried to cut and steal a bundle of 10,000 volt cables, located beneath the Tami Bridge and whose purpose is to supply electricity to the drinking water processing plant. The theft of shahts and rain bars is a regular problem that cost the city of Panchevo and its citizens two million dinars last year. We can't even think about the safety of citizens being violated. All this is about the haughtiness of a person who commits crimes of theft, as well as the irresponsibility of certain owners of illegal waste dealing with the purchase of secondary raw materials and who knowingly violate the law. There are, unfortunately, examples like this in other Serbian cities. The proposed changes and additions of KZ are specified, i.e. tightening penalties for criminal acts of theft of public devices, damage or destruction of facilities and devices of a portable or distribution system of electricity, as well as infrastructures and means of transport in rail transport. These proposed changes and KZ supplements allow better protection of public enterprises' assets, as this is of great importance for the functioning of the economy, as well as for the protection of life and security of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In the end, I can't help but mention the risks of all day-to-day installers of the EPS distribution companies. The attacks and by arrogant thugs on the EPS installers are common. Power thieves often release dogs, pull their weapons, and physically attack them and insult them. For these security reasons, I believe that in the next period we should be more serious about solving these serious problems that the EPS employees face on a daily basis. Based on all this and what is in the interest of protecting the citizens and the economy of the Republic of Serbia, in the voting day, the SNS parliamentary group will support the proposal on changes and additions to the KZ.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26597	The word is made by MP Ljuban Panic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26598	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, as a People's MP first, I must express my surprise by the fact that with this KZ, which is being submitted by one of the MPs in our National Assembly, there was also a united debate on state administration laws and civil servants. Why and what is the reason for these laws to be removed from the agenda, we do not know, and as MPs, we have not received an answer to that question, as well as what will be changed in these laws, or what was the problem in them, since in the spirit of the departisation of public competitions, the publication of competitions in the daily papers has been abolished and it was intended to introduce a wd status for a civil servant with the possibility that he would last nine months, which is, you will agree, atypically, and the county chiefs become political officials. It was supposed to be a continuation of the story of the professionalisation of the state administration and of the non-partisan state. Today, we have a bill on amendments and amendments to the KZ, which according to the authorised representative of the parliamentary group proposed by this law, which is a parliamentary group of SNS, according to its presentation, the SNS wants this law to mobilise society against violence. In this case, violence against installations, public property, etc., nothing disputed, nothing that no one would support, because the problem is that there is a shadow of doubt when you look at official data about the increase in the overall rate of crime, which is caused by returnees in the execution of criminal acts, which are released by amnesty or when today the prime minister is right, and I totally agree with his statement when he says that he is flirting with fans, that the Scanning of these fans would not be against certain politicians, just one politician, the current, former, whatever authorities you want. I know the scandals after his meeting with them stopped. In fact, when Mr. Alexander Vucic met and drank coffee, which we were informed about at seven o'clock in the evening, one day, they really stopped the scandals, which are really abnormal from people, whose normality may also be at stake, whether the scan of Mr. Jocic after a serious accident, Mr. Dacic as prime minister, to some political party, the former, present president of the Republic, however you will. I think it's a bigger problem than what you suggested today. Also, you said that you expect all MPs not to turn their heads, read notes, not to turn their heads from these phenomena, and that with such phenomena, or material damage, that is, for citizens who are full of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, of which public enterprises maintain certain installations, or that we do not turn our head against violence. It would have its logic that someone who has been identified has been punished for kidnapping and beatings in Vrbas or that responds to statements by individual MPs about who he is in which way and why he committed violence during the elections in Kosovo and Metohija. Nothing prevented the prosecutor from responding to the phenomena you want to prevent under the current Criminal Code. You said there were only two amendments, I assume you made a lapus. Only I have submitted two to the Criminal Code, I think my colleagues have submitted a total of seven amendments to your proposal for a criminal code, and I am expressing my suspicion, given that the proposal for this criminal code and that we can, in an amendment to Article 290, see the intention of following the FAP strike from Preboj, a proposal that is not clear enough, may affect what has followed Serbia since spring. The budget that came to the Assembly envisions a severance for 54,000 workers who will be out of work next year. At the first protest, at the first serious roadblock, or bus stop at Priboj, workers who do this because they want their problem heard, the biggest party in the ruling coalition reacts to this law. Since there was a solution in the Criminal Code that you would like to change in Article 290, where it is said to punish anyone who threatens public traffic and thereby puts the lives or bodies of people or property of a larger scale at risk. I do not see, or question whether the proposed changes are going in the direction that citizens and their rights continue with this kind of protection or that people are being banned from protesting for their rights. If someone protestes and reports a rally in the Republic Square and the gathering is slightly larger than expected, it may also take up a crossroads at the National Theatre. In this case, the police can file a criminal report because the meeting doesn't take place where the meeting is registered. If someone reported a walk, then went and walked team and these streets, if that walk takes place for some reason, people want to point to some problem, and that walk makes sense. It's completely pointless to influence freedom of assembly. Worst case scenario, it's a violation if you do things like that. I suggested the amendment, you probably looked at it, and I added that in rail traffic, existing members of the Criminal Law refer to setting up roadblocks, which endangers people's lives, and that no one can block an ambulance and people who need to solve their matter immediately and urgently, but that the right of people to protest is maintained. You, as a proponent in one of your conversions, said that this law is being passed because of children and investment in children, that it will prevent the repetition of certain crimes and public installations, thus public enterprises and the state of Serbia will save some money and that we will invest that money in our children, that is something that everyone would sign, only it took too long to bring it all down on some former authorities. It is enough for a year and a half to see that from investment in our children, more investment in our children when it comes to the existing ruling majority and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, there is nothing. This is the floscule we heard several times, the most important was when the Law on Public Procurement was adopted, in the departis of public enterprises, in the adoption of several budgets, rebalancing, etc. None of that is true. I am afraid, given the country's nervous reaction when workers have been able to protest for their rights for the first time during the term of office of this ruling coalition, the government is reacting to this by already providing compensation for 54,000 people who are going to lose their jobs and bringing changes to the Criminal Code which is very unclear when it comes to the right of people to protest for their rights. To suspend people's right to protest and thus point to their problem, as we had the opportunity to see that this protest was not there, no one from the government would appear there and suggest to people a solution that I hope will be realized as of March 1st as indicated. We are in a situation that a difficult economic situation that you are not capable of repairing and that you are trying to mask by 25 times a second-hand plane has been presented as something new, something great, something wonderful in Serbia. I urge you to accept the amendments we have proposed as a parliamentary group of the Democratic Party. We don't mind protecting public installations. I'm not talking about the fact that from your ranks when you were an opposition party voices came from a guy who can punish an unarmed people when he's protesting who he is who dares not understand people's anger when they're in a difficult situation, etc. With these amendments, we want to prevent what is in danger of happening, so it is an abuse of the law to prohibit the freedom of gathering of those who have been promised ten billion euros in investments, jobs, solving economic problems, increasing wages, pensions, everything that hasn't happened. The logical assumption is that the voter who voted for a political party, because of these promises, when these promises are clearly nothing, comes out and protestes for them. I hope the proposed changes to the Criminal Code don't go that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26599	Mr. Panic, please. The word is Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26600	I'm sorry, dear colleague, for crossing that line that no one has crossed in this debate today. Not in one single word today, and at least the people and the MPs of the SNS have accused anyone. Whether you hear anything else or not, I don't know, but in no single sentence I said that either director was supposed to be standing next to the pillar of the power line now or not last year, because there wouldn't be enough directors as many pillars as there are, and I think that this problem and this challenge of our society can be solved systematically, and the only way is a good law with restrictive measures and to raise and mobilise all of our society. We may not be able to fix it, if we're going to be moving in that vocabulary, but you're Mr. Panic, I don't mean you personally, but just leading the country over the past eight years has shown that you're capable of spoiling, and that's much greater damage than the damage that can be shown by someone who can't fix, who has ruined it. As the SNS treated the gatherings and then when we were opposition, opposition parliamentary group and opposition party, we showed at our meetings on 5 February and 16 April. No broken bottle, glass, every window, all the property of the city of Belgrade remains preserved, and the youth of the SNS is very responsible for both of these gatherings afterwards cleaned up all of that plastic and what would damage our city, because we are responsible for the property that is owned by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You won't see a stone in our hand, you won't see anything wrong in our hand. We'll face arguments, opinions, we're different and that's normal. We'll take suggestions, but we won't even let anyone on us roll stones, especially what's wrong and dishonest. The first Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Aleksandar Vucic spoke to the fans' leaders shows his attitude towards the state, shows his attitude towards the challenges of our society, because all those groups and all those parts of our society that are out of the system that no one is talking to, with which no one is even trying to introduce them into some normal and regular flows, will cause problems. Did you expect us to make trenches between us? No, we're not doing that. For each individual, every citizen of the Republic of Serbia wants to be within the framework of the system, within legal and regular flows, no matter how much it costs us both time and nerves and work and everything. It's a relationship between a responsible man like Mr. Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26601	Mr. Panic, I tolerated your exposure coming out of the context of the agenda. In your statement, you challenged that the bill promoter had to react. In his answer, he didn't say anything offensive to you. I followed well. He was just commenting on what you were saying. I don't think you have the right to a replica. If you're going to use the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure, don't abuse it. I am obliged to make sure that the session takes place according to the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26602	Article 104 misread my presentation. I really didn't have the wrong intention that you thought I had when you said I crossed a line that no one had crossed today in the debate. I'm glad we came to this level of political culture that when mass gatherings are held, mass protests...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26603	Please, I warned you. I gave you my word for hurting the Rules of Procedure. You're talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure to the extent that I've hurt the Rules of Procedure as chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26604	I was misread. I thought you gave me the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26605	I told you you had no right to reply, but I gave you my word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26606	Article 104, paragraph 1, misread my presentation in the part where my colleague thought that I, by crossing the border, wanted to offend someone here. I just wanted to explain it. Nothing else, just a replica of that fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26607	I was really correct, and I followed you, too, because you came out of context. You mentioned strikes, you mentioned a lot of questions. The moment I wanted to warn you, you were correct and you finished your discussion. In that sense, I thank you. But, please, we have an understanding. The fact is, you're a little out of line, but don't let us develop a theory about it now and we're having a needless discussion here beyond the agenda. The word is wanted by MP Srdjan Mikovic, on what basis?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26608	I'm an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26609	What do you want?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26610	According to Article 104, since I am an authorised representative of the DS, and it is said – you are capable of corrupting everything you have done, you have been able to corrupt it. That's what the discussion said. I'm asking if I can answer that. (President: No. All right, then I'm calling for article 27. Rules of Procedure regarding the conduct of the session itself, because you have different treatment. If called directly by the parliamentary group and in this way, and you did not respond when other participants in the debate mentioned whether the law was delivered in Kosovo by email, mail, like this, when it went off topic and there was no way you reacted. I don't think you have the same treatment. That's what I get.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26611	I have to admit, I'm either deaf or I don't really know anymore. I didn't hear that. I really want to be specific to everyone. I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure. I admit I didn't hear those things. Do you want us to make a statement on this in the voting day? (Srdjan Mikovic, from the place: No. Thank you. Once again, I have no special evil intentions, believe me, no one. I have no reason to be angry with you either. On the contrary, I believe that you have greater rights of criticism and all that is directed towards criticism, I will not warn you, but when it is in accordance with the agenda. It's someone I've seen. I really don't have any evil intentions towards anyone here. You're all like people to me, darling. The word has the People's MP Biljana Ilic Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26612	Mr. Chairman, dear fellow Members of the People, Mr. Babic, the proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Code that we are considering today came from the very obvious fact that the law must imitate life, in fact that life cannot wait too long. The news of everyday life, unfortunately, is the strongest argument to the necessity of such legal solutions. What interests me most as a citizen here is the question – how did we get here in the first place? How is it possible that in an old European civilization a sense of responsibility, for social well-being, for solidarity not to mention, could material misery be an excuse for the spiritual misery of a great part of society? How to explain the sophistication, I would say, socially quite autistic behavior of a worrying large number of individuals who reach out to calm souls, for example. After the shah cover, not thinking about the possible consequences? If I didn't talk about the guys who cut copper wires, they'd take off the rail tracks to resell them. How does trade in these materials work at all, or how is it possible that you can't get past that kind of black market that niggers can't be? Compared with such legal solutions, it is necessary to strengthen control over the transport of secondary raw materials, as this is the most logical order of action. The theft of public goods, which we are talking about here, will then be an incident, an individual incident, not a social phenomenon. Many other institutions, e.g. The municipal police, which and how they cost taxpayers. It happens that a man makes a cart to transport heat, so he gets the dots from the container, the ones where he throws in unhinged ash because the water pays in person, and the containers are paid by someone else, state, social, nobody, everyone's, public property as a partner's mare, although some local self-government is even circulating some information that they don't care much about such damage. They'll get new containers, there's an opportunity for what's called 10%, so if so, let's go upstairs. Many are inclined to blame for these forms of social arrogance on parents, families, the absence of home education, a school that neglects its educational role. It is likely that in each of these segments lies a part of the explanation of these problems, because it is quite true that society cannot be regulated by a high degree of repressive measures, at least not strictly rigorous punishments. It's also too high to remind that in the lobby of every law there's a moral code whose sanctions are more guilty of conscience on a personal basis, and condemnation of the middle of a group plan, but kids nowadays feel it's not immoral to steal, nor punishable to steal, unless you're stupid enough to get caught or if you don't have any protection, or if you don't have money for expensive lawyers. After all, everything that has happened to us in the near past, from the abduction of the social property then to the savage, and it is little to say, unfair privatisations, and in this way comes to us today, because for years, political and business elites have been sent unsaved, but a clear message that everything that is useful is acceptable and that morals do not live here and that social reputation can be bought with money or any form of power. Now, there is a great deal of storage in which the state sends a clear message that neither is to be stolen nor is it worth it whether political contemplants or non-experienceds, as well as the perpetrators will be punished, and illegally acquired property taken away and returned to those from whom it has been kidnapped and that the most mouth will be fed by a folk kitchen called justice whose portions must be equal for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26613	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26614	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us today a bill on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, which was submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, or MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party, and this may not be unusual for the assembly's debate, it is an authorised promoter, that there have already been several proposals for amendments and amendments to the law. The Democratic Party submitted three amendments and additions to the Criminal Code during the previous period. The SVM, as Mr Pastor said today, has submitted its proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Code and none of these proposals have entered the Assembly procedure, but has entered the Serbian Progressive Party's proposal, or Serbian Progressive Party MPs, not as counterpart Srdjan Mikovic said, normally for this area to be a proposal from the government, a proposal that would in some way consider the current application of the Criminal Code and in all those areas for which it is necessary to make changes on the basis of an application analysis, give adequate proposals for changing individual members. No, we are now going with a law that has some provisions, which we can agree on, but we must take seriously and discuss the content of individual members and especially the last member of this bill - Article 5, and this bill has a total of six members. We certainly won't tell the citizens anything new if we say that the increase in criminality in society is evident, that on the streets of more violence, and as someone said yesterday, that parents are making sure that their children come home alive, healthy and unhurt, and not what grade school will bring, that we have almost every day of the murder in Novi Sad, Belgrade, the collection of criminal groups, that we have amnesty for the serious number of criminals that this government has somehow entered the mandate and that we don't have an adequate answer to stop it. It's not at all controversial for the DS, we even mentioned in the discussions that the crimes that are heading towards the destruction of the infrastructure are present, that every day from our streets, the lids for the water, the sewerage, the heat line, that the pipes disappear, that even the pillars of the power lines disappear, that the trafo station disappears. You, gentlemen, have made this very detailed today, subliminal and startled me with all that data. Even as someone who's dealt with it, and I've really pointed out those facts, I'm amazed by how far that crime has come, that we are literally in the state's disassembly phase in terms of its infrastructure. Believe it or not, it's data from the day before yesterday, from Novi Sad to Belgrade has a 100km highway, stolen during this year's 20km steel fence. Imagine what the director of the Serbian Roads company does, what his workers do, what the police do, what the prosecution does, what do courts do when he's off the highway, which the bird couldn't even get into, takes 20km of fences? Seven, eight days ago, when I was coming back to Novi Sad, I wondered why there was no light at the entrance, or at the exit to Novi Sad. The next day I read the paper and it says, "The transformer has been stolen." Before that, some people were killed, some injured by the fact that there was no lighting on the stock, which was a statement from "The Way of Serbia". Gentlemen, you've been in power for a year and a half. Gentlemen, what are you doing? What are all these authorities doing? What are "Serbian Ways" doing? What are all these organs doing? The Minister's not here right now. Would you stay cold on this? The country in this segment is being demoted. You demote it in other segments, but in this segment the infrastructure is also demoted. You put before us a bill on amending and supplementing the Penal Code that sharpens the fines, which introduces some new criminal acts. How will we apply the new Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code when you have failed to apply the provisions of the existing Criminal Code? Was it allowed to cut the fence on the highway, carry it and sell it in secondary raw materials? Well, who's holding that junk? Who keeps the collection centers where the raw materials are collected and go to the smelter? Well, who in this country can allow people's heroes, writers, writers, writers, to disappear completely, to be engaged in a smelting and melting monuments to victims of different terrors, fascism? Who in their right mind can let that happen? This is all happening in this country and you're giving us a six-member proposal and you think that's how you're gonna handle it? Well, each of us raises our hands if you think that's how you're gonna handle it, but you won't. You haven't even applied the provisions of the existing law. You have here submitted a proposal to amend and supplement the Codes with which you presented today that you want to protect the state from criminals. Do you protect the state from criminals and Article 5, which says in Article 290 paragraph 1, after saying, "traffickers" is added to the words "stopping rail transport against regulations"? I can't help wondering how it's possible and is it really a coincidence that this member in this amendment came to Priboj to protest workers who haven't been paid for months, and whom Mr. Radulovic wants a happy New Year with empty envelopes, and hundreds of thousands of workers want such Christmas and New Year's? Mr. Wolf tells them to get off the rails because they won't talk to them until they get off the rails. You donate changes and additions to the Criminal Code and practically tell them no, no, you won't protest on the track. Neither are we to protest on the track. So we're not about to protest on the track, stop traffic, stop citizens from travelling, make sure the goods can't travel, cause damage to the factories for which we somehow brought foreign investors into the country, unlike you who didn't bring any investors. Someone's saying there are two. I really don't know about them. Maybe they signed the pre-contracts, which we won't see from. So, this amendment to the Criminal Code will solve the problem of social separation in Serbia and the fact that citizens are going into the store, thinking whether today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, Krstic's law will come into effect where VAT from 8% will rise to 10% or even 20% for some products, the fact that many will lose their jobs, the fact that they will be reduced by Mr Krstic's benefits, measures. Will this amendment to the code, Mr. Babic, address you as an authorised representative, solve this problem? If he wants to, we'll raise both our hands again to vote for this law. But the problem is not solved by the increasingly difficult socio-economic situation and the situation of citizens in Serbia by banning the strike on the track, and stopping the train, as the last measures that these people resorted to in despair without any hope of being helped, because Mr Radulovic said clearly – there is no more money for companies in transformation, and we do not know how we will implement that transformation. Mostly, hundreds of thousands of people will be out of work, or sometimes he says 50,000, depending on how he probably did his math in the morning. Gentlemen, I hold in my hand the government of Serbia document that would make any government in the world fall, which would make any Prime Minister resign immediately. This document came out of the government today. You gentlemen will have to say your word about this document. You'll have to explain everything in this document. He's public. It's just what I'm telling you about, that while you're banning roadblocking, you're spending your heartless money on Serbian citizens. For what? To your promotions, election campaigns. With what? Serbia's citizens' money intended entirely for other purposes. So, gentlemen, MPs, who are proposing these amendments and supplementing the law, the DS has the will to support some of these provisions that sanction criminal acts and new crimes that damage and destroy infrastructure and goods that are previously protected. There's no dispute here. But again, we have cowardly eggs, like the Law on Higher Education, which is why we are in a great dilemma about how to support the previous members. On the other hand, we believe this will not solve the issue of crime in Serbia. We don't think he'll solve it. You didn't convince us. You were talking about the number of cases. You didn't say how many criminal charges were filed, how many criminal charges were filed, at which stage, whether any proceedings had become obsolete, whether one of the returnees who were amnesty had committed the crime, etc., etc. If we had heard that analysis, even in contrast to what I said we could vote for it, we do not have any guarantee that these amendments and additions to the Criminal Code will improve the situation in this area in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26615	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26616	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Serbian Progressive Party since our founding five years ago has been accused of everything and everything. But this is the first time we've been charged with psychicism. I just don't understand how it's possible, and if you're looking at the dates, you can see that there's no logic here, that in the assembly procedure, the SNS Group is referring to a bill amending the Code of Criminal Code on 23 October 2013, knowing in advance that there will be a roadblock in Priboj on 31 October. So we're seven days ahead of time, we know when there's gonna be a strike. We know when what law, everything in advance we have to do. It's unserious, gentlemen. To make this an argument for a law written before October 23rd, which was released in the October 23rd procedure, to prevent something that only happened ten days after that. Please, do we need to discuss this? That's the basics they write on every bill. Before you screw up the pebble, you see what the winch is on. See what kind of wave he'll make and see if that wave matches you. You said, "What do these directors do, what does this irresponsible government do?" Why are you doing this? Why are you making waves? Look, dear Mr. Veselinović, who was responsible for the operations in 2008 at the EMS? Eight million 629 million dinars of damage in 2010, 10 million 232. The Serbian Progressive Party probably. This government is responsible for what it did before. Did I say that once in today's debate? Did I point my finger at someone ex or next, or don't I know who? I didn't. No, because this is our society's problem. You said "The railroad," let's take a look at that data. You're not gonna like it. Who ran the Railroad in 2011? The damage to the Railways is 330 million dinars. Now, using your vocabulary, I should say your political address -- so what that director was doing, they're all like this, they're all like that. There won't be enough directors to guard every car, every rail, every ramp, every power line, if we don't have laws, if we don't raise society, if we don't raise awareness of our society that this is a problem, if there are people who justify such a thing. Who brought us to this poverty? Who led us to this unemployment rate? What do we have to do now? It's a big unemployment rate, it's a lot of poverty, you steal people. We can't do that. But as long as these people have an excuse for someone's petty political points, not even taking care of their dates, we'll have a problem. I'm afraid we're going to run on that treadmill wanting to bring our society forward, but someone's going to keep going back and forth, looking forward to why we're not going forward. Because he thinks he can run faster on that treadmill. You can't, gentlemen. You've shown that you can't. Why didn't you do this in 2010? Only in 2013 was the auto-road theft, 2011 was not. In the tunnel, roundabouts of Belgrade, I almost made a car crash. There's no lighting. Stole the aggregate. What does a child know about 300 pounds? Did I say - it's the mayor of Belgrade's fault? I didn't. It's the law that didn't have strong enough, that didn't target everyone in the chain of theft and property, and that's what we want. That's what we came before this parliament, asking for support. We haven't said one thing today, nor will we ever say it, that it's some former director's fault. You expected me to know how many procedures were carried out. Sir, colleague Vesenovic, should I or you, as a member of the People's Parliament, as a people involved in politics, know the data from the judiciary? Should we influence the judiciary? No, I don't. I'm sorry, please, I don't want to, because the Constitution says otherwise. I don't want to, as former state president Boris Tadic did, and I watched that show on TV with a national frequency when he said -- well, you know, I offered Mr. Nikolic that he set up some judges and he didn't want to. Of course he won't, of course he won't come out of the Constitution. Who am I to appoint judges? You? To influence the judiciary? It's an independent branch of government. This shows the seriousness of a country. I can tell you how many mistakes have been made, how many hits on public enterprises have been made and how much damage has been done. The procession and everything else is done by an independent branch of government that has nothing to do with parliament, MPs and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Read the Constitution, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26617	National MP Janko Veselinović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26618	Comrade Granny, there's no reason to yell. I've been very calm, and I haven't given you any reason to be so loud. I was talking about amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, which I thought were not an adequate response to the situation in this area. For truth's sake, Mr. Babic, the FAP workers in Priboj announced a radicalisation of the strike blockage of the railway road 23 days before the roadblock. So that was significant before you wrote this member who and a child who can read see that he doesn't belong here. It's about stealing infrastructure, it's about destroying cultural goods, and suddenly it's showing up - stopping traffic on tracks. What does that have to do with destroying the infrastructure and stealing the shafts on the streets? On the other hand, Mr. Babico, it's not exactly like we don't have to follow what's going on and going on in the judiciary. We have a clear division of the legislative, executive and judicial authority. The legislative authority adopts laws and proposes laws. Today, what you've done is you're being denied. It's just that you did it one bad way, in an inadequate, inadequate way. You had to have an analysis that was supposed to stand in this explanation. You should have said that the judiciary, acting on so many cases, has imposed so many penalties that have been inadequate to prevent new crimes or offences... (President: Time, Mr. Veselinovic. ) This is our task, Mr. Granny, not to raise your voice when it comes to the fact that you could have done it the other way.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26619	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26620	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is already one legality here when it comes to the laws proposed by this authority, alienated from both the people and the reality. There are some rules when the SNS or the Government of the Republic of Serbia propose law and these rules are already clearly visible and clearly defined. The first rule is that every time you pass the law you use to strengthen the dictatorship in this country. The second rule is that with every law that you bring, you try to insert a cowardly egg from which a new evil will come out very quickly. The third rule is that you pass laws from case to case, quickly, without any professional analysis, without considering the consequences that this law will produce for society. The fourth rule is that we are here already witnessing the usual parliamentary practice - obstructions of parliamentary work by the parliamentary majority. This agenda item we're discussing today, and this bill is the best paradigm and mirror of what I'm talking about. In return, you proposed the agenda, where, with the point of amendments and addition of the Criminal Law, you put something that had nothing to do with the Criminal Law, which is the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration, so you included the Bill on State Officials. And then you realized that you wrote a bad law, and then you pulled it back, and then you pushed three or four ratifications, and we discussed it, by the way, when we were discussing Criminal Law. I need to ask you a few things, when it comes to this motion to amend the Criminal Code. First, I have to ask you why the Republic of Serbia, why is it necessary for citizens of the Republic of Serbia to put changes proposed by the SNS on the agenda, and they are not good changes proposed by the DS? Explain to me what's wrong with the amendments to the Criminal Code that I handed over on December 12th, when I became a National MP? I'll tell you what I gave up after you didn't read it. I asked for two new crimes to be included in the Criminal Law on 12 December 2012. The first is the purchase of academic titles to raise candidates in the election process with a measure of non-depreciation of the crime. The second crime I have proposed is to present false election results and to harass the public of information about alleged election theft. You never wanted to put that on the agenda. You put this on. Why are you putting this on the agenda, and these laws that the DS is proposing aren't? Because you're transparent. Everything you do is so transparent as to be made of glass. Your legs must be glassy, and that's why you're kneeling. Why do we see so well through you? Just now, a colleague of yours, Janko Veselinović, caught you not being psychics but coming to you 23 days before you wrote this law that workers in Priboj would block both the railway and the roads and then hit the workers more quickly. Why don't you apply these laws that already exist? What happened to the law, so-called. Maria's law? Read me the names and last names of the people that are registered in the Rape Register for this time in which the law applies. I guess there's one in there. You'll give me blank paper if I let you write me a name. Now let me go back to Criminal Law and his changes. First of all, as far as petty thefts are concerned, I absolutely support that any theft of a municipal inventory that threatens the safety of citizens and normal functioning of citizens is sanctioned, to sanction the purchaser. It doesn't matter that you've ruined Serbia so much that people steal to feed themselves. It's a criminal act. Everyone has to work and crime must not be promoted in any form. Now a little something about some of the provisions of this law. Why didn't you put the thefts in the cemetery here? You don't say exactly that they're also thefts. They were re-reading these secondary raw materials collectors all possible elements from the tombstones. Everything's being stolen alive. Look at what the cemetery looks like. Recently there were suffocations, broken copper vases, crosses, those ornaments, even those letters are stolen. That should be sanctioned. It's barbaric. When we treat our cemeteries that way, we don't have to ask ourselves what's wrong with cemeteries that aren't under our jurisdiction anymore. Let's get back to what's going on with the roadblock. That's where you're predicting a three-year prison sentence. That, of course, occurred to you after the FAP strike in Priboj. You didn't think of that before. When you heard that the workers would block the track, you better hit the workers faster. Now the FAP workers, and you too, my Kruševljani "14 October", who are currently on strike in a city that has been taken as an example. In the town of Krushevac, you know, a social time bomb. Today several hundred Kruševljani are out of work, "SHIK", "Red Stars" and Oil Factory. Today they were told there is no salvation for them. Now I have to ask you, let's think like this – what will you do if before the second round of local elections in northern Kosovo and Metohija the population there is blocking the Kraljeno-Zvecan railway? What will you do if citizens come out on the overpass and block the railroad? You want to tell them -- now we're going to apply the law of the Republic of Serbia to you, and you're going to go to elections according to the laws of Kosovo, and we're going to arrest you for three years? Well, it's a roadblock. You didn't give up Kosovo and Metohija, did you? Or, when the railway is blocked there, will Justice Minister Selakovic go to Dvori and Face? He said he'd always come out when they invited him to take a walk with them, to apologize a little bit. You know, Serbian citizens, the dictatorship should always be answered by ridiculed dictators. Now I'm asking you a few things. Why isn't this law complete? What, just blocking the railroad, which isn't blocking the seaways? Here, I can already see what the blockage of Belgrade-Stalic-Grave-Glasbužda channel looks like, and that's in Stalac. Lost the SNS election, the president of the water polo alliance enters the channel, grabs his hands, stands next to him by the president of the swimming alliance and the president of the Association of Artistic Swimming, around the coast are owned by those sympathisers, members who don't know how to swim at the Styrofoam, and then the police must send people to frogs, divers, gendarmes, cranes, and I take the ferry to the assembly session, late and watch police intervention because the sea route is blocked. Of course, when the ferry goes down in the water, I'm sure I see an exotic name. Imagine a blockage of plane traffic. For example, the next plane is called "Laza Lazarevic". All the ministers get on the plane, sit down, play chess, that's good, relax the brain, fly on a war plane escort, and someone's blocking the air traffic. Why didn't you provide for the provisions of this law? Why doesn't imagination work here? (President: Mr. Milivoevich, I must confess, you made me laugh too. I'm sorry, I'm done. (Chairman: Please, you've gone too far after all. I thank you. I'm done. So, I don't think the legislator predicted all the possibilities. Either he doesn't believe in the Belgrade-Stalic-Grad-Gravbužde-Solun waterway project, or he thinks the laws are passed here just to hit the workers. There are no factories in Cicevic, they will not block the sea roads. There's a railroad in Priboj and Kruševec, there's a railroad, hit the workers there. In the end, I must tell you, it is necessary, when we obey these laws, to first and foremost pass a law on the protection of citizens from this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26621	The next speaker is Marijan Risticevic. Marianne, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26622	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm so touched and moved by these moving speeches, I don't know where to start. I've been hit a lot, of course, for the simple reason that this is about roadblocks of important cars that should have been known the moment when the farmers in Sapac were scattered savagely on the bridge. Not to say who held the power then, not to say how many peasants got criminal charges because they dared to rebel against the price of pigs loathing parities in agricultural production. A cattleman might know that anyway. However, he counts that our people have short memories, so he did not want to talk about it. As far as the situation in Laza Lazarevic is concerned, I believe he is a good knower of that condition there. But I also believe he's not a doctor. As for the blockade on the Belgrade-Stalic maritime traffic station, the foundation is slowly being built, the project is just being done, but I suppose he will be the first to demonstrate when it is built, that he will prevent gondola until he sells all his burgers and kebabs. So, I want to believe that this law that we're making right now is going to bring some profits to him too. Well, back to the subject of the agenda. I signed this a little while ago, on October 23rd, we didn't all get together, 65 of us didn't get together the same day, but that date doesn't matter that much. We had the following facts in mind back then. I collected something that happened in 2013, and most of these thefts that took place in major utility systems, especially in the EPS, occurred in 2007 through 2011. Let's say, I'll say 05.01.2012 - miles of railroad stolen. Then, during 2013 a pillar of power lines stolen. On 22.10.2011, he scraped three kilometers of railroad, and on 08.12., a thief earned five million because he was caught reselling secondary raw materials. Then let's go – the target of the copper mafia, April 2012, BIA phones. So, among other things, they also managed to steal copper and from there, unrelated to who then held power. Further, the processing of secondary raw materials in Pazova. The large amount that disappeared in Srem was processed in Old Paz in 2012, where secondary raw materials were purchased. Then, copper from the church in April 2011 and shahta in Subotica during the new government. So, 350 shahts disappeared in 2012, while the republican government held both DS and after the SNS power carrier. Also, we have texts from April 26, 2007, July 30, etc. Then, we have July 30, 2012, Bela Palanka – died while trying to steal copper in a trafostation, etc. What I'm saying is that these were the motives for which we brought this amendment and the addition of the Criminal Code, given that two things should be done. One thing is to protect the lives of the thieves themselves. A few have already died. One was killed in Somboro while Elektrodicion tried to establish a power system. Since he was interrupting it, there was a death of the thief himself. Also, in the White Palace and in a few other places, thieves themselves were killed during the theft. That's one of the motives. The other of the motives is the security of the citizens themselves. In Belgrade alone, much has disappeared since the traffic signalling, although Belgrade has 335 municipal police officers, while other environments do not have police officers. When they failed to save bronze from fountains in Belgrade, some cultural treasures, etc., when they failed to preserve in Belgrade and have 335 municipal police officers, how do they do so in the territory of Serbia at all? The first thing to do is to be more restrictive in prevention, that is to threaten some major punishments, which we have tried to do, thinking that there will be a general approval that, in order to protect life and health and perpetrators and citizens, unequivocally provide support for such a single legislative project. This led us to write this bill, wanting to share the merits of this law on the security of citizens and thieves themselves with others. It didn't occur to us that by some strike that took place in Priboj, which was certainly justified and finally solved by the government itself and the vice president of the government, we would prevent someone from coming out on the rails of trade union demands. Also, I want to say that I was even more rigid, so I asked that this traffic signalling thing be classified into this real attitude, that instead of three years, the punishment would be eight years in prison for stealing traffic signals that don't include traffic devices, so I wanted those aluminum thieves, too, but they were thought to be there first, because most of these perpetrators are from one minority group, in order to be wronged accordingly. So it's about traffic signals that often disappears due to aluminium theft. In its documentation dating back to the rule of the former regime, there is evidence that these thefts took place before 2007. So in 2007, they're here and they're happening now. It should act preventively to prevent these thefts, I said for reasons of increasing the safety of all citizens, including the perpetrators themselves. What should be said next, that I tried to propose this law, to see what experiences from other countries are going on. I think the Germans went the farthest in it and there's something to apply in other laws. First of all, it is also necessary to amend the customs law to control the origin when exporting raw materials, that without the control of origin, such raw materials cannot be carried out. In parallel with this, some internal and other regulations must be brought into line that in utility companies, primarily on the railways, try to mark the visible and invisible, to know whose stolen raw materials are possible. Therefore, the control of the purchaser of secondary raw materials can be determined whether it comes from public utility systems or whether it is regularally bought iron, copper, lead, aluminium, etc. These are experiences from these countries. The Germans apply a certain type of coating that the perpetrators of the theft cannot solve, which is seen to be easily established by an ultraviolet lamp, but the perpetrator cannot in any way deny these clues. So he can't take them off with anything. In this way, it can be established whether he was involved in the theft of these vitals, especially railways and traffic, whether he was the perpetrator or not during his activities. They're experiences, and that's why besides this law, I believe that we need to change and coordinate other regulations, and that this is the beginning. I think we'll have undivided support. To begin with, for security reasons, it was very good and acceptable for all MPs and MPs. I believe that regardless of these sparks that were on both sides, I still believe that this law will be passed almost unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26623	Mr. Millyvoy, I will give you my word, with one note, that we may still be worthy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26624	I thank Mr. Chairman, so only the truth works. The Democratic Party has already organised protests against these authorities and these protests have been very peaceful and non-violent. No one sat on the Styrofoam. Sitting on the Styrofoam, it produces amnesia following recent research of people forgetting what they were doing for 10 years as soon as they sat on the Styrofoam. In Novi Sad, we protested the increase in violence and crime, although during this protest in Novi Sad, we were exposed to provocations by those who received the directive, to come out and insult people from the DS. We have not responded to these provocations. We demonstrated and protested with dignity, pointing to the irregularities that appear in our society. On the other hand, if you want to talk about this law, here's just one example of the life of roadblocking. Imagine, my colleague leaves Vrnjaka Banja from Nova Sela, and I leave Ugljareva to crash at a spring crossing. If one of us drives wood, the wood falls on the track. Is that a stop or is that a traffic jam? Do we have to go to jail for three years because we were tried at the crossing? You didn't predict it in this law that someone could fall on a circular crossing, so that he's blocking the lineage? Don't show him that you're sufflocating, it doesn't say, we've made an amendment, we've written it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26625	Thank you. The word is Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26626	One sentence. I believe that my colleague Milivojevic and I can make it, we're living people, that we can commit a traffic violation. I've been driving a car for 20 years and a few years, and I've never had that experience before, and I don't think so, and I don't want that kind of experience to tie me to Mr. Milivojevic. But what I'm sure we can't do is crash at a spring crossing. That railroad used to be alive, and now kids who are seven, ten years old, who are as old as my younger daughter, don't know what the train looks like. There's no train coming through. You closed it. There aren't any of those stripes. There are no trains, Mr. Milivojevic, which we used to believe both you and I in the '90s, driving from our neighborhood to Belgrade where we studied. They're gone, no traffic. It didn't happen and it hasn't happened in the last year and a half, it's happened in the last ten years. But don't forget then, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. All you remember is what's been the last year, year and a half. It's selective. The citizens will be the best to judge. In the election, everyone will bring judgment then on what we do and how we do it. According to the trust we have in Vrbas, Zemun, Kovina, and wherever the elections were, and we will show in Belgrade, so we will see who will trust and what confidence they will have in the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26627	The word is Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26628	I think your esteemed colleague Babic said the point only that she has a logical mistake. So if there are no trains, I quote -- no railways, no kids remember, there are no spring crossings, what do you bring to change the law? Very simple questions. We both know that there are trains and railways, not in the amount that is needed and not in the extent that it was. Which is not improved rail traffic, which is slow, which is inefficient, which is still very often happening, people die, Mr. Babic at those crossings, is responsible for a certain Sima from Grocka who eats truffles and who reduces costs on one side and increases on the other side. The truth works, so he did cut some costs but he enormously increased others. Go to Grock, go to his neighborhood and ask people today who are advancers what they think about who he is and how he hired at JP "The Railways of Serbia". That's not correct. By the way, I think if we're talking about support, that's where we agreed a long time ago for you and me and our parties to see these things best in the election. To truly be seen in the elections, they must indeed be in a fair atmosphere, without violence, without beatings, kidnapping of activists from other parties. That so far, how do I say, the condition of son qya non, you have not met to have a democratic state in the fullest sense. Unfortunately, you didn't fill it. As long as things happen that happened in Vrbas, Zemun, and Zajecar, and Mitrovica, we won't have a normal political system. That's what's saddest in this whole story that you can't see, and you have the greatest responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26629	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26630	I was very precise. The question was, can we both crash at a spring crossing in Ugljarevo? We can't. In Uglarev, there are no trains. There are no trains in Kruševec. No trains, weeded into weeds. There's people walking along the tracks, not thinking whether or not, God forbid they're going to have an accident. Is there an accident at Serbia's spring crossings? Yes, there is, of course. For your information, Mr Stefanovic, to complete the railway work of Corridor 10, we as a state, not a party, not foreigners, we as a state, need 4.7 billion euros. Kilometers of 767 railway works, the railway section of Corridor 10 passes through Serbia's territory. Ninety-two percent of freight traffic from Europe goes to Corridor 11 through Hungary and Romania, because the average speed on our tracks is 30, 40km, and we have no speed, nor security. For what? Because of the SNS maybe? Or because of the contracts we ratified here in this House, Mr Stefanovic, you were not an MP, you were dealing with some other things at that time. One hundred million euros to complete the railway work of Corridor 10. At that moment, the government had no answer on which part would end, being a two-wheeled electric rail. For the 100,000 euros that the Serbian government was in charge at that time, we bought locomotives. No railways, no cargo, no traffic, no debts, no locomotives where politics got in a fight after whether they were located in a depot in Novi Sad or in Nis. Why was the Law on Railways not even passed at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at that time? It's because of the fight politics. Don't blame everything on the SNS. And if we were Houdini, we couldn't finish all of this country for years, if we were magicians. But it looks like the Styrofoam and that amnesia are using well, at least in this part around Rasina.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26631	Mr. Stefanovic, I think we're done here. Please, the replica has now crossed the agenda and I don't want the replica to be conducted now on Styrofoams, on railways, on roads that aren't built, that have nothing to do with the law. You opened it. You mentioned Styrofoam. I'll give it to you, but I won't give it to you anymore. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26632	Thank you. The truth is, we did have controversy, you heard, around the railroad, whose blockade is an integral part of the amendments to the Criminal Code. So the Styrofoam was mentioned on both sides. Of course, Styrofoam is a material that has, as you know, certain psychopolitical powers and in that sense we explained it. That's how I interpret it. Otherwise, I'll just say one thing. When you mention the government about the railways, and I have asked you before, please and now, talk to Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic and Mr. Velija Ilic, don't talk to us about it, about the application of the loan and whether something has happened. The government was led by people who are now sitting with you and who do not run the systems directly, but are led by you and for almost half of the mandate, which makes it impossible for you to find an excuse in the past, according to me. I may not be right, but it is the people who deny what you have said – "goes to Mile Lykovaga railway and thinks about the Criminal Code with another" and that is what you are doing today in Serbia, Mr Babic. You have the whole of Serbia, unfortunately today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26633	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Excuse me, Mr. Granny. Babic here is an authorised representative as a bill promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26634	Neither yourself nor the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, nor did you at least convince us of the document sent to the assembly procedure on October 23rd, written significantly earlier, with a strike that took place on October 31st. So, seven days after that. You can't convince yourself of that either. Speaking of people's wetlands, I'm going to have a very simple one, not singing, and they say in the Serbian people "smart down".
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26635	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has a People's MP, Srdjan Mikovic, you have nine minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26636	I'm just asking you to calm down my fellow Members of the People's Parliament and not count me that time. I tried my best during the first part of my discussion to be gentle, especially to my water polo friend, I think it's my duty as a friend. True, it is my duty to make clear as a National MP what is important for the work of the congregation. I've tried as the Banacans teach us, to make a very pietomous and fine point to certain significant boasts in the procedure that have arisen. I see I've been attacked for it, it can't be scarier. The fact is that we have now received information that this bill has been written significantly earlier than October 23rd. If it's much earlier, which is then an emergency procedure, which hasn't been left for 15 days for all of us to see, to consult both the government and all those who can contribute to better text. Somewhere is not true or whether the law has been written before or whether emergency procedures are needed. Come on, make a deal. Now, we tried to consider this law and we had a few pieces, we met several times, among other things October 31st was the first session of the Justice Committee, where I was hoping we'd get to that point of the agenda, we didn't get there, but there were no representatives of the promoters. Furthermore, on 4 November, it was a session of the Committee on Justice again, and later the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and there were no representatives. You see, the one who wrote this material has written – according to Article 151(5). Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic has been appointed as the speaker. I suppose that the one who has been designated, I have assumed to this day, that he knows what it says in Article 151 paragraph 5, and that is – if the legislator is a group of MPs, he must, along with a proposal, be a representative of the motionor, and if not done, it is believed that the proposing representative is the first signed MP. At committee meetings, neither was the first signed nor there were representatives, and the representative was supposed to come, not first signed, but a representative, okay, and it wasn't done. If we were able to talk then, then we could make it clear there that nothing new in the law itself, as they say, has been targeted. It all exists, except two forms of crime have now been introduced in article 279. One form that will never happen and another form that will happen. I urge all of you to escort this out and see all the expertise or intricacies in this matter. Believe me, in the first part of the discussion, I didn't want to go into that part, but now I have to talk about the metrics and show the practical essence. It says – whoever destroys, damages, changes, makes it unusable or removes a public device for water, sewerage, heat, gas, electricity or public transport and communications systems, or parts of these devices, will be punished by imprisonment. Then it is said – if part of the position of the 1st member is caused by the disturbance of the citizens and the functioning of the economy, i.e. public traffic, it will be punished more severely. Now explain to me whether there is any way to destroy a system or part of such an important system without causing a disturbance in the lives of citizens and the functioning of the economy. We've had it as one attitude so far. Now they're separated into two positions where a practical crime from the first attitude will never happen, because if there's no disorder to what kind of crime it is in this, is there a theft in that second, a pair of gloves, and that's regulated by another criminal act? It is deleted if the work is done out of neglect, the possibility of minor punishment. That's what I wanted to talk to the board about, to suggest that we fix it, whether there's expertise or there's no expertise, and how much expertise there is, that more people see. I would very much like to do on the next Justice Committee, if possible, to fix the current text of the law and what Srdjan Milivojevic is, regardless of his profession as a lawyer, but pointed out the thefts in the cemetery. That should get into a live special protection and that's a good idea. It's a good thing there was a discussion at the plenary session. There's a chance it can be fixed. Finally, once again, in the document that has been delivered to us all, that fine, fated document, 28 December 2012, our government has promised us that by March of the month, it will mean by March, that it will be as an act proposed by the Government to the National Assembly in the procedure, the Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the KZ. There is no excuse that later the strategy was adopted, it was done in July. The deadline was March. It was a failed first-April joke, which the government didn't do until April 1st, but all of it shows that everyone here is obviously doing what they shouldn't do, and those who have an obligation to do something don't do it. As my esteemed colleague says - let's do it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-07-0.u26637	According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint general and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in points 5, 14, 15, 16 and 17 of the agenda. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you very much.
