ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17402	The Honorable Chairman-in-Office of the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as the MP of the SVM a few weeks ago, I raised a question about the problem of the registration of accession machines in agriculture. Unfortunately, even today this issue has not been resolved, despite the fact that the Assembly Committee on Agriculture is also dealing with this topic, and this material is also addressed to the Ministry of the Interior. Therefore, I would like to refer a question to the authorities in the MUP, as well as to the Director of the Police, Mr Milorad Veljovic and the Chief of Transport Police, Mr Dragisa Simic, why did they not respond to the request of the Committee on Agriculture regarding the problem of registration of connected machinery in agriculture? The Transport Safety Act provides that each vehicle must be registered. We don't have any problem with that. Of course, they have no problem, no agricultural producers, no objection to that registration. The problem, however, is that some agricultural and connected machinery manufacturers and that they wish they could not register and therefore, unfortunately, they also get fines. The problem is in the Regulation concerning the registration of motor vehicles and connected vehicles, where it is stated that each vehicle to be registered must be subject to technical examination prior to registration. During the technical examination, vehicle data must be provided. Of course, there are conditions that a vehicle must meet. The problem here is that some connected machines in agriculture do not meet the conditions prescribed and do not meet it in a factory way. It's about corn pickers. It's about pantographs. It's about fertilizer destroyers. It's about two-point plates. It's about tanks. It's about presses. The most common problems that farmers have is that they do not have the first bill on the purchase of that machine. These machines have neither the number of the boxes nor the air brakes, nor the signalling, and therefore cannot pass the technical examination. That's what the traffic police know, but no matter what, they're punishing agricultural producers for not registering connected machines. On the Committee on Agriculture, we unanimously decided to try to resolve this issue, and as a committee, we sent a letter to the competent MUP. We have sent material with penalties, with the signatures of agricultural producers against this provision, as well as an invitation letter to the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture. Unfortunately, there's no answer today, no matter what it was a month ago. I believe that every ministry should respect the very institution of the National Assembly, as well as its committees. On this occasion, I appeal to the director of police, Mr. Milorad Veljovic and the chief of the Traffic Police Administration, Mr. Dragis Simic, to suspend the punishment of agricultural producers until this problem is resolved. As a member of the SVM, I do not think that we should additionally burden our agricultural producers and expect an answer to the asked question as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17403	The People's MP, Zechariah Trnavcevic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17404	I would like to ask you, on Thursday, last Thursday, May 30th, will there be an opportunity for us MPs to ask government and ministers questions? I'm warning you, we didn't have it in April. This institution of parliamentary issues is very important not only for me, but also for all the MPs, as an opportunity to ask public governments and ministers questions instead of making a correspondence, etc. In Articles 27, 103 and 205. The rules of procedure are regulated by this matter. I ask the President and the National Assembly's presidency to keep an eye on the session in one session, the last session of any month, starting with not questioning whether or not Thursday's session will be held from 16:00 to 1900 hours, with the possibility of asking questions to the government. It's very important to me, I don't know about others, but I hope I speak in the interest of other MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17405	Thank you. Let me answer you right now. If the conditions set out in the Rules of Procedure are met, the session will be held last Thursday. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17406	Thank you. I have two questions for Minister Selakovic. The statements by Minister Selakovic that in ads for the selection of judges and deputies of public prosecutors, which are currently being held, the legal advantage will be given to the members of the Judicial Academy, as Minister Selakovic said that he is also personally close to the members of the first generation of the Judicial Academy and that after the addition of the network of courts, a new competition for the selection of judges will be opened, on which he will be able to report judges regardless of the fact that they are not graduates of the Judicial Academy, thus breaking the constitutional principle to the authorities and exerting pressure on the bodies designated as a guarantee of independence and independence of the judiciary, above all I mean the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Major Prosecutors, thus making those competitions in advance certain. My question to Minister Selakovic is – why did he make such statements in the first place? Namely, the VSS is defined by the Constitution as an independent and independent body providing and guaranteeing the independence and independence of courts and judges, and the State's Chief Prosecutors is also an independent body providing and guaranteeing the independence of the public prosecutors and the deputy public prosecutors, and it is in accordance with the Constitution and their duty to propose to the National Assembly to elect the holder of the justice functions of the best candidate, whoever these candidates are, since it is also because of this and the independence of the State's general interest. It seems to me that the Ministry, particularly with these statements, has exercised influence, above all I think of Mr. Minister of Justice, Mr. Selakovic, because he is also a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, so that each of his statements in the public cannot go unnoticed by other members of these bodies. The Constitution prohibits discrimination against Article 21 by providing citizens with the right to enter public office under equal conditions and that is regulated by Article 53 of the Constitution. The Law on Judges and the Law on Public Prosecutors prohibit discrimination during elections and when proposing elections on any basis. All of these members would be injured if all those other candidates, other than the members of the Judicial Academy, were excluded from the ad, and such a situation would be repeated even if members of the Academy were elected on existing ads, based on the Law on the Judicial Academy, while judges and prosecutors and other candidates on any future ad would be elected by other laws, i.e. Under the Law on Judges and the Law on Public Prosecutors. Even if a competition were to be called for judges and only prosecutors, it would again be discrimination against other candidates. Namely, judicial and prosecutorial assistants, and all other candidates who have met the law and the constitution of the prescribed conditions, have the right to participate in an existing competition and to be elected. They used their rights by submitting their documents to VSS and DVT, which is why the minister's statement is that, after the court's addition, a new competition for the election of judges, which will allow judges to apply. This is actually one clear indicator of how such a single competition will be conducted. At the session of all judges of the Supreme Cassation Court, the vast majority concluded that, when implementing an existing ad for the selection of judges, no advantage should be given to the members of the Judicial Academy, which established, fully justified and openly opposed the announced discrimination of candidates who are not members of the Academy. My second question, since I see that I am limited by time, is also addressed to Minister Selakovic and reads – why is the devastating effects of this institution and the law governing the justice of the Republic of Serbia being ignored today? What kind of message is being sent to judicial assistants, who have carried on their backs several years of work in conditions of increased volume of affairs, under a statement made by the minister, that the conditions for passing a judicial examination in courts are achieved by carrying a burek and yogurt for a year and a half of the judges, and then going to the hearing? According to the Law on Judges and the Law on Public Prosecutors, which insists in the election procedure... (President: Time. I'm done. It insists on establishing the expertise, competence and dignity of the candidates, and provides for the Law on Judges, Article 43, Law on Public Prosecutors, Article 76. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17407	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17408	Thank you, Vice President. My question was addressed to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Knezevic. It concerns the regulations adopted by his ministry last month on the use of organic livestock incentives, or in livestock based on organic production. Unfortunately, these rules exclude hundreds of small cattlemen who deal with organic production from the possibility of obtaining the funds we have prepared in both the budget and the adoption of the Law on Incentives of Agricultural Production. In 2011, these little cattlemen, who are involved in organic production, received a maximum of one million and 200 thousand dinars. It's not big money, but for them it is. In 2012, they ran out of funds. Now this Regulation in 2013 will also remain. What's the matter? It is disputed that the Regulation, and unfortunately also provides for the right to encourage organic production only those with high quality breeding throats. These are, let's say, people's tongues, throats with pydgre, where the origin of the two knees is known, or two generations. Most herdsmen who do organic production don't have that kind of throat. After all, there are a million cattle in Serbia, and only less than 150,000 such quality breeding throats. It is obvious that this law and regulation is made for someone, and when the market is slightly evaluated and those involved in organic production, there is a fact that there is a farm in Vojvodina that deals with so-called “the world. ” organic, but in fact industrial production, since it has thousands of hectares, etc. The farm will take almost a third, and certainly over a quarter of the total funds intended to promote organic livestock. So, nearly 55 million out of about 200 million, as far as the budget is intended for that purpose. Look at the miracles, the CEO and co-owner of the farm is Sasa Vitosevic, an adviser for the agriculture of Mr Dinkic. He was the law's writing coordinator. And now someone to convince me that the writing of the law wasn't designed and arranged for one farm to get a third of its assets, and tens of hundreds, it's not thousands because there aren't so many, little cattlemen, to be cut off. Simply, I ask the Minister of Agriculture – what will he do about it? Because large industrial production is a negativity of organic production. Essentially, organic production is pre-philosophy, and it deals with small family holdings, and it will be the most damaged, and we are only in turn when it comes to this branch of agriculture, although we are all talking about that Serbia has a great chance, a clean country, good water, but this way at the beginning of the development of that branch, in principle, one big player will take most of the money, and behold, he co-ordinated the writing of the law? It's a question for Minister Knezevic. As you can see from this example, there's always something behind. I ask, "What's up?" This is a question for Mr. Vukic, first Deputy Prime Minister and president of the SNS. Their chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Nikolic, the son of President Nikolic, is not emerging from Dimitrovgrad these days. Come on, he took the councilman from us. How can I say, it'll be better for the SNS with a boardman or a LDP boardman, it must be quality as soon as they've taken it, but what's weird is, there's strange things happening, there's a government where the SNS is torn down. The Serbian Progressive Party has two committee members and the president of the Executive Board is destroying that power. Interestingly, the president of the DS becomes an SNS trustee. Is it not normal? So there's something behind it, like there was something about this law. It is obvious that it is 20 acres of building land of the city of Dimitrovgrad on the very border where someone threw an eye. It's the last developmental chance of that poor community, but someone probably wants to bring in a combination of investors, so such crazy things happen, that the SNS is destroying its own authority and bringing someone from the DS to the head of its party, and otherwise that former president of the municipality is obviously going to get some combinations done. (President: Time. What's Wolfie gonna do about it? Is he the one behind the combination? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17409	Thank you. The following has been reported to be a National MP, Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17410	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, two days ago, the remains of King Peter II Karadjordjevic, Queen Alexandra Maria and Queen Andrej were stored in the family tomb on Oplenc, with the highest honor of the state. It is certainly one of the very important historical events for Serbia today. And in every country that holds to its reputation, which holds to its reputation, to its history, to its tradition, that in all information programs, perhaps not on commercial televisions, but on national televisions and public services, would certainly be one of the most significant and, so to speak, the first news of that day. However, it was obviously not so interesting for our media. Let's just imagine what a BBC would do in a situation where the mortal or earthly remains of a longtime or distant member of a royal family would be transferred to Britain. At that time, so many information programmes, documentary emissions, which would aim to preserve national identity and cultivate national history, or traditions, would certainly be organised. For our media, the victory of the coalition gathered around the DSS in Koseric was much more important. That's the information that was most important at that time. To be absolutely clear, if I were myself and we were by any chance a party that puts political interests first and which is strictly managed by this, we would be very pleased with such a way of reporting. But here a local news story cloudes the news of national interest. It's something that's absolutely unacceptable. Perhaps this event would also be the first news on public service, that by any chance the address of the Prime Minister and the address of the President of the Republic were not accompanied by huge whistles and shouts. Certainly there was no place for such disdain on Oplenc, but certainly also that Oplenac is not a place where inappropriate political speeches will be held, where there will be greatness of personality and of those who are thinking that one historical injustice and sin will be eliminated and that they have removed do exactly the other. My question, since I am running out of time, will of course be related to what I've been talking about, to the way this event has been sent to the media and will refer to what has been written a lot lately. The question was addressed to the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Alexander Vukic and Minister of Finance Mr Dinkic, and the question concerns – how will the state or government solve the problem of financing RTS? I'm not just putting this as a citizen, as an MP, but I'm also setting up as a member of the RTS Program Committee. I'm very worried about the information that's been coming in lately. The other day, we saw the finance minister saying that RTS will not be able to finance from budget funds, because the amount of 80m euros is a major blow to the budget. On the other hand, the first Deputy Prime Minister said on his social media profiles that he had finally cut things off and that the television subscription would be lifted. I am very interested – will Mr. Vukic insist on what he said, especially in the context of the information published yesterday in the daily "Today", where it is said that the EU is strongly opposed to the abolition of the television subscription? Will this warning by the EU become a mandatory guideline for the behaviour of our ministers, and will it remove any doubt that exists about solving this problem? I think the public deserves an answer to the question and that we as members of parliament know whether we will have a public service still. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17411	National MP Teodora Vlahovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17412	Dear Vice President, honourable fellow MPs, as you all know last week in voting day, I had a car accident outside the National Assembly building. I'm taking the opportunity to thank all the security guards, the medical team on duty and other colleagues who found themselves and helped me and allowed me to get out of this without great consequences. However, I am not talking to parliament because I would not burden my colleagues and at least the public. What I am addressing with the question of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Health is about yesterday's event. Yesterday, various offers from various companies began to come to my home address to help me with the damages. My question concerns - where did my data come from, the data of a person I don't know, who was driving, as well as certain witnesses. The data on my bodily damage is in this data. I'm curious -- how do these ministries protect personality data? Maybe I'm a public figure as a MP and I should tolerate that there are some things about my life and things that are not appropriate or that are protected by the Personal Data Act. I'm not asking myself for a question. I know how to protect myself. I place it on account of other citizens and other pedestrians who are killed in car accidents, who are surely in the same number and in the same way addressed to them and whose data from employees, whose jurisdiction these ministries are in, are in the hands of various private organisations dealing with the collection of immaterial damages. My question to the ministry is how are procedures protected by personal data available to these ministries, health institutions and on-the-field duty teams? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17413	National MP Marijan Risticevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17414	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, my questions, or requests to receive a notice, relate primarily to savage privatisation, so I'm going to list them. I'm talking about savage privatisations. It's a construction company called Kongrap. I'm talking about savage privatisations or better to say grabbing, which was carried out during the rule of the former regime, where the buyer sold out all the property of the construction company "Kongrap". The workers, of course, lost their jobs. When he pumped out all the capital, large areas of building land, buildings, he left the company as an empty shell, and hundreds of workers were out of work, bread, and the worst and no authority in front of their children, in front of their families and remain as social cases. Another privatisation that is also unheard is the privatisation of the "Zavat 500" from Surdulica, which has been privatised twice by the same buyer. First the contract was broken with him, and later his company was returned to him. There were 130 workers out of work on July 15, 2011, and in work books as the date of discharge or registered in 4.5.2010. The workers are being tried and therefore my question is as first – what will the competent state authorities do, what will the justice ministry, the force ministry, what will the police do, the prosecution to protect these workers? They lead the dispute over this layoff and this retroactive layoff, indicating the date of the year older than the date of discharge. What will the competent authorities do to ensure that slow-doers have been given some result of the dispute for three years, or that the court determines whether they are right or wrong? My third notice is almost unnecessary, and this puts SVM on the mechanization and penalties paid by farmers for the connection machines, I'm talking about dragged, those that are more dangerous in traffic don't have to register, but dragged skaters, saucers, sprinklers, pickers, etc. They have to register. Drivers who experience circumstances in agriculture work with such machines if police stop them from getting five negative points and three months of driving ban. My question is – what will the MUP do to correct this legal inaccuracies and that these connected machines, as well as those worn, are subject to registration because nowhere in the world and in Europe, this is not the case? The fourth and last question and notification concerns the construction of a lead battery recycling factory "Mon Bat" in India on a regional waterway. What will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the competent authorities do about the outrageous construction of the Waterfall Lead Recycling Factory and what mechanisms will prevent the poisoning of the people exposed to 50,000 people in India? Just to remind you that this factory was built in 2007 without a construction permit, that it had no water-based consent, had no ecological consent, had no water-efficient conditions. It's built without any building permits. Machines are in. She started working. The Ministry of Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection in 2008, and then led by Mr Dulic, issued a solution prohibiting the construction of a lead recycling factory, lead batteries "Mon Bat" in Indjia on the regional waterway of Indjija, and abolishing the facility. However, rather than being done by secretaries in the province's government, to which they have passed over authorised, in the meantime, such a factory has fully legalized, almost in an invisible way, the ossion, without any legal basis, the Lead Accumulator Recycling Factory, which was built above a water procedure where water is drinking 50,000 people. Regardless of the harmfulness of lead, regardless of the warning of environmental organisations that the genocide threatens India, the provincial government, the province’s secretariats have in some ways legalized it. My question for the Serbian government and the authorities is - what will it do to prevent possible poisoning in India? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17415	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Nebojsa Stefanović, Katarina Rakić, Sasa Dujovic, Gordana Comić, Radojko Obradović and Dusica Morčev. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, in connection with the search in particulars of the second item of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of the promoter, Master Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Business, has called for the sittings to attend: Aleksandar Ljubic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Business, Irina Stevanović Gavrović, Assistant Minister of Finance and Industry, Milica Bisic, Special Advisor of Finance and Business, Biljana Todorovic and Biljana Mirić Bogdanovic, advisers in the Group for corporate tax in the Ministry of Finance and Business. We continue to work and move on to the search in detail on item 2 of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE LAWS. We'll only wait two minutes for the minister to join us, please. In the meantime, I will read how much time left by the parliamentary group: SNS - the authorised representative for four minutes, and the total time is 57 minutes and 30 seconds; DS - the authorised representative for seven minutes and the parliamentary group for 19 minutes; the SPS - the authorised representative for 15 minutes and the parliamentary group for 26 minutes; the DSS - the time spent by the authorised representative and the parliamentary group for 10 minutes and 40 seconds; the URI - the authorised representative for the seven minutes and 30 seconds and the parliamentary group 17 minutes and 50 seconds; the LDP - the time spent by the authorised representative and the parliamentary group for the remaining six minutes; the PUPS - the authorised representative 15 minutes and the parliamentary group 14 minutes and 53 seconds; the SDPS - the authorised representative 15 minutes and 10 minutes; the NS - the authorised representative 15 minutes and the sending group of nine minutes and 55 minutes; the JS - the mandated representative for a large and the 15 minutes of the 6th and the 6th group of the 6th, respectively, and the second representative of the 15 minutes, and the 15 minutes of the former representative of the 6th and the 6th, respectively, and the second of the former representative of the FSM. I'm sorry, just a correction for the URS, the MP group did not have 17 minutes and 50 seconds left, but there were 8 minutes and 40 seconds left. We move on to the debate in detail on the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on corporate tax. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Borislav Stefanović, professor Dr Janko Vesenović, Gordana Čomić, Natasa Vuckevic, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic, Srdjan Milivojević, Milica Vojić Marković, Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Mić, Ivan Andrić, Bojan Đurić, Zoran Ostojić, Miljenko Dereta, Gorica Mojović, Donka Banović, Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojšić, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik, Dragan Andrić, Vladimir Ilić and Miodrag Nikolic. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The first amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Professor Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vukovic, Aleksandar Senic, Ljuban Panic, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic and Srdjan Milivojevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milica Vojic Markovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment with the correction. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Đuric, Zoran Ostojić and Miljenko Dereta together submitted to the 5th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Miljenko Derret.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17416	Thank you, Vice President. Our proposal that what's increased from 2.5 to 5% actually increases to 10 has a lot of reasons. The first is that in the current budget situation, which is increasingly difficult to meet the growing needs in the social support sector, an increasing number of unemployed, an increasing number of those who are at risk of poverty, needs help from all sides. One of the possible sources is the giving by those who directly produce something, i.e. have traffic and for a part of the traffic they would invest in certain activities can be subsequently tax-free. The reason why we suggested this is that it is actually a tax exemption that would be minimal and in a minimal way affecting the budget itself, while at the same time it can be a major contribution to solving some of the specific problems that we face both at the local and generally today. In this way, a potential taxpayer can direct his resources to a specific objective, not to put part of his tax into one general pot from which he will then be deployed according to the priorities set by someone else, and not by the one who provided those incomes and that tax. Another reason is that this is at the same time encouraging what everyone advocates in their words, which is socially responsible business as one principle on which to provide greater concern for those who work in production and those who create something in relation to the environment in which they live. One more reason I want to point out, which is that, unfortunately, in this article of the law, in listing all the areas in which it can be invested, not all of what is included in the Law on Associations, Foundations and Delegations is not respected. In fact, this type of investment is not allowed to protect human and minority rights, European integration, sustainable development, rural development, consumer protection, and I don't know if I can just say it – this law does not approve of investing in the fight against corruption, which I think is a kind of commentary on what is happening to us. What is the good side of this article is that a category of cinematographic production was introduced, because in this way the problem of cinematography in Serbia was derived from what was the explanation of the Ministry of Culture – namely, zero for the film was an ideological assessment, not an economic assessment. So, the fact that film production is now viewed as a film industry, and not just cultural activity is one shift that I find very important. In that sense, the change in membership, which actually gives the Ministry of Finance the right to decide what is cultural giving, rather than giving that right to the Ministry of Culture itself, seems to me that it can contribute to a different attitude towards the film industry that employs hundreds of people who are going to lose their jobs due to zero. So please reconsider this article. The 5% difference is seemingly large, but it's actually relatively small, and it could contribute in one direct way to a much better position, above all in the sphere of social policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17417	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment with the correction was submitted by Parliament member Gorica Mojovic. The Government and the Resolution Committee have adopted an amendment with the correction of the Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee, which considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Mojovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17418	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, thank you very much for the government's acceptance of my amendment. But I would say, since it is one of the only of the 63 amendments submitted by the DS parliamentary group, I am not sure that this would have been accepted that someone else from any other parliamentary group has submitted a similar amendment, but since culture is not very interested. I'm sorry that my amendment to the good part is contrary to what Mr. Miljenko Deretta was now saying. In order to, in some ways, convince the MPs to support this amendment, I will explain it. So, Article 5. The law on corporate income tax provides for the possibility of increasing from 3.5%, the percentage that legal persons can single out for culture, to 5%. I have to say so far in my experience, this relief has not given some great effect on culture. It's a very small number of companies, at least I know about one for all these years since this measure exists, and there's been 12 years, which has allocated funds in this way to culture, but well, nice, and that means something. However, what is not good, and here I am divergering with my colleague Miljenko Derret, it is not good that what he says about what is thought to be investment in culture is brought by a finance minister, not a culture minister. That's how it was, and how it is in the existing law. Why? Because, first of all, the finance minister can think whatever he wants about knowledge, expertise, the competences of the culture minister, but he is, however, the minister of culture. And, in addition, the Law on Government, on the Law on the Ministry, says nicely – that the culture minister is responsible for the affairs of culture. And I must say, by further proposal from the members of this law, the minister has disqualified himself from bringing regulations from the field of culture, because exactly what Dereta said, he said – a percentage of 5% is approved, investments in culture including cinematographic production. Gentlemen, in Article 8. The law on culture is all that has to be considered culture, so books, music, art creation, and cinematography. It wasn't necessary to stress it out, but well, come on, maybe it can. But also in the Law on Cinematography in Article 2 it writes well – that cinematography includes both production and distribution and public broadcasting, that it also belongs to the general development of film culture and cinematography, also belongs to the collection, restoration and popularization of film and other audiovisual works that make up the history of Serbian culture. If such a solution had remained, as proposed in the law, therefore, cinematographic production, the entire area of cinematic action, books and magazines in the field of film art, participation in festivals in the world and in the country of our films could not be considered a culture. I therefore call on all MPs to still vote in favour of this amendment, and I ask the finance minister to, in the future, prepare proposals for legislation from the areas for which he is responsible, and in any way concerning culture, make his associates at least look at the Law in the field of culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17419	Mrs Mojovic, I remind you, since both the government and the resolution committees have accepted this amendment, it has become an integral part of the law, so it is not voted specifically for. Milenko Deretta wanted a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17420	Thank you, Vice President. So, the reason why I welcomed this decision by the ministry is in fact, I will repeat that the Ministry of Culture has defined its relationship to cinematography ideologically. Politically. This is one, if I may say, at least a little healthier attitude towards cinematography as one industry that employs and lives hundreds of people, not to say thousands of people, that's the first thing. Secondly, I have to say that every decision by the Ministry of Culture is under question because of the lists produced by the Ministry and the ideological pressure on the creators to create so-called. Patriotic, not some, if I may even say, profitable or different culture, and least critical culture. In that sense, therefore, the Ministry of Finance, for now, at least I don't know that the rule of the lists is inappropriate. In his presentation, however, Minister Dinkic is in one very, I would say, a negative way to talk about the NGO sector. He put it in context of the opportunity of the national team and the spending of wasted money, first of all, which is an interesting relationship to my own past because his past is largely related to the NGO sector and that kind of critical relationship might also exist with the current activities of the minister himself. So, I welcome and again call on the Ministry to accept our 10% amendment because no matter how small it was a relatively small contribution and cinematography and all those services that NGOs can now provide under the new Social Services Act. So, to increase that amount as much as the budget can handle, and these 10% certainly can handle it. I also welcome the fact that I absolutely disagree with Mrs Mojovic on this issue because it means that between these two benches there is no full agreement that someone wants to present it falsely.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17421	Thank you. Next in line, MP Sasa Milenic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17422	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, despite the fact that this is not an amendment that we are going to vote on, since it has become an integral part of the text of the law, it seems to me that the controversy has also started, and starting with the assumption that representatives of the government and Mr Dinkic can also receive specific instructions or inspirations for future work in the discussions. Like my colleague Dereta, I think it's extremely important here to commend this willingness of the Ministry of Finance to take on cultural activity, so-called. as in the forms of creative industry. With the consent of Mrs Mojovic, that culture certainly needs a kind of public support and support through a demonstration of the social responsibility of capital, which is precisely the acceptance of this amendment, it is clear that culture requires emancipation from the social view and attitudes in understanding and treating its needs and problems. Just like in discussions on amendments to the previous law where we from the URS parliamentary group worked very hard to explain to the opponents of the pro-socialist political-philosophy orientation, that tax is not a social category. It's very important to understand that it's not even a culture. It is precisely for the development of culture in Serbia that it is essential to emancipation of culture as an action, culture as production and cultural creators themselves from the privileged quasi of the aristocratic position of a social person, and in fact every kind of civil emancipation is won exclusively on the market. Of course, especially in countries underdeveloped as ours, in countries affected by the economic crisis. Even cultural activity in the form of the cultural industry cannot be left to the harshness of the market, it demands support. Just in accepting this amendment, I see this kind of understanding by the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17423	Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17424	The esteemed chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I will speak very briefly, I will not vote on the amendment submitted by my colleague Gorica Mojovic, but certainly has the support of every man who has thought responsibly about this part of the law regarding Article 5, so he accepted this amendment, and in this sense the government's decision certainly comes to the approval of the SPO and the Democratic Party of Serbia. It seems to me that this was another attempt to involve the Ministry of Finance in the distribution of funds or decision-making when it comes to culture. In this regard, I call on the culture minister to ask questions to the finance minister more agile and determined in the next period ahead of next year's budget allocation. We cannot expect from those who in the previous period, who decided on Serbia's budget, the least funds were allocated to culture. Look at what the capital looks like, cultural centres in Serbia, other than Belgrade, almost no longer exist when it comes to cultural life, and therefore we must all, who think that culture is one of the basic foundations, that is, the foundation of Serbia's future cultural recovery and some other relations and ultimately, and when I talk about those who advocate that people return to those parts of Serbia from where they were or where they were born, then they should take more care to have their offers and cultural contents and cultural life. Somehow, everyone seems to be in the interest of getting easy and cheap political points, and much less is said here about some quick towards the citizens of Serbia and those who are directly interested in any action relating to culture. Therefore, the SP and the Democratic Party of Serbia welcomes the government's decision, but the government, not the finance minister, to accept my colleague Gorica Mojovic's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17425	Thank you. National MP Snezana Stojanovic Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17426	Thank you. Madam Vice President, one small intervention if possible. Our MP group only used two minutes yesterday, only one MP spoke, so it seems to me that there was some confusion and that the time used by the head of the parliamentary group was actually taken away from the time of our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17427	Before you start talking, you're absolutely right, I wrongly said that 8.40 is at the end, yet I'm going back to that half, the time that was, and that's after Mr. Milenic's speech, 15 minutes and 50 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17428	Thank you. It relaxes us significantly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17429	Please reapply to your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17430	I have to do it again. Thank you. Now I would speak for this amendment, which no doubt deserves to be accepted, but what I would like to commend above all, is the idea of the Ministry of Finance itself to increase the possibility of separation into culture. It is certain that culture in our country has problems, first of all, with funding and that is something more serious to work on, not only by separating bigger resources from the budget, but also by encouraging those who can invest it in culture, and that is something that works all over the world. I would also remind myself that responsibility is not only on the republican budget, but also on cities that are the founders of many institutions and institutions of culture in cities, so that simple responsibility for culture is something that we all share together. The fact is that so far, a little bit of this measure has been used, this is an attempt to strengthen it, to raise the level of resources that can be invested in culture, and I don't think it's just anything surprising. We are simply a society that has such a relationship with culture, but it is quite clear that if we do not invest in culture and education then we will not be able to develop economically or in any other way. I welcome this legislative provision, I think it's very important and it's very important that the Ministry of Finance takes care of culture this way. I wouldn't agree with, I mean, this is certainly an amendment that has brought one quality change, because it's clear that it needs to be a form of activity rather than a production, because the activity is broader, but I would remind you that it's not, I say, a mistake from the Ministry of Finance, because it's not expected that the Ministry of Finance knows all these details. I would remind you that every law goes to all ministries for opinion, and that simply this is a clear mistake from the Ministry of Culture that has not paid attention to the formulation that came from the Ministry of Finance. So, all the laws agree, they go to the competent ministries and it simply is their job, but certainly thanks to a colleague who noticed and corrected it in law instead of the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17431	Thank you. The next is National MP Miljenko Dereta, then the National MP Maja Gojkovic, after him.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17432	To be clear, this is a replica, Mr. Milenić, who mentioned me, and you did not respond in time, since I am discreet.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17433	All right, I'll give you a line.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17434	Thank you very much. I was mentioned. So it's very encouraging for me that even in the party from which Mr. Minister comes, there is actually a lot of understanding for this area, even greater than he shows himself, so I think it's encouraging news and that perhaps we can expect some fundamental changes, related to freedom of opinion and speech, which is the essence of culture. In that sense, I would like to remind the minister that the objections to Article 15 were accepted by the last adaptation ministry, i.e. agreeing with the Law on Associations, Foundations and Responsibilities, primarily in areas that this member should cover. So, when we talk about freedom of opinion and of speech in the field of culture, it certainly exists in the field of human rights and minority rights that are not covered by this article, and I should also call on the ministry to take another look at the list of actions considered by the common good in laws, associations, foundations and duties and to correct it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17435	Thank you. Minister Dinkic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17436	Since these provisions of the law give you the opportunity to embrace it, as you have spoken through the rules, we will certainly pay attention to that. I think that makes sense. So, we can settle some issues by regulation, and since so far it's been a tax relief up to 3.5% of the total income, if it's invested in culture, in sport, in social protection, we've just increased to 5% I know that you've proposed 10, it'd be better to make it possible, but we've estimated that the budgetary opportunities at that level are more than they've ever been and that 5% of the limit is correct. Of course, it would be better if there were better economic opportunities to be more, but at this point it's not possible. I agree with you that through the regulations, we should include these sectors that you've been talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17437	Thank you. Milenko Deretta, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17438	I want to express my gratitude and my belief that it will be done in a short time, that we will not remind you of it in three, six, or God forbid a year, because I think it is extremely important for the contribution that civil society should make in solving the current crisis. In that sense, I would ask another question, since you are in the mood to answer, when you were talking about involving public enterprises in taxpayers, will they also be able to contribute in some way to this and whether it will be in college, let's say, in terms of sport, where, as far as I know, public enterprises will no longer be able to, or should they, in a limited way, be able to help sports societies, depending on the sport commitment of the one headed by that organization?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17439	Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17440	This law applies to all companies, whether they are public or private if they have profits.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17441	Thank you. National MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17442	Thank you. I will address it very briefly, I am sorry that the co-workers of the Committee on Cultures of the SNS are not here, but I will try to explain our support for this amendment that we were more willing and braver than the other MPs here who only now, when the Government of the Republic of Serbia supported Mrs. Gorica Mojovic's amendment, encouraged her to speak publicly about it, that they would also support it. The SNS parliamentary group and in talks with a member who has seen both this way and prevented, whether a major mistake that was supported by the Ministry of Finance or by the Ministry of Finance's intention to manage and resor of culture. We went to talk to the Ministry of Culture about how it actually happened. They argue that they were not consulted on such a solution, but well, MPs are there to correct the executive authorities' mistakes, we were ready to support this amendment with the votes that the SNS owns here, and the amendment would have passed without the will of the Ministry of Finance and without a decision from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the decision already taken at the session. We have also informed some cultural MPs from the SPS, such as the director, Mr Dragojevic, of this intention and we have no doubt that they would vote for such an amendment. In addition to the fact that there was a major weather error, that there was no production cinematographically, but there was a film production, so let's ignore it because it wouldn't be possible to implement it if something in the law relating to film production was completely different, the worse intention was for people working at the Ministry of Finance to completely take over the Ministry of Culture, as a colleague from the LDP said - that they were trying not to ideologically distribute money, although I'm not sure about it. I could tell you sooner that it is difficult to share an ideological budget that does not exist, and the culture budget in Serbia does not exist, 0.6% is only 0.6%, so it is difficult to distribute ideologically and that there are intentions, but there is no intention, nor is there such a tendency in culture while it is run by a SNS minister. So, what's worse and what's more catastrophic and what's prevented and thanked, I think a similar or identical amendment exists from another opposition parliamentary group. I will courageously admit that they reacted faster, rather than more tragically to all of us, let me use the term co-worker – humiliating to the minister himself, even more humiliating to people who are engaged in culture that they are constantly getting a review of the financial work whether it's a culture, whether it's a film, whether it's artistic creation, whether it's a theater, if it's a whole lot of things, giving people that I don't even physically see as attending cultural events or events, and about their knowledge and education, that's what I'm holding back, maybe more reach for them, than we can recognize. So, I think what culture is best known to people who do culture, and finance, I guess no one from the Ministry of Culture is going to get involved much, and I think they should really get involved when there's a projection and when there's a legal budget for 2014, or we're going to have to do this again with the amendments, now we've shown there's a possibility of co-operation between MP clubs. This time it's a culture, which is a lot of times, and it honors us that people here in parliament and politicians don't deal with that segment of our society at all, so let's try to get back what we used to be and what used to be in our country, to have another factory that works, if I can quote, paraphrase Melina Mercury, which is a culture factory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17443	Thank you. The word is Mr. Derrett, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17444	Thank you. I wish Mrs Gojkovic were right and that there is no ideology in the decisions on distribution in the culture budget. Unfortunately, I would also like the agreement among the parties on culture to be on the lists employed by the ministry in very high positions, made and assessed the cultural results of certain people. The reason for zero in cinema was explained by the fact that our films don't give a nice picture of our country. So that was the reason for zero, not just a lack of financial resources. In that sense, I think it would be necessary for this solidarity and acceptance of certain general values such as the right to freedom of opinion, the right to differing opinions, the right to criticism, the right to speak, to be common, to be responded to by parties whose ministers make such decisions. That it comes from the opposition is expected. It would be a great surprise and a great benefit to the public and to the future of Serbia that we agree on what the key values of this society are, which are at this moment very threatened. So I welcome your support for our efforts to fund cultural activity more, but I would like to have that same support for the ideological aspect of what the Ministry of Culture is doing today.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17445	Thank you. Next reported is MP Srdjan Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17446	Thank you. For me, accepting this amendment is twice as important, as members of the national minority, is because conditions are really being created that the culture of members of national minorities is being encouraged in this way, but also as someone who cares about the Serbian culture in the world. I suppose those rules you're talking about will create conditions to say in more important countries, where there is a high concentration of Serbian living, say, there are only over two hundred thousand Serbs in Vienna living there, and we don't have a cultural centre at all, and in creating these cultural centres conditions are created that culture is really good through which Serbia will be able to get certain economic resources. In this sense, it is extremely important, and in this sense I say that we all need to think together that these funds are really going in this direction, that we really support these cultural centres outside Serbia, because they are extremely important in the EU accession process, in creating a different picture of Serbia in the EU, and in this sense this is extremely good and acceptable for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17447	Thank you. The next is MP Zoran Kasalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17448	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have shown our support for these envisaged changes in principle, because we believe that this way the Government really recognizes the works of general social interest. By estimating the current situation in conditions where there is not enough direct money to speed up these activities, we think that, conditionally speaking, the denial of future incomes, or taxes, is offered one variant that part of the funds invested in protection, health, education, science, humanitarian, religious, sports and social purposes and, of course, when it comes to this amendment, culture, which we certainly think is a good provision. In this way all those who are able to be socially responsible for these actions are called upon and it seems to me that in this way a double benefit is achieved and an invitation to all those who have money to invest in these activities, because in this way certain companies will be shown to be truly socially responsible. On the other hand, it will also be possible for its own personal benefit to present these expenditures to the tax balance, at a significantly higher amount of 5%, therefore than the total income. What might sound paradoxical and what we all have discussed from the SPS Parliament Club are looking for and we are really looking for one effective fiscal control so that all forms of the grey economy will be contained in the best possible way. We think that even one more effective tax control in this sense can produce significantly more real tax balances, and thus significantly greater separations for these purposes by taxpayers. In this way, indeed, I think that possibly a mild suspicion of the Fiscal Council in its report, that a large number of tax reliefs provided for in the Law on Profit Tax could cause certain non-transparency of the law and potential loss of funds in the budget, although no clear cash amount has been shown. I don't think it's going to be a loss in that scope, and it's already in some future period that we can get significant results when it comes to detachment for these very important social activities. So we really express, above all, the government's determination to recognize these actions and give them the opportunity to invest more in them, and certainly the amendment of their colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17449	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17450	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will all be watching each other in the Assembly, and this is what Parliament is serving for, and also for this amendment, where a House of People has observed that there has been one oversight in the preparation of the law and something that could, from the point of view of the responsible service, have been removed even in the course of the legal and technical order. But this much getting along, you always have to worry about what's different from the kind of fake disagreement we've been seeing in the last few days. You know exactly who's job is. In the preparation of the law, the ministry proposed by the law sends it to everyone concerned, who sees only those provisions concerning them and should respond to that. Let's worry, I'm not calling anyone individually, that someone doesn't know the basic provisions of the law relating to the area he's in charge of. That's certainly not the minister. First. Secondly, there were fewer amendments to the Republic of Serbia's budget in this session than at this time, to these few changes, which we all know, both the government and the minister and the fiscal council, and the IMF, they all said -- these are necessary, extorted measures in an attempt to face where we are. There's no reason for pathetics, or ideologies, and especially for banging in the chest for something the government, of course, accepted, for something the finance minister of course accepted. Once again congratulations to the first person to see it and the pleasure is that it's you. But let us understand each other. Just when Mr Dinkic was the finance minister, the culture ministry couldn't spend money because it wasn't well organised. It was 2004, 2005 and 2006. It was going back to the budget. Just in all previous years, whenever it turns out that adequate money is being deployed in the culture from the budget that the Ministry of Culture requested, it is not deployed by the finance minister, there was no problem. The problem was that there was not this much discussion and consensus when the budget was adopted, and there is now, when it comes to the extent that the termological something defines, but in reality, it will have the effect as it was in previous years – negligible. You don't solve this question. When I took this time, just to remind you that in a year and a half, when I agreed to do my duty as Minister of Culture, I met with the Minister of Culture of France, both Germany, since this is specific, these are State Secretary for Foreign and Internal, Previous and Current Minister of Russia. All five had the same attitude. Now, when the biggest crisis is, we need to isolate more for culture, because the crisis is going to go away, and when it does, what if we lose our basic identity? But it's not even cultural centres, it's not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Culture, it's not through these laws or the city, just so you know it's divided, I don't mean anything bad, it's well-meaning, but it's shared responsibility. As you know, the largest cities were the first to reduce, and not yesterday, but a few years ago, drastically isolated for culture. Don't let me tell you what these cities are and how much they've reduced. It is crucial for us all to rather than spend this much time praising our willingness to vote for something we should not vote for, instead of focusing on really helping to isolate ourselves more and more seriously for culture in the coming period. Thank you all for your well-meaning.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17451	Thank you. National MP Gorica Mojovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17452	I wish this much agreement between the parliamentary groups had been, of course, motivated by Mr Predrag Markovic's statement, when considering my amendment to the 2013 Budget Law. Besides my colleague Maja Gojkovic, I don't know if Mr. Markovic voted, because that's what we're talking about today. The amendment was supposed to at least partially, with about 500 million, improve the position for the programme and projects in the culture budget. Then we could talk about more serious funds for culture and then no one would have an alibi to say that Film has zero, because it is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Culture. I think that this discussion today has also given us some direction to try, regardless of what parliamentary groups amendments come from, to be more careful and careful about culture and to support this degree of agreement on the need to and more single out for this area, in every future opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17453	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17454	I'd like to make one brief comment, so we can understand each other. They are also in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Culture cultural centres. They cannot work without the DKP, but are also in the jurisdiction of cultural centres that participate in the appointment of management staff and everything. As you have in other ministries when it comes to economics, etc., so it's not just the Foreign Ministry. That's how there's the cooperation of different parts of the government here, and that, if we do take it a little bit, I'm sure that's how it is. It's not in exclusive jurisdiction, but without a joint decision, it can't be done, especially in the definition of content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17455	Thank you. National MP Predrag Markovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17456	Of course, this isn't slow, because I don't think you'd want to argue with me. Yeah, I've only shared a notice, and it's also about, firstly, as in all areas, we have to do everything we can to keep what we have, and only then to talk about something that's only a partial jurisdiction anyway, and that would require new government costs. We're just talking about how to preserve what we have, because it's compromised. Do you know how much he's reduced the city of Belgrade, Novi Sad? I'm talking about cities that are powerful because they're big, Kragujevac, Nis. I don't want to pick it up. First, even a few years ago when they started, how much he reduced the separation for those institutions he founded, among them, primarily culture. We can't talk now – that was my remark. Let's concentrate on keeping what we have, because that's a prerequisite for moving on. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17457	Thank you. People's MP Srdjan Shain, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17458	I understand what you're saying, but I'm asking you to understand me, too. Two hundred thousand Serbs in one country were raised from their culture in their own state. I'm talking about it, as we live in a country where half of the Serb population lives outside the borders of their country. I, in that sense, spoke in this second part. I agree with you that we have serious problems here, but if you have a good theatre performance here, and that good theatre performance goes through, say, 20 countries where there is a Serbian diaspora, it can get back funds through it and finance itself. I was just talking about, we need to look at the export product. We need to understand that in a country where we have 200,000 Serbs, that if we adequately position Serbian culture in that country, we can get the funds back multiple times. We can simply place certain products there that are cultural heritage, we can do it in different ways. I was just trying to change that angle of view that was so far, and that angle of looking is that the culture outside is just costing something. We can also create conditions to come up with certain resources to support institutions located in Serbia through the various cultural facilities that we place outside. Austria has done fantastic things through New Year's concerts, through "open ball", through similar things that are part of history, part of the country's cultural heritage, and has achieved an export product. I just wanted to try to give one opportunity and think about how we could do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17459	Mr. Markovic, please give up the replica because we've gotten very far from the topic. You're staying at the replica? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17460	Thank you for the correctness. Once again, I understand well-meaning. It's mine, when all this time has been spent this way, to remind only of whose authority it is. You know that I am certainly the wrong address, because I know exactly how much money is coming back, as I know exactly that culture and tourism are the only areas of previous years that have brought a continuous increase in revenue. Unfortunately, you are attending a huge number of those who are not really interested in the well-being of the state, if they have no profit, precisely against investment and support for tourism and culture. Although it is clear with the naked eye that only there was an increase in both traffic and income. It is therefore very important to define exactly what is on the agenda. Mine was just to let you know. Thank you all, and I apologize for taking the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17461	Anyone else want a word about the amendment? (No) On Article 5 of the amendment, Parliamentarian Ivan Jovanovic has submitted with a correction. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the corrections have not been made. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in the basic text in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, and the corrections have not been made. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17462	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, the Honored Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that I have tabled also refers to Article 15, in paragraph 1. A sentence is added that public enterprises and business companies owned by the state, mostly, this expenditure cannot be higher for health, education, science, humanitarian, religious, for the protection of the human environment, sports purposes than 3.5% of total income. Why am I thinking this? Because we passed the Law on Public Enterprises not applicable at the end of last year. He was a marketing trick, a move that served to cloud the eyes of the public, as it happens from month to month and this year. We have the Law on Public Enterprises which envisioned the adoption of a programme and a business plan for public enterprises in December, then three months of reporting on its implementation. Do you know, Mr. Minister, that no public enterprise has published its report on the three-month implementation of the business programme on the Internet? This respects the Law on Public Enterprises. Did you know that the Council's Finance Board of Councilors appointed a member of the Board of Directors? Is that a department? This is contrary to the provisions of the Law on Public Enterprises. Now you're saying that we should get eyes and cultural sportsmen, environmentalists, by allowing them to get a little more funding from companies at the end of the year. Of course, from private because it's expected and well and it needs to be encouraged. But, public enterprises, they're still losers today, mostly. This law has not contributed to repairing their position. You elected directors before the law came into force, in the government. You made a mockery of that law, Mr. Minister. You're not the only one to blame. There is a majority in the government that makes up the party that is the headquarters of the ruling coalition, the SNS, and it's not your fault. Today you expect to change this law to cloud the eyes of all these users and say that instead of the National Assembly where a budget rebalancing should be decided on how much it will go for culture and health and environmental protection, and I will remind you that you have abolished many of these givings. For culture, you cut it in half in the previous budget. You expect then that the directors and employees of public enterprises, public company officials, will decide that these funds will be distributed, without programmes and implementation of the programme. Who's going to decide that? Ballerina or the owner of the roast? Who will decide how these funds will be distributed? I'm saying it's not just your fault, it's the headquarters of this regime, as you like to tell the SNS. Serbian citizens every day see how this country's economy is run, how this country's economy is going down, and that's a fact you can't disprove.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17463	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17464	The law is very clear. Profit tax is paid and this release can only apply to those companies that have profits. Companies that are in losses can't give tax reliefs for these purposes. That's quite clear. What's the fact that when you mention these ballerinas and the owners of the roasters, etc., you have to look at yourself in the mirror. I don't mean you personally. If the state lottery of Serbia led by your party was lost last year, see in the world if any national lottery has lost? You should criticize those who have losses, but you must be self-critical. It's almost impossible to lose in the lottery. You're asking the question of who's running public enterprises now, and you haven't asked the question for years who led Serbia's state lottery and how it's even possible that the Serbian State lottery had a loss. You don't have the right to talk about it unless you start talking about it. You always have the right to criticise if you say so first – yes, it is a disaster that something that is profitable by nature of business... Let me remind you, the loss is until 2003, then by reform and by the laws that were passed during the then government, it's won all the time, and since last year it's been a loss. Unbelievable. Now we're faced that we can't complete the distribution of the winnings. It takes 50% in the budget to pay all those who had profits, public enterprises. However, the lottery is not on that list. Why isn't he on that list? She had a loss last year. There's Telecom, there's Airport, there's SDPR, there's profit, PTT Serbia has profit, but there's no lottery. How is it possible that the lottery is worse than the Post Office? That's not possible. I just want you to be objective, and when you're talking about projections of the future, if now someone who's been doing some work is going to run a public company right, ask yourself who led the Serbia State Lottery and how he made that loss.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17465	Thank you. The word has Ivan Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17466	Mr. Minister, you're not here to discuss individual cases, you're here to solve citizens' problems. Do not shift the focus of the topic to something from the past because as the current President of the Republic likes to say, you are a man of the past. Don't talk about the past. Let's talk about the present. Today you are responsible for the situation in the Serbian economy and you should be responsible for today. Do not generally refer to Dragan Gilas, the EU crisis, the smoking mafia, those who use cut tobacco, etc. It's all your fault. So I really don't think it makes any sense anymore, so you're saying and the citizens can't listen to it anymore. You're saying the proceeds are determined by the means. You know when that is? In December. What were we discussing earlier then? In December they can know whether they have a profit or not. Here the amendment says well – expenditure, is limited to expenditure. In both the program and the business plan, it can be planned somewhere, if that plan exists. If there is no such thing as in the case of our companies, or even less, in the enforcement report, then the citizens cannot know anything about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17467	Thank you. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17468	I am responsible, among other things, for the business and results of the Serbian State lottery this year, and I do not deny it and I will be responsible if, and it will not happen, it has lost. I'm just stating as an extreme example, that art is in a negative sense to make a loss in the lottery. I didn't mention anything about Dragan Gilas to this occasion. Dragan Gilas had nothing to do with the installation of personnel in Serbia's state lottery. I just said it's your client's fit.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17469	Thank you. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17470	You mentioned him all day yesterday. It turned out that the literal reason for this set of laws was Dragan Gilas, not a hole in the 86 billion budget. That's what Serbian citizens should know. The exchange of thesis today is on the agenda. When will you plead on the Postanian Savings Bank, the Euroaxis Bank, when will you declare a thousand euros of free shares to each Serbian citizen, when will you report to the airport, about your staff? When's that gonna be a turn? That's not what you're talking about. You only want to hear what you're pleased to hear. Of course, Serbian citizens will not live better than that. We want economic issues to be discussed in the right way. You should have come to the Assembly with this set of economic laws, tax laws, and budget rebalances. You didn't propose budget rebalance because you don't have a policy, you don't respect a fiscal strategy, there's no deal, the socio-economic council doesn't work. You don't talk to unions, and if you talk, those conversations don't come true. I think it's quite clear to the citizens of Serbia. It is clear that at least what you can do, it is to resign as Minister of Economy and Finance. Chairman, warn the gentleman who is a guest in the National Assembly that he cannot laugh and mock the MPs, because he is invited here to attend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17471	Thank you. Mr. Jovanovic, let me just tell you, since Minister Dinkic has his back turned, I can't see him laughing at you. I don't see any helper and he's turned his back. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17472	There's no need to get excited. I was here on Friday, I was here yesterday, I'm gonna be here all day, I'm gonna be at the special session on Thursday. Anything you want, ask me, I'll answer it, there's no problem. Everyone should always be responsible for what they do. I don't have any problem with all the questions you've been asking, because it's a fiction that, unfortunately, while we were in a coalition of people from your party, the public was mistaken. I'm comfortable with you asking me these things. When the assembly debate comes on economic issues, I think that's the topic. Feel free to ask me, I can't wait to answer all these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17473	National MP Slavica Saveljic, a replica on behalf of the URS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17474	On the third day, we listen to a party who has been informed that they do not know how to manage their own money, how everyone here in the Assembly is giving lectures on how to do this in public finances. For days, their account has been blocked for months and instead of showing their knowledge in their own party, they have actually shown that the only way to unblock their party account is by collecting a hack inside the party premises. I really ask you to use the Rules of Procedure in the future and to warn the MPs when they bring out very offensive connotations at the expense of the Ministers or anyone in this Assembly. It's really not appropriate for a ton, nor is what we've been listening to now a part of the agenda. To give lectures to the finance minister, who was the only one in this region named finance minister number one in the world, to give lectures to a man who was the only one in recent political history left a surplus in the budget. To talk about running public finances to a man who raised the country's foreign reserve with 300 million to over three billion indeed at the very least is incorrect. I think we'd have to go back to a law that's on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17475	National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17476	Madam Chairman, I am advertising the violation of Rule 107, which says the speaker at the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. A man should first respect his own dignity so that he may have it and that he may respect the dignity of a home in which his fellow believers are located. I think this inappropriate discussion, where the DS reportedly collects a hack, speaks much more about those who express such definitions than the DS, because how will DS finance be financed? Always in accordance with the law, no locks. Harac is what is imposed on Serbian citizens through taxes and fines, which did not exist from the Turkish Empire until today. Today, the DS is in opposition, and those who do not realize that they are in power, that they have the responsibility to manage this country, can try to reach their party president with fire-speaks so that the next time they will be on the list for MPs. But if you continue like this, this gallery will expand up and there will be room for NGOs at the gallery, certainly not in the gym.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17477	Mr. Milivojevic, I just have to ask you to do this in the future when you report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, don't use that time to replicate. As for Article 107, I am really asking all the MPs to take care of the dignity of the National Assembly when they address it. MP Dejan Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17478	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, members 27, 106 and 107. Minister of Economy number one, and the economy in mud to its knees. Do you really think someone believes you're not responsible for anything?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17479	Mr. Nikolic, I really remind you of the rules of the Rules of Procedure. You, in the light of the provisions of Rule 103, have the right to report on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, to speak only of the violation of the Rules of Procedure, not of replicating the Minister at the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17480	I point out that you must act as chairman and what not only the MPs say, but also what the minister says. Don't interrupt just the MPs. Stop the minister when he makes such insults at the expense of a member of parliament. Do you think someone in Serbia believes that both the minister and his party have no responsibility after 13 years of government? National Bank Governor and Finance Minister and Economy Minister in one government and economy minister in another government and finance and economy minister in the third government, a total of the fifth term. Once you've been responsible for what you've been doing for the past 13 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17481	Mr. Nikolic, this has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You are speaking in accordance with Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17482	Yes, I referred to Article 27, Art. 106th and 107th.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17483	I totally understand. Let me give you an explanation now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17484	Can I give you an explanation?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17485	Just don't replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17486	When I say someone hurt dignity, I have to point out how they hurt dignity. I say, both MPs and ministers, take responsibility for something you've been doing for the past 13 years. Say, yes, we don't know how to fill a hole in the budget, we'll take 26 billion dinars from Vranja to Sudotica, from Kladovica to Ivanjica 26 billion.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17487	Thank you. I remind you the minister can't hurt the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure can only harm the Chairman. In the previous address of the minister, I did not hear a word of insult in that I should have warned him. You can see from the stenographic notes. National MP Srdjan Mikovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17488	I refer to Article 27, but also to Article 32. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17489	Mr. Mikovic, in accordance with Article 103. You cannot appeal to Rule 27 again because the previous speaker called on that member.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17490	To Article 32. Why? Because the vice-president is helping the president, but the vice-president is obliged as well as the president to make sure that the Rules of Procedure is properly applied and applied equally, means, in the same way to all participants in the debate, to all MPs. That is why I point out that your actions with regard to my colleague Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, who absolutely justified the violation of the Rules of Procedure he pointed out, you have only found it appropriate for him to draw attention that he allegedly enters the line, not to stick to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Just before that, whoever represents the parliamentary group of those parties whose member, Madam Chairman, is the same party whose member, or now the president, the current minister who explains the laws here, did not find it in any way appropriate that, when she went absolutely out of the topic and out of the agenda, draw attention to getting into replicas, further replicas, not to stick to whether or not she was or not and to answer only what was the topic, or, possibly, what was the basis for the replica itself. If we have an unequal relationship with the participants in the debate, then we really question whether we should ask for someone else to chair this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17491	Mr. Mikovic, I don't think I've hurt an officer. 27 and 32. The Rules of Procedure, since, and you can see for yourself from the stenographic notes, Mr Milivojevic began with a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but ended his presentation with a replica. So that's why I warned him, and only at the end of his exposure. Would you like us to come forward in the Rules of Procedure's injury vote? No, I don't. ( b) Do any of the applicants want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. We're back on the agenda. Mr. Jovanovic, would you like a replica of Mrs. Sauljic's presentation? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17492	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I don't know what I've caused this reaction, but I think the lady has gotten too involved in the defense of Mr. Dinkic's character and actions, and that's why. I was just talking about the amendment. The amendment refers to public enterprises, which say expenditure in public enterprises and companies cannot be greater than 3.5%, which is allocated for these purposes. Clearly, if he's bigger and the expenditures are big, he won't win. That's quite clear. Mr. Dinkic then moved on to the field of inventing some kind of DS affair, which he does all the time. You're the one who kept doing it. Thank you, we're fine and we're off-limits. We've solved the funding issue. You should ask yourself what you've funded in the campaign since you haven't been in trouble, and far less have MPs and votes in the elections and, of course, fewer regular incomes. That's the question. The question is also how have all those activities that were used within the Ministry of Economy been used? Who was getting public works? Who assigned public workers? Who did all this? Did they glue your posters? These are the questions to be answered by this society. The answer should be answered, and how is your party financed, which changes its name every year, would not deceive Serbian citizens? Those are real questions for us. You deal with the economy that way, and that's why this country's going down. That's why this number of amendments was submitted. You can't stop us from talking. We'll talk about it as much as you like it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17493	The word is Slavica Saveljić, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17494	We're not defending the character, but we're defending the work of our president. I think it's completely natural and normal. We sincerely believe what Minister Dinkic is doing and therefore we represent his ideas. I'm sure the DS would only defend its leader if you knew who they had appointed, the honorable, the eternal, or the one they chose. However, not everyone voted him, so at this point they have a crisis of identity.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17495	The word has Dr. Janko Veselinović, a replica on behalf of DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17496	In any case, good colleagues next to me have found that this debate by colleagues from the URS is below each level has no arguments on how to protect the prime minister from the laws he has put before MPs, which go towards pushing their hand in the pocket of taxpayers, to continue to humiliate and such a low standard of citizens, which is 20% lower than the time they took power, and Minister Dinkic was in many governments before. I can't explain where only 100 million investments are coming from this year. No one lives will come to Serbia to invest, as they see it as incompetent, and with it to the end of the inconsistent government, who doesn't know what they want. He's making rebalances, he's making a budget, he's passing one tax law, he's passing another tax law, they don't know what he wants either. It's clear that the state is sinking, that about what you said was bankruptcy a year ago, that you brought the state before bankruptcy. It is clear that you owe the state only eight months for four billion dinars. It is clear that everything that has been achieved on export growth refers to the "Fiat". It is clear that each household has been in charge of 1,600 euros since you came to power. It's clear that inflation is growing. It's clear that prices are rising. It is clear that all that you have resented the previous government has proved to be incorrect, that the previous government in relation to this government was a government example.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17497	Time. The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17498	I don't know what we're discussing today. We are currently discussing tax reliefs for culture, for environmental protection, for humanitarian separation, for religious purposes, for scientific purposes, including, when it comes to culture, and cinematography. The government has proposed, on a proposal from the finance and business ministry, that these tax incentives be increased from the current 3.5% of company income to 5%. We give greater tax reliefs to those who are willing to set aside for humanitarian action, for culture, for sport, for environmental protection, for all of what I said earlier. If someone sees it as a hand-tip in someone's pocket, it's the company's goodwill and we don't put our hands in anyone's pocket. I don't know what you mean. Companies themselves make tax breaks, to speed up sport, culture, environmental protection and everything we've talked about. If we're talking about these things, I don't really understand. I've been really trying, and I've been listening to you very carefully in these two minutes what you've been saying, but I don't know what this has to do with tax breaks in profit tax laws. If you want to spread the subject, tell me, and let's talk about a wide topic. If you want to talk about this topic, then say what you object to increasing tax relief for these areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17499	We're going on about the amendment. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17500	Thank you. Honored Vice-President, Honored Minister, Honored fellow Members, Proposal for my amendment to Article 12. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Amendments of Article 48 refers and my intention was to encourage investment of foreign investments, especially when it comes to domestic production. In fact, it is that in the last three years in the largest manufacturing centre of the economy that was built long ago in 1985 to 1988, more than 13 private, factories that are citizens as private, are in an extremely difficult situation, or are under bankruptcy, or are on their way to bankruptcy. Why is that? Taxes, imposes, especially the aggregate rate of taxes and contributions is the largest in the environment. It's 68.5%. In previous and previous elections, the majority pledged to lower the rate below 30%, as it was in other countries, and this was not done. To return specifically to the amendment. With the amendment itself, we wanted to make a contribution and help to the government in the part of attracting foreign investment, and in particular to give potential to manufacturing companies, manufacturing companies, which increases gross product, because without increasing gross products, there is no increase in national income. The situation in the manufacturing economy is extremely difficult. In this way, if we freed all investments, all investments the investor wants to invest in an increase in production, would increase the number of employees, would increase the country's gross product and thus make a major contribution to the employment of a large number of unemployed. That was the aim of the proposal of this Article 12. Laws on amendments and additions to the law. So we're proposing to the minister and I'm asking him to adopt an amendment like this. Jagodina is a city that has built a large centre where it offers years, mayor, free hectares and hectares. Unfortunately, two or three investors have arrived in three and a half, four years. It's just proof that it's an extremely bad tax policy, especially in the previous period. I don't think these constraints, these changes aren't going to produce much of a score, Mr. Minister. You are a very responsible minister, i.e. Minister for Very Important Resors. It's for the economy, which is the real estate of the economy, finance and investment. I'm sorry, but I didn't get a chance to hear yours or some national project, a national program. We used to have a few of you national programs, like the National Savings Bank, like the First Commercial Bank, which you know very well about what happened to her. The first economic bank was supposed to be Serbia's Development Bank to boost small business and private entrepreneurship. With regrets, she robbed in 2002 when 50 million were taken away. I personally filed a criminal report because I am also the creator, founder of the Economic Bank, because I am damaged by two and a half to three million. Many were seen there, responsible adviser to the previous government...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17501	Mr. Nikolic, I beg you to return to the amendment, on the subject. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17502	I'm going back to the amendment. We have proposed concrete projects and programmes to employ Serbia and have delivered them to you. We guarantee our programs and projects to employ more than 300,000 workers in no longer... (Chairman: Mr. Nikolic, please. Here's the amendment. Don't talk about the amendment. Explain to me the Development Bank... Would you like to go on about the amendment? Sign up and get back to the amendment. )......................................................................................................... I don't think the proposal for our amendment would bring any big funds to the government, but it would contribute to a number of domestic investors, who unfortunately don't have the same relief as foreign investors... "Gorenje" invested in Zajecar, invested in Valjevo, that's very good, but as the president of the Management Board said on that show, "Gorenje" to ask you for a road and you've made it, you're looking for a way to Valjev and you've made it. That's very good, and the roads need it. But, please, I have invested a total of 14 amendments on the third item of the agenda, and I will report back to you when it comes to order, so that you accept the amendment in the interest of increasing production and gross product in Serbia and a higher number of employment and will not make a major contribution to strengthening the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17503	The 5th amendment with the correction in the same text was brought together by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banović and jointly by Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik and Dragan Andrić. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that amendments with a correction are in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 12 by MP Miodrag Nikolic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the corrections have not been declared. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs together Borislav Stefanović, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Gordana Komić, Natasa Vučković, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojević. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17504	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, just one note regarding this amendment. It is also a tax credit that says that small legal persons are recognised as a tax credit of 40% of the investment made, with the tax credit being no higher than 70% of the tax rate in the year in which the investment was made. I've seen your argument, I realize that this is the tax policy position that's being conducted in this country, but I still urge you to reconsider and question whether it's really impossible for this tax credit to increase 50% for these small legal entities, especially what I'm going to point to one situation in practice. You know that in Serbia there are also loans from the Development Fund and there is one illogicality, don't take this as my abuse of the subject, but I also want to point out to you a little bit of illogicalness that is happening right now when it comes to the funds of the Development Fund. If I as a Kruševljanin want to open up a company in Kursumlia, I don't get all those tax breaks from the Development Fund loan because the company isn't registered in Krusevec, although I want to hire workers in Kursumlia and run production there, so I ask you to use your influence in the Government of the RS at the Management Board of the Development Fund to remove and try to find a model and maybe accept this amendment because I don't see it so bad. There may be a possibility that he can be accepted because he is in a certain way derelaxing the economic situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17505	The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the next item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have called on the members of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration to attend, in addition to the representatives of the promoter, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Business, to attend the sittings of Mr Aleksandar Ljubic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Industry, Irina Stevanović Gavrović, Assistant Minister of Finance and Business and Milica Bisic, Special Advisor of Finance Minister and Marijan Blesic, Head of the Group for Tax Procedure and Tax Administration at the Ministry of Finance and Industry. Amendments submitted by the MPs to Dr. Nenad Popović, Bojana Bozanić, Gorica Gajic, Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic, Ljubica Milosevic, Dusan Petrovic, Miodrag Djidić, Sanja Čeković, Milovan Marković, Boško Ristić, Nebojša Zelenović, Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Mićić, Ivan Andric, Bojan Đurić, Zoran Ostojić, Boris Stefanović, Prof. Janko Vesenović, Gordana Čomić, Natasa Vuković, Gorica Mojović, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Jovanovicović, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Srdan Milivojević, Olgica Batić and Miodrag Nikolic, as well as the amendment of the Committee for Finance, the Republic budget for the control of public funds. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Miodrag Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4th of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dusan Petrovic, Miodrag Djidic, Sanja Cekovic, Milovan Markovic, Bosko Ristic and Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic jointly submitted to the 6th amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17506	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, in Article 23 of the original Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, it is regulated when the tax liability ceases - by tax collection, obsolescence, write-off and otherwise established by law. The position of the 2nd law in the original form provided that legal persons, over whom the bankruptcy procedure was completed by a judicial solution by bankruptcy, tax obligations are to be written off, except for contributions to compulsory social security. Now, by amending this Article 23, in Article 6, you say that such taxpayers and those contributions to compulsory social security will be written off, with the reason that the write-offs, including social security contributions, will be off-balanced in the tax records. Of course, with the reason that even now in such companies, which ended in bankruptcy, there was no possibility of paying any tax debt, thus contributing to compulsory social security. The Democratic Party of Serbia only amended the amendment to delete the member, because we want to continue to let those legal persons continue to have an obligation based on contributions to mandatory social security. Because, back in the years, many companies deliberately went bankrupt, deliberately, some colleagues said, sucked capital out of these companies, and these companies went bankrupt, bankruptcy ended, and the state had absolutely no one left to collect from. However, what about workers who have worked in these companies for years and have not been paid back two, three, five or ten years of social security contributions? What do we do with them now? Who has the obligation to pay these social security contributions to these workers? Just because the IRS will record them off-balance, it's obvious that she's done the job. However, for the state, where many companies are deliberately going bankrupt, where we easily catch the write-off institute, how many months ago have we written off interest on the debt tax, we now write off all debts based on all possible grounds, where is this solution for workers, and where is this better tax control? We believe that now a united tax application for all taxes and contributions will allow better control and better budget payment. But what about these workers who worked? And you know that their problem is great, because who's going to pay contributions to their name back years because of the bankruptcy that went on purpose and ended in bankruptcy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17507	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ljubica Milosevic. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17508	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 7. In Article 29 after Article 3, a new position 4 shall be added – the notifications referred to in Articles 1 to 3 of this Article shall be delivered by electronic means or by means of direct access to the database. The present position 4 shall become item 5 and shall be added to paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 which shall read as follows: the authority, organisation or other person responsible for enrolment in the prescribed register of persons carrying out a specific activity shall not delete a person from the prescribed register without proof of termination of the tax obligations issued by the competent tax authority, not above five days at the time of submission of the request for removal from the prescribed register. With regard to the protection of personal data, the tax administration is obliged to act in the same way as the authority which supplied that data to it. As regards the protection of personality rights, the tax administration is required to comply with the provisions of the law governing the protection of personal data. For this reason, the proposed amendment in the provisions of Article 7(3) would remove provisions which would require the removal of a legal person from the relevant register to the previously issued assurance of the tax administration of the taxed tax liabilities. In fact, the practice so far has shown that the obligations of the provisions, whenever introduced into the legal system, have not yielded the expected results. Moreover, every legal person after eradicating from the register has a legal follower, who, depending on the legal form of the right person, is responsible for his obligations, and therefore also for outstanding public income obligations. Thus, the tax administration is empowered to demand or forcefully charge the debted public income from those persons. On the other hand, the conditions for deleting from the register by issuing a certificate could lead to the fact that founders and members of companies do not initiate liquidation procedures, even though there is a real reason for this, and that again on paper the state's claims on the basis of public revenues, which would not be realistic. As regards the proposed provision, the tax administration shall act in the same way as the one who supplied them when receiving the notice from the competent organisations, which shall keep registers of economic operators and other legal entities. We believe that such a provision is neither in accordance with the Constitution nor with the laws governing the protection of personal data. The tax administration is a state authority and as such is obliged to apply the provisions of the law, including the law governing the protection of personal data, regardless of how the body, or the data-providing organisation, acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17509	Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Dr Nenad Popović, Bojana Božanić and Gorica Gajic and the MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic together submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17510	I'll try to be brief. Dear Mr Minister, Article 36 of the original draft law regulates the way in which tax acts are supplied in writing, and provides for the delivery of tax acts to a natural person, to an entrepreneur, to a legal person, including addresses entered in the APR, including a personal taxpayer, if he has received or has given his authorised representative. When it comes to a natural person, he can receive it at the address he lives in or at the last address in the IRS. He can also receive a physical face, and he can receive a full - time member of his household. There is, to shorten the procedure, in this Article 36. It is precisely clear how acts are delivered, because we ourselves know that from the moment the act is delivered the ongoing and legal medicines in these processes. Now, by changing this bill, you're saying in an explanation that it will be more precise. You say tax acts will be delivered either in person or in the post office. It is personally considered to have been delivered at the time when the taxpayer signed it, he or the authorised person, and by mail when 15 days have expired from the date on which the tax act was handed over to the post. However, you know for yourself that taxpayers, when it comes to late obligations and how they avoid receiving tax returns. I don't know how you're going to know more precisely this way when the taxpayer received the tax code. It used to be known and it was written, it was quite precise, if the taxpayer did not want to receive the tax code, the official person who delivered it made up the official note, and that moment is considered the moment when the tax act was received. So, now, instead of saying in your explanation that it will be more precisely explained in which way and how the tax act is delivered, you have effectively narrowed down and therefore the DSS and suggests that this member be deleted and that the way in which the tax act is delivered remains as well as so far because it is both more precise and more comprehensive and clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17511	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ljubica Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17512	Thank you, and our amendment is similar to the DSS. We have suggested that Article 9 be deleted, and so far members 10 to 50 become members from 9 to 49. The provisions of Article 9 propose to amend the procedure and way of delivering tax acts to the bonds in a confusing way that could become the subject of various abuses. The rules on the delivery of tax acts are of crucial importance in the tax procedure, since the delivery of the tax bonds and other participants in the process are familiar with their obligations and, more importantly, from the point of delivery, the deadlines for taking the imposed obligations and the possible investment of the legal remedy, i.e. the appeal, begin. We believe that the proposal, that tax acts are considered to be a mandatory person and other participants of the procedure, over the course of 15 days from the day of handover of the same post office, indirectly restricts the right of those persons to invest in a legal remedy or appeal, and that the responsibility for the delivery of the pact is transferred from a tax officer who leads the procedure to a postal worker. In fact, since it may happen that the following act is not delivered at all, while the tax administration is at the same time asking for no feedback and continuing the procedure, it would inevitably lead the taxpayer or other participant to miss the deadline for appeal. This would cause damage to the taxpayers in cases where the complaint would be based. On this note, we consider that the existing rules of delivery by mail contained in Article 36 of the Law, which are required to be considered to be effected when a five-day period begins from the date on which the worker points out to the recipient that he can take over the tax act, a reasonable compromise between the effort to make the procedure more effective and to protect the rights of interest of the taxpayer and other participants in the process, and in this respect, the removal of the said member. We have been given the same explanation as the previous proposings under this amendment which, of course, we are not satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17513	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17514	I'll explain why I didn't accept either amendment, or why the Ministry of Finance and the IRS is against it. We have a major indiscipline in the tax system right now. One part of the non-discipline stems from inventing a variety of ways not to accept a tax solution. In this way, this is a direct proposal from the new director of the tax administration, it will no longer be possible to reverse the acceptance of the tax solution, it will go more effectively in charge, we will have equal treatment for everyone. So those taxpayers who are orderly who are safe, they are not in the category of those who will have any problem with this. The problem with this new solution will be those who charge the state tax and who, through procedural matters, try to delay the reception of the solution and thus avoid, or at least delay the payment of the obligation, which again puts those who are neat in the position of unfair competition. We are in a position to introduce equal operating conditions for everyone. We need to protect those who pay the state tax neatly. I'm often criticised by the economy why you protect people who aren't safe and why you don't support those who pay taxes regularly. I've listened to these criticisms from day to day, from month to month, and those people who are critics are right and we've solved it finally and very hard and we won't give it up, to protect first and foremost those who pay taxes neatly, not to protect those who don't do it and who invent various administrative pins to explain it. I understand your amendments, these are the reasons why I didn't accept them.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17515	Gorica Gajic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17516	We absolutely understand you, Mr. Minister. True, we need to protect only or most those who regularly pay tax obligations and we need to take measures towards irregular payers when it comes to tax obligations. However, you said in this article that we could deliver it to them personally or in the mail. The post office is thought to have been delivered when it expires 15 days from the day we handed over this tax act. You know that those who avoid tax if their tax settlement has arrived, they won't sign it personally and yet you're here to specify it. What about them when they've been avoiding them for days? So, 90 percent of those shipments we tried to hand out in person, we don't have their signature, we're going to have to wear to the post office, and most of the time, over 90% of the cases, they're going to think that the shipment was delivered by mail when it expires for 15 days. It's the only place we can call that we've delivered the shipment and that they can run legal drugs under procedural law. In the previous law, it was clear. It could also be pointed out in the tax administration, the tax act, passed for eight days, is believed to have been delivered and the procedure towards irregular payers. It's not exactly accurate here after all. In the previous article of the original law, it was much more precise. It's more general now. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17517	The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric and Zoran Ostojic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Radmil Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17518	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that the LDP has submitted to Article 9 significantly improves the text of a law relating to the delivery of tax acts. It is inadmissible for ministers to be considered that the tax act was served the moment it was handed over to the post office. It is not only Belgrade, Nis and Novi Sad that make Serbia. Serbia is also made up of small towns, such as Piroth, such as Babusnica, Zaječar, Negotina, Majdanpek. It's absolutely impossible and it's not feasible that within 15 days of the post office, mailmen blow up the tax laws of people living in rural local communities. For this reason, we have submitted an amendment which reads that the delivery of tax acts is done when it is done via mail, that 15 days from the moment the post office delivered the notice, that a taxpayer was called into the mail to come and raise the solution. Isn't that a good solution, Minister? You can't count on someone receiving a tax settlement unless they've even been taken away. He has the right to appeal. He went to the postman, couldn't find anyone at home, left a note, and from that moment on, his deadline counts. You've been telling us here for two days, Mr. Dinkut, that the state should save both the Republic and local self-government. We have also predicted this amendment that delivery can be made except for mail and by means of personal and electronic means. Isn't it the government's interest to save? What costs do you have if you make the delivery of the tax code by electronic means? Nothing. We'd have savings on paper. So it's not an obligation for the delivery to be done electronically, it's an option. I'm sure local self-government and the state could save together a few dozen million dinars in such a way. Which is why the government did not accept this amendment, which clearly determines how the delivery of tax acts can be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17519	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17520	We also insist in this law on the electronic supply of information, but the law provides for a commitment such as to enter into force on 30 June next year. So here we have to solve the question until it moves to electronic communication, and in some cases it will remain for the natural persons delivery. I'll tell you right now, they're not the target here, they're not the natural persons, they're not the local meat communities, farmers don't pay any taxes on the catastrian income of this law. So they have nothing to pay. So here's the target of legal faces, companies that avoid various delivery procedures. I've talked to people since it's very effective and 15 days is enough to deliver any solution from the moment. So, the post office is doing a good job and I can commend them. In that sense, we agree with you and we ourselves insist on the introduction of electronic communications. The commitment, however, begins to apply only from June 30th next year, and now it is voluntary. So, by then, we're going to create an appropriate information system where everyone, not only those who are big taxpayers, but also smaller ones, I'm talking about legal persons, will have to cross in an electronic manner of communication. But this here is a change in terms of avoiding procedural options for avoiding, receiving and handing and thus avoiding tax payments.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17521	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Radmil Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17522	Mr. Minister, the country's citizens don't pay taxes just, you say, about agriculture, they pay the property tax. What will happen in local self-government like Negotin where the market value of immovableity is overestimated. When you want to sell and buy an apartment, the real value is 450 or 500 euros, and 850 euros are applied in tax accounts. So that man in the country has the right to appeal. You'll agree with me. So he must have the opportunity to accept a solution before, and it's not just the case in Negotin. I'm absolutely sure that in Babusnica, in these small environments, not that there are no mailmen, but there's no one to blow up those solutions for people. We believe that our amendment is meaningful and that it improves the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17523	Veroljub Arsic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17524	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the goal of all of us who are passing laws and who are proposing laws on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is to bring our legislation in line with all other laws. I can also say that the applicants of the amendment are wrong, but they can't say whether one law is respected, and that's the Law on postal services, about a public postal operator who is responsible for delivering those solutions. It is not the only tax administration that has problems delivering solutions, but also the judicial authorities have problems delivering these solutions, and they have therefore adopted a special procedure, which regulates, especially when it comes to the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Code on Criminal Procedure and when the shipment is considered to be served. Since this part of the provision of this law has been delayed, I believe that in some national period we should harmonise the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration with the Law on Public - Postal Traffic and Postal Services and thus overcome the problem, because the fact is, but not to talk, can within 15 days, be delivered within 24 to 48 hours to any tax solution, anywhere in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, or to arrive at the address addressed. Whether or not it will be served, but there is this first attempt, a second attempt, to beat up a tax payer's front door, and it is believed that from the moment the postal officer does so, he is believed to have been served with the solution and thus we have solved the problem of delivering tax solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17525	The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Miodrag Djidic, Sanja Cekovic, Milovan Markovic, Bosko Ristic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Miodrag Djidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17526	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, I must first say that I do not know what order these amendments to the Tax Procedure Act are in the tax administration since it was adopted in basic form and I suggest that the next time changes are prepared to go with the new law. I think it's really time for a new and better quality Tax Procedure and Tax Administration to be passed. As far as our amendment is concerned, I must say, I absolutely support everything that has been pointed out by the predecessors in particular by DSS Commissioner Gorica Gajic and there is not much to be added. So far, the provisions on the delivery of tax solutions, i.e. tax acts, were absolutely in line with the general administrative procedure. Now he's stepping down and I think it's a very bad solution than I even think it's against a constitutional solution because he's getting into the fundamental rights of citizens. I can accept the reasons presented by the minister for delivering tax solutions especially to the legal entities of entrepreneurs, but that doesn't mean that this is why we need to change the law now and that this legal provision is against the constitution of even thinking who are safe now have problems. The unconscious will find a chance again, and I must say that these unconsciouss are much less than the thrift ones find the opportunity to twist, and they will be punished for saving. Therefore, it cannot be considered that the delivery act by the Tax Administration has been completed by the whole procedure and that the taxpayer has received a solution. If he doesn't get a solution for some reason, does he lose his right to a legal remedy because of his impeccable mail, or because he's in bad relations with the postman? So, he won't be able to file a complaint about a comprehensive solution and he'll have big problems to fix it later, and I think the ministers should accept this amendment, that the solutions so far, as far as this is concerned, are good, and that in some other way they try to stimulate the unconscious to receive regular tax solutions. For this reason, we support the amendment submitted by the DSS, because we think it's a better amendment than we suggested, and our amendment concerns approximately, and then the minister should at least accept the physical part. So our amendment concerns natural persons, and the minister said it doesn't apply to natural persons, so correct, but I think the DSS amendment is better than ours, and that's why we're going to vote for that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17527	National MP Miodrag Nikolic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanović, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komić, Natasa Vukković, Gorica Mojović, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojević. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has a National MP, Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17528	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, we have provided for the removal of this Article 18, which significantly reduces the transparency of the procedure and allows for the process of forced collection and sale of movable values to determine the price by direct contract, i.e. to be rapidly sold and we believe that a large space for corruption is left, if we know how these procedures are normally carried out and that there are various malversions and attempts to reduce the price of mobility sold. We believe that the current solution is more acceptable, more appropriate, especially as for the first and second calls are reduced by this member percentage of the value of the things being sold, so we believe that this member should be deleted and that it should not be an integral part of the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17529	: The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Miodrag Djidić, Sanja Cekovic, Milovan Markovic, Bosko Ristic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Miodrag Djidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17530	This article was regulated by the way of selling seized mobile items in the tax procedure. I believe that this is a good solution that has been given, which it says - that if there is only one bidder to the advertised oral competition for the sale of items in Item 1 of this Article, the mobile stuff can be sold to the bidder, by direct contract. Why is this a good solution? Because I know from practice that the "x" times only one bidder appeared and the procedure stalled. It's causing a lot of damage to the state, because the state doesn't have enough of its own warehouses to keep the goods seized and it has to rent space. It's a huge cost that happens on that occasion, and I think that solution is good. What I disagree with, and we have submitted amendments to that, is that in the first oral public competition, as set out for sale by a direct contract, movable things can be sold at the price of 60% of the estimated value. So far it's 75%, we think it should be less than 75%, but not 60%. That's a big cut. We suggest it's 70%. In the second part, on the second oral public competition, the moving matter cannot be sold at a price below 50% of the estimated value. Now the minister suggests, or government, that it be 30%. We think 30% is really very small. We think it's more appropriate to be 40%. If you stay at 30%, I think it's better if we give these things to humanitarian organizations, or for some other purpose, to people who need them, not to sell them for nothing. I think it's more acceptable to be 40% anyway. It's a huge 30% reduction. That's less than a third of the value of confiscated stuff.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17531	Thank you. National MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Đuric and Zoran Ostojic together submitted the 24th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the National Ambassador Radmil Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17532	Thank you. Our amendment reads that Article 24 is deleted. First of all, we believe that it is not a good solution to add in the basic text of the law the possibility that the tax inspector can now temporarily take away the equipment of those persons who perform, in fact, the undeclared activity, for the reason that they are severely punished, because such equipment is taken away before the offence is carried out. That's not the face, Mr. Minister, to blame for the gray economy. The Liberal Democratic Party has indicated that an increase in VAT, an increase in excise duties, will cause an increase in the number of hanging citizens not to work. It is absolutely incorrect for those same people to be punished by giving tax inspectors the opportunity to take away their property before the criminal proceedings were carried out and to determine their responsibility. If we pointed out a few months ago that the increase in VAT and the increase in excise duty will lead to a larger gray economy, then we believe that these citizens cannot be held accountable, but the government of the Republic of Serbia and that the government of the Republic of Serbia cannot further punish those same citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17533	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17534	I don't agree with you because first of all, unregistered activity has nothing to do with increasing VAT by 2 percentage points, or excise duties. Unregistered activity has existed before, and unfortunately it has escalated in the last five, six years. It's absolutely unfair competition for all those who work legally, no matter what area, from bakery to industrial activity. If one baker pays a flat tax, because he's small, why wouldn't another baker do it? If that's what makes him who bakes meat, why shouldn't everyone who bakes meat do it? Maybe I've listed two least areas where it's happening. That, unfortunately, is getting more and more. I've got more and more complaints from the businessmen that they can't handle the unfair competition that's totally working on black. So, he's doing business, he doesn't pay any taxes. Not that they paid 18% of VAT, so 2 became a problem, but they pay nothing. I have to admit that a good part of the blame for this is borne by the tax administration, which has not been paying any attention to the rise of this activity since 2007; it has not controlled the issue of fiscal accounts; it literally has not dealt with it; it has focused only on those large taxpayers. From the tax point of view, the fact is that large taxpayers make the most of their income in the budget. However, the fact is that there are a lot of gray economies in such actions. If you look at fleas today, it's all smuggled goods, there's textiles, there's shoes, there's everything. There's no customs pay, nothing, no VAT, no anything else, and it still looks like they're legally working because they're paying a few drinks to local self-government. It is a simple state that is now, it takes years, but it must start to break because those who work in the legal sector can no longer endure and they are the ones who suffer most, and only elsewhere was the budget of the local community, if it is local incomes, whether the Republic and the province, if it is rural or republican revenues. In that sense, we have given gradualness in the proposal to control this unregistered activity, so that we will not permanently rob people of property, or goods, or equipment, but temporarily. Temporarily and then you give a deadline, register with the APR, be if you're a little cobbler, or be a bookie, depending on your performance and pay that 10% tax that's relatively minimal. Give what others give. It's just, you have to, if you're an entrepreneur, you have to be in the ranks of other entrepreneurs. As soon as they register, they get their equipment back, they get their goods back, if that happens to them once. If that happens more than once, then it's permanently preyed on. I must say, when I mentioned the tax administration, from 2007 till here, the new director of the tax administration informed me of one defeating piece of information. You know that there are about 200,000 fiscal registers on the ground, slightly less than that, after the suspension of the obligation to have them craftsmen. We have abolished that obligation, but even so those who remain, who have the obligation to use fiscal registers, that is almost 200,000 on the ground. Many of them have those so-called. GPRS devices, where the tax administration can on a daily basis control what happens to traffic. No one lives in the IRS until I asked that question a month ago, controlled those GPRS reports at all, so many, tens of thousands of taxpayers, stopped and stopped sending them without any sanctions. Now we've sent them a letter first, so it doesn't turn out to be a sudden introduction of discipline. People, go, use what's a legal obligation. Send reports, because we're going to punish. We didn't want to punish before we warned, because the idea was if it was this indiscipline for many years, we can't suddenly introduce a complete change now, but the warning is something we've given. In this way, I mean, we don't have any more room for any tolerance. I also said in the opening statement, according to the Law on fiscal registers, those citizens, who don't get a fiscal bill, have the right not to pay for the goods they bought, or if they were in a restaurant, a meal they ate or a drink they drank. The fiscal register law allows citizens not to pay unless they have received a fiscal bill. If you don't get a fiscal bill, that money goes black. That's quite clear. This damages the budgets and cities and the budget of the Republic, and when we ask the question, we all want to have more money for both pregnant women and kindergartens and social protection and culture, and somehow we regret that now we are looking for discipline that everyone pays taxes. He can't do both. These nice things have to be paid from somewhere. If not charged equally to all, according to their economic capabilities, then the system does not work. In that sense, we have to protect those who are regular taxpayers, and that's why we're strict and sharpened here, not only can we prey on goods sold on black, but also equipment that produces them, but it's a temporary confiscation. If within 45 days whoever seized it is registered, he gets it back. It's not our goal to stop people from working. Our goal is to get them into the legal system. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17535	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Radmil Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17536	Mr. Minister, we are not in favour of the gray economy, but we believe that before a misdemeanor is conducted, it is not correct for people to confiscate equipment. The goods are fine, but not the equipment. You're saying that unregistered operations have nothing to do with VAT. Mr. Minister, do you know how many people who had registered shops have closed their stores and are now working on black, which is why, due to an increase in VAT? You were talking about the roasters, the bakers. So, a large number of entrepreneurs shut down the stores and now they're working on black. It is, of course, bad, but it is not their fault, it is the government and the economic situation in society and reduced traffic due to the increase in VAT and excise duties. You're saying that since 2007, no one's controlled the gray economy, you've learned that now and you've been the minister for a year. Now I ask you – will someone be responsible for not doing their job six years ago?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17537	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17538	I can't agree with you. One who works black doesn't work black because VAT is 18% or 20%, he doesn't pay any taxes to the state, or taxes on wages, or contributions. VAT is the smallest thing for black people. It's simple, they work on black and don't pay for anything. An increase of 2% certainly is no reason for someone to move from law to the illegal sector, especially since there is a VAT refund for those who are legally operating. I can agree that it would be good to have lower taxes and wages contributions, that's the basic cost for every businessman, labour taxes. The consumption tax, at the end of the line, is borne by the user. So, consumers. It does not burden him who manufactures, burdens him with taxes and contributions to profits. That's the point. Here, we are now reducing the rate of salary tax from 12 to 10%, due to an increase in the non-taxable share of income from 8 to 11000 total burdens by some two percentage points. That's a little bit. If someone asks if it's enough – it's not enough. We're aware of that. But right now, there's such an economic crisis that we're not able to go with a bigger reduction. But then again, if there are those who not only now in the last year, but in the last few years have regularly reconciled their obligations to the state, and there are those who pay nothing, this unfair situation, this unfair competition has to be interrupted once.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17539	The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric and Zoran Ostojic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Dusan Petrovic, Miodrag Djidic, Sanja Cekovic, Milovan Markovic, Bosko Ristic and Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 31st amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic together submitted to the 31st amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) He has the word Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17540	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, Article 167a. The original law regulates the status of Deputy Director of the Tax Administration. Paragraph 3 states that "the Deputy Director of the Tax Administration is appointed by the Government, for a period of five years, on a proposal from the minister and on a public competition implemented". The amendments and additions made by this member and this stance say that "the deputy director is appointed by the government, for a period of five years, on a proposal from the minister, according to a law governing the position of civil servants". The Institute of Public Competition has been deleted and the DSS has therefore responded with its amendment, which suggests that the position that was previously in this article, where it is chosen on the basis of a public competition, remain. In the light of the non-acceptance of this amendment, you have called for the Law on civil servants and for the fulfillment of the position under this law. I would like to ask you something to explain to me, simply that because of you and for our sake, we solve this confusion, because a member of the 66th Law on civil servants in Chapter 3, filling the position, says – under 1, an internal or public competition is being held to fill the situation; 2) an internal competition is required if the position is filled with the Government. Furthermore, in article 68, it says – when the position is filled by the Government, the internal and public competition is advertised by the staff management service, with only state officials from the government's authority and the Government's Office, who are rated in the previous two years by the assessment "extensively prominent". So, referring to the Civil Service Act, you have erased the Institute of Public Competition, so I ask you, is this said in article 68 that the Government can also announce an internal and public competition, can also refer to the choice, i.e. the appointment of the Deputy Director of the Tax Administration? You know what, you've all, especially the ruling party, in election campaigns mostly advocated the deparation of personnel in high-level state services, in public enterprises, and thus, somehow, more and more in laws are elegantly bypassing public competitions when it comes to state administrations. Public competitions are bypassed when it comes to public enterprises. The Democratic Party of Serbia, not because you promised it, but because it believes that all professional people should be allowed to come to some high positions, such as this, when it is only in the power of the minister, who proposes to the Government, somehow has the impression that they will again remain within the frameworks of the people who are on the floor according to party membership, and also, given that only people from the state administration, who have an assessment of how the law stands, I am afraid that many young people, who are of quality, who are professional, if they are not party members and parties, especially if they are not party parties in power, will wait better to come to some high functions, although they are professional, although that function suits them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17541	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17542	I'm sorry, but the deputy director of the IRS can't be a young man who's just starting to work. Realistically, the Deputy Director of the Tax Administration needs some experience. The Director of the Tax Administration is elected in a public competition and it remains in the Law, and for the deputy we suggested that there is a possibility of an internal competition, but is not excluded from the public, in accordance with the Law on Civil Servants, which absolutely does not mean that whoever would be elected to an internal competition comes from the Tax Administration itself, must be some party vessel. Evidence is the present state. Mr. Dejan Stojanovic, deputy director of the Tax Administration, has never been a member of any party. He's been working for 20 and a few years at the IRS. Simply, the competition institution itself does not mean that it means a safe choice of party staff, if the internal competition is at stake, or a public competition does not mean that party employment is disabled, that we are fully open. What I can guarantee in the institutions that are under my authority, no one in these places can function as a party. So it has to be a professional face. An example of Dejan Stojanovic, who is now deputy director and director of Mr. Ivan Sinic, who has nothing to do with any party here in Serbia or anywhere, says that we really respect the criteria of professionality in the Tax Administration. The same goes for all others who are at the top of the pyramid.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17543	According to the amendment, the word has been issued by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17544	I believe, regardless of what the amendment has been proposed by the MPs from another parliamentary group, that a good amendment should be adopted. I don't see why the government is afraid of public competitions. I don't know why, if so far in the Law it has been said that the Deputy Director has appointed the Government for a period of five years on a proposal from the Minister, and according to a public competition, it is now proposed the same thing, but there is no public competition? Are you afraid that if a public competition is called, the minister will not be able to make his proposal again? If nothing, give a glimpse of democracy in terms of elections for this, so that they can compete, and in the event of an eclectic violation that they can also knock down the competition. Like this -- we're erasing the competition, I don't see why? We stand for competition everywhere, and here we don't. And I don't understand why this good amendment wasn't accepted?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17545	Thank you. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Miodrag Djidic, Sanja Cekovic, Milovan Markovic, Bosko Ristic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Miodrag Djidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17546	Here, the proposed amendments are amended in Article 169p, the Tax Service Act on Tax Procedures in the Tax Administration, where the salaries of tax officials are regulated. Two new positions are introduced, according to the provisions laid down in paragraphs 1 to 6 of this Article, so that the amount of the salary of tax officials and deputies in the Tax Administration is not less than the salary of the person employed in the regional unit’s competent authority, local self-government in the same business. We have proposed our amendment to delete this position because we believe that in this way it will be favored centres, large cities, where there is a strong local tax administration, where for various reasons, primarily because of the economic situation of tax officials working in local tax administrations have higher salaries. This will make workers of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Serbia different rewards for the same job. In Belgrade, for example, tax officials working in the IRS will have a significantly higher salary than those who do the same job in the Shop, Zajecar, Bora or I don't know where. I think this is how the IRS workers are discriminated against. Since you ministers are pushing for decentralisation, it is my suggestion that you look to raise wages right there, in smaller environments, right in that store, Zajecaru, Boru for a simple reason for people to stay working in those environments. If their salary is lower, they will seek a better life to come to Kragujevac, Nis, Belgrade and that is very bad. To us, the southeast of Serbia is empty. People leave, go away justifiably because they don't have enough means to live. Let's not destimulate them yet, and let's say -- the great ones in Belgrade will have twice as much to pay for the same job because the City of Belgrade pays so much to its tax officials. I'd like you to take care of this, because southeastern Serbia is in big trouble. People are leaving, no personnel, let's not punish them yet. Please adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17547	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17548	I agree with what you're saying, but you probably didn't get what we gave this member of the law as a possibility. We've given us the possibility that nothing prevents us from having balance options in the budget itself, to reconcile the salaries of the IRS, the republics, with those at the bar. If, for example, the salary of a local tax inspector is greater than the Republic's, we'll go if we have budget options with an increase in wages at that level. This does not mean just for those republican tax inspectors working in Belgrade, but for all of Serbia. That means we have no ban on this law to give that salary to a republican inspector from Belgrade to give the same to the one from the Shop, Leskovec, Somboro. It will be only a matter of balance options, but this law gives us the right to, let's say, if the salary of the local tax administration in Belgrade is significantly higher than the salaries of employees in the Republic Tax Administration, regardless of what they do in Belgrade, if we coordinate it for Belgrade in the republic, we can transfer it all over Serbia if we have money for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17549	The word has a folk MP, Miodrag Djidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17550	I absolutely agree with you if that's the case, but you said so yourself – if there's any money. I wonder if it's possible there's money in Belgrade and there's no money for the Shop? So it should be the same for everyone. If it increases in Belgrade, it automatically increases in the Shop. If it does not increase in Belgrade, it will not go anywhere, as Belgrade has the largest.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17551	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17552	We certainly will not selectively increase, or adjust wages, but evenly. If we have a chance at all, but this law gives us that possibility if we budget these funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17553	The word has a folk MP, Miodrag Djidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17554	I understand, I understand, and it's okay I still have a request to take care of Serbia, cities south of Sava and Danube, because the standard of living is much lower. I remain on the proposal to maybe pay doctors, tax officials and teachers, teachers in underdeveloped areas to be equal, at least with Belgrade, and maybe even bigger because it's a way for people to stay there. If you give them the chance to have a normal life, to have normal incomes a little higher than average, they'll certainly stay there. Even if you infrastructureize their city, the village will be no problem, people will not move and Serbia will have much less problems than it is now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17555	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have submitted an amendment to Article 34. A representative of the Proposer, mr. Mladjan Dinkic, finance and economy minister, accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17556	This amendment practically allows for the insufficient, or extremely achieved results in the performance of the tax administration’s affairs, the tax officer and the tenant to be reduced, i.e. to increase the basic salary by up to 30%. I'm just asking the question is it also thought about all other jobs in the state administration that are also doing security work, or are they working unwittingly, to enable stimulation or in a certain way a reduction of income? Or does that mean that one who's closer to the cash register can be rewarded, the truth can be reduced pay, and everyone else is in a different treatment? That's why I think it is necessary to think if it is not already done in this law, about the possibility of stimulating other far more responsible places in the country where people are doing their job securely and contributing, perhaps not filling the budget, but contributing to the achievement of citizens' interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17557	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17558	I am absolutely a supporter of such a principle, that those who do more are more rewarded and vice versa, those who are not sufficiently determined to be punished in some way. I've always been against an orderly in any action. I supported my time and the bill of captainship in health because he adopts that principle. Also, as regards this amendment to the Tax Administration under the same pay mass, those with better results will be allowed to be rewarded with a higher salary of up to 30%. At the same time, those who do not advocate and who are found to have done bad things can be punished with a reduction in wages but no more than 30%, but the mass of wages remains the same. I advocate that other laws provide for this possibility of rewarding, but also sanctioning because not every man is the same and the equation has never been good.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17559	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17560	Believe me, I'm a happy man because when there was a law here in the National Assembly in the last term, with regard to limiting wages in local self-government, I proposed an amendment adopted by the Finance Committee to enable stimulation of up to 30% for local self-government workers, given that at that time there were limited salaries in local self-government for independent professional associates, for those with colleges between 19 and 23 thousand dinars. At the same time, Mr. Minister and his representatives from the parliamentary group, who were in the Finance Committee, were opposed to allowing this 30 per cent stimulation. The Finance Committee passed the argument but it couldn't go through. I'm happy we came to the right thing to do, though, to make it possible to stimulate everyone who works well. If this is a practice in all the proposals that go from the Ministry of Finance to the Government if the Prime Minister is elected for that position, later defending the government's position rather than his personal views, we will be able to witness at least one such good move. Anyway, I'm happy there's been an evolution in Mr. Minister's views.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17561	National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic together submitted the 36th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17562	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 177. The Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration provide for penalties for legal persons and entrepreneurs who do not bear, do not account or do not pay the tax liability. So far in Article 177. Your laws were for legal persons of 100,000 dinars, for entrepreneurs of 10,000 or 12,500 dinars. Now, amendments to the Law on Legal Persons provide fines of 500,000 dinars for entrepreneurs of 20,000 or 30,000 dinars. That's an increase three and five times. Mr. Minister, we can't just charge our budget with fines. It is obvious that here we are talking about those legal persons and entrepreneurs who are legally operating, who basically get tax solutions for taxes and contributions, which pay mainly those taxes and contributions, of course, what are the conditions for turning back years and we know for ourselves, are not always in the situation that they always account for, that they always pay on time and that they always file a tax return. Now, with these dragon penalties, we're going to re-load all the burden of budgeting and filling budget holes into small and medium-sized enterprises, which are squirming about their business and trying to survive on this market. On the one hand, we have tycoon companies that owe this country hundreds of millions of euros and we cannot charge those debts. On the other hand, we have a grey economy that's getting higher and higher, where absolutely no one is paying this country anything. I'm the only one left who pays for something on a regular basis. If he's late, here's a five-time sentence. Believe me, you yourself know how business is done today and you know how hard it is to open a shop today, hire five or 15 workers, regularly settle all obligations to the state and survive in these difficult conditions. Come on, Mr. Minister, try to get into this assembly a law on curbing the gray economy, to find one way to curb the gray economy, or at least reduce it to the least possible. On the other hand, give the way, even if it is a Lex specialis, how we charge the millions of euros owed by tycoons and companies that were generated by the purchase of social enterprises, where capital was extracted. The debt to the state remained. The workers stayed on the street. The budget was denied, so last year, by writing off the interest, which is by adopting a law on the write-off of interest, a whole budget of the Republic of Serbia, the DSS pointed out exactly that, we wrote off through the write-off of interest. Now we're going to use this article to try to discipline taxpayers financially, by increasing their fines to five or three times. Let's see how we get others into taxpayers and then go ahead and fill the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17563	The Minister tells them.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17564	Please don't be angry, but what you're saying is pure social demagogy. For what reason? I was talking about how the unregistered ones would complain about why we're preying on goods and property, or why we're going to be looting, since it hasn't happened so far, to equalize them with those who pay taxes on a regular basis. Those who regularly pay taxes will not be punished, but the practice of all countries in the world shows that there is no discipline without threatened sanctions. I wish none were realized, but practice shows that if there are no sanctions, only indiscipline is even greater, I'm talking about financial indiscipline, although it probably applies to some other areas of life, lawyers know that. This shows a number of examples. This effect, it is not our idea to impose stricter sanctions on them, but to remind all those who do not adhere to the law strictly, that they will simply be no longer in a privileged position compared to those who pay the tax fairly. On the contrary, the punishments have been threatened with the greatest of all enterprises. You used the term - tycoon companies. The biggest punishments here are threatened precisely for them, not for these little ones. Of course, it's primarily for us to collect taxes from those who have the most. In that sense, in order not to report later, I must say that we have introduced a consistent, in the entire Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act, tightening penalties. One of these also applies to those who have more than 35 million dinar assets, and not to report until 30 June of this year, we have finally imposed one serious or relatively serious penalty, which is that all those who do not report assets greater than 35 million dinars will pay when they are determined that they have not done so within 3% of undeclared assets. Then they will comb how they acquired that property, how much income they had, what the value of the property is, and all the difference between the amount of assets and the amount of income they can't prove, they will pay 20% extra taxes. So far, no one has wanted to report property or very few people have reported it because there was no serious sanctions. Here, 919 people have reported up to today that they have more than 35 million dinar assets in Serbia. That's about 350,000 euros. You'll see how many there will be on June 30th with this punishment. Without sanctions, there is no discipline. Often they resent, perhaps justifiable, why don't you charge the taxes to the rich? Here, now we've imposed sanctions, imposed sanctions for non-reporting and for the first time put the deadline not into the sublegal act, but into the law. The law now states that the deadline is June 30th. He can't move anymore, because he's going into the text of this law and he's going to punish 3% of the value of undeclared property for anyone who doesn't report it, and then he's going to go and control whether anyone can prove where he got the wealth, the house, whatever it is or can't. Of course, the one who illegally acquired it is not the subject of the tax collector, he is the subject of the police, the prosecution, and it is dealt with that way. But whoever did it didn't break the law, but working in what's-his-name. Some gray zone, but not breaking some law, not robbing, but simply not applying, it has to pay a 20% tax on the difference between assets and income.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17565	The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17566	Mr. Minister, to be clear, we are not in favour of tax evasion going unpunished. We advocate that financial discipline should be on the level and there should be penalties for all those taxpayers who don't account, don't pay and don't report taxes on time. We just wanted to say with this amendment that it's not appropriate for those penalties to increase five times. Why don't we leave another time of the same sentence at the level of 100,000 for legal persons and 10,000 for entrepreneurs, and that tax reform and tax mechanisms will be the ones that will create an environment for the birth of new firms, for the opening of new shops, for the employment of a larger number of people, to stimulate the opening of businesses, to stimulate a large number of employees? None of the legal entities care about being punished because they do not pay their dues. Let us stimulate them, let us stimulate small and medium-sized enterprises, to create such an environment with tax reform that they can work uninterruptedly, to know what their obligations are, not just by drastically increasing their obligations five times. It's not social demagogy. It's a reality in the field. Today it is very difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises to do business. They know how much punishment they pay when they don't pay. Let's not climb those sentences just five times more. That's the whole point of keeping it at the present level.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17567	The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17568	I just wanted to help in the debate, if that's some kind of contribution, I think the amendment promoter has the right thinking, fully in line with the proposal for a legal text, but I'm carrying out the wrong conversation. Thinking is instead of criminal fiscal rigorousism going to stimulating measures and that's exactly what it's all about. The point is that the penalty significantly exceeds the value of a hidden tax. That's exactly what's been suggested. This, in fact, interferes more with entering legal flows of economics and systems. The point is just in the legal text.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17569	I ask the messengers not to speak to each other. Is anyone else answering for a word? (No) On Article 36 of the amendment, MP Miodrag Nikolic submitted. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 37th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popović, Bojana Bozanić and Gorica Gajic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popović, Bojana Bozanić and Gorica Gajic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 40th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Slobodan Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17570	Dear President, honourable ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak unitedly, if you please, of Article 40 of Section 15, which is deleted and of Article 43(2), which is also deleted because it is identical to matter, and by Article 43, I will not report. Both of these members speak of the removal of entities from the register, subject to one condition, of the compulsory delivery of the tax administration's assurance of tax obligations not exceeding five days old. So far, practice has shown that such restrictive provisions, such as this, are non-road and do not meet the purpose. Why aren't they fulfilling their purpose? Because these provisions can't be fully regulated by all entities. For example, founders of companies or so-called companies. Capital companies, where there is a condition for winding down, and I can't get confidence from the tax administration that they have fulfilled the tax obligations, they remain in the register and make up one balance, and not to say that the electronic database is making an even bigger ballast and full load, so it's already happened to us a year ago, it hasn't been over, that we had to delete and that we're conditionally writing off interest on the settlement of the tax debt on these fictitious enterprises. These companies only exist on paper, i.e. pans, economic operators only exist on paper. We wish to achieve greater transparency, reality and justification in the system of public functions. So I would suggest to the MPs and the minister that we reconsider that something like this, in order to simplify the law, we come to a solution. We have a prerogative for those who are debtors, and we need to delete them and that we can charge the debt if it's billable. If he's not chargeable, we can't charge him anyway. I have another obligation. PUPS MPs have not declared themselves on the set of these laws. I think yesterday's session misread the positive initiative of our MPs to participate and support those amendments that, according to us, give positive results and to propose and fight for the amendments ourselves. It can only improve certain laws and legal solutions, and in no case are we to define, through which we have not shown that we will not support any legal solutions, otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17571	National MP Miodrag Nikolic submitted to the 41st amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic jointly submitted to the 43rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 46th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Đurić and Zoran Ostojić. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17572	All these tax laws came to the Assembly by emergency procedure, including the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which should, under the Bill of Law, take effect the next day from the day of publication. We don't think it's a good idea for the tax year for the law to come into effect immediately after the announcement. We think it takes a certain amount of time for taxpayers to get to know this law. That is why we have proposed that this law enter into force 30 days from the day of its publication. Also, if this law is so good and so urgent, then it really takes an additional explanation - why are all sublaws passed within six months? We suggested that that deadline be three months. We believe that the deadline is sufficient for the government and the competent ministry to propose a sublegal act, so that this law can be applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17573	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17574	We predicted a three-month period for what is most urgent and what the economy will benefit the most, which is that all taxes and contributions are paid by a single tax application instead of 35 current reports and that everything is paid in one payment account instead of the current seven, and sometimes, even 205, in some theoretical sense. It's time for us to do the sublegal act for three months. Six months is for some things that aren't as urgent as this, but we've been going through this procedure just because of the redistribution of the administrative costs of the economy and the effect that it gets in this way is over a billion and a half dinars in a year, which people, instead of using paperwork, will be able to pay taxes and contributions with only one application. That's why we've accepted this three-month deadline, and the rest that's also important, and it can wait a little while, that's six months.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17575	Parliamentarians Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Đuric and Zoran Ostojic together submitted to the 50th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed the search of all the Amandans, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, individuality and generality in the day to vote. We are moving to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on APPROVAL OF SOCIAL OBJECTIVES under Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that on the occasion of the search in detail of the 4th and 5th points of the agenda of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Contributions to Obligations of Social Insurance and Proposals of the Law on Changes and Supplements of the Law on the Tax on Income of Citizens, in addition to the Representatives of the Master Mladjan Dinkić, Minister of Finance and Business, I called on the sittings to attend and Alexander Ljubic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Industry, Irina Stevanović Gavrović, Assistant Minister of Finance and Economy, Milica Bisic, Special Advisor of Finance and Business Minister of Finance, Svetlana Kuzmanović Zivanovic, Head of the Group for Income Tax and Social Security in the Ministry of Finance and Industry and Biljana Baucal Rajić, the Council for Social Security and Social Security in the Republic of the Republic of the Republic. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Ranka Savic, Bojana Bozanić, Gorica Gajic, Dr Nenad Popović, Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Mićić, Ivan Andrić, Bojan Đurić, Zoran Ostojić, Borislav Stefanović, Prof. Dr Janko Veseinović, Gordana Čomić, Natasa Vučković, Gorica Mojović, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Srdjan Milivojevic, Marijan Rističević, Olgica Batić and Vesna Stepić. You have received the Report of the Finance Committee of the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Ranka Savic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs Bojan Bozanići Gorica Gajic together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17576	Thank you, Honored Chairman, Honored Representatives of the Government, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament. We have submitted an amendment to delete Article 1(2)'s position, i.e. to remain a solution like that in the current current law, so that the untaxed part of the profit remains 8,776 and not 11,000. I didn't really think you'd accept this, but I still wanted to point out a few things that, by amending this law, would come or go into realisation, which means that, in some ways, local self-government is still being denied for some part of the funds. It seems to me that now, the salaries will certainly not increase, that I'm sure, that a lot of employers will pay these 11,000 dinars over the bill, nothing will be taxed. That percentage of profit premiums of 80% is now reduced by 10%. I say 80% that go to local self-government won't flow into local budgets. Anyway, probably the rest of the profits will be blacked out. I think our goal here should be, above all, to take care of the creation of new jobs on employment and primarily youth employment. I've already talked about investing in the economy, providing living conditions and the work of young people who will remain in these local self-governments. One of my colleagues used to say that, but if we don't have enough resources to get local self-government... First of all, I'm going to start from the local structure to edit it, to build it, not even investors can come, can't come and develop any economy, and therefore young people can't come back from university centers to where they come from because there's no stimulant. Through this kind of leaving certain incomes to local self-government and non-depreciation, we can also help young people come back and that's some kind of decentralisation. How and how we're going to help the economy through the increase in this untaxable part is, as far as I've seen, by some estimates, I really didn't count, 50 or 60 dinars per job, which isn't much. In any case, I would like to point out one more thing, that this contribution tax on compulsory social security is paid for the entire amount of earnings and that percentage now in the amount of 24% goes into the republican budget, and the income tax is paid only to that part of over 11,000 of which is one percent reduced. The local self-government goes 80%. Again, when everything is collected and taken away is much less resources, much less local income and less investment in the local environment by local budgets, and therefore much less young people return to the local environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17577	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17578	Let me get some numbers straight. So, with an increase in the untaxable share of wages from 8,700 to 11,000 dinars, the economy is disbursing an effective billion and 700 million dinars. It's not such a small number. The second thing is that the burden, especially the lowest earnings, decreases from 8.6 to 6.4%. So of this increase in the amount to the non-taxable part of income, the greatest benefit will be the most underdeveloped areas where there are more objectively more labour intensive activities than in some major city centres, and that will contribute to more people being able to work, because here the biggest discharge will be given to those investing in labour-intense industries. This favors them the most, and our idea was to go the other way, that through the dispensation of the economy, especially labour intensive activities we stimulate employment, so that when more people get a reduced salary tax of 10 instead of 12%, then more will return to local self-government in the next phase. That's our logic. By stimulating the economy to fill the budget, not vice versa.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17579	The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric and Zoran Ostojic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was brought together by MPs Bojana Bozanić and Gorica Gajic, together with Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Gordana Komić, Natasa Vučković, Gorica Mojović, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17580	That's why I didn't answer the phone before. Certainly stimulating the economy should lead to budgeting. I think it's the right thing to do. In any case, what we're proposing, I'm not sure because that's the basic meaning of this law, or the amendment of the law, that you're going to accept it, but I don't think that something else is going to change in the long term. That's what I'm thinking and what I was talking about yesterday, that at this point in May, in June half of the financial year, we can do something like this and help local self-government this year. They repeat once again that we should insist on some longer-term reforms. I don't think this will give you the long-term effect you might expect. You once said you liked criticism. In any case, in addition to criticising certain solutions, we would also like to make certain proposals, which is what we agree with the Fiscal Council, which is that we should work on reforming the pension system in a complete sense, and not only this way, that I must say, the cost of one part of the budgeting of local self-government is filled with the pension fund, reforming the subsidies that we give to public enterprises and solving the problem of these losers and going to solve these problems, that the loans and loans we take more into production and investment for which we expect to restore production and generate some new jobs. I believe that you agree with the rationalization of jobs in the state administration, that we may be a little bit more concerned with the state apparatus, because local self-government seems to respect this rationalization of jobs, especially because they are being punished by the depriving of transfers, so they have to take care of it. I believe you'll agree that these ways and solutions to the problem are good and we have to go to it. I really think that before we start with these reforms, which I don't think, on a longer-term basis, they're going to give us any greater effects, we certainly have to deal with these things to synchronise all the laws and reforms. The sooner we get into it, I believe we'll have success. If we tighten the belt in general for all the long term, I've already talked about it, we're certainly not going to have those who do this to benefit, nor are they likely to get political points in those first few years, but they'll certainly have much more success later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17581	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17582	I have nothing to add here, but to absolutely agree with what you've said, literally with everything you've said. And I said myself in the opening statement that these measures are not enough and that we have to look for additional solutions and that we have to do it as soon as possible. I hope that in the next two weeks we will complete our consultations within the government and that we will go before you in the Assembly with certain solutions that would go in the direction you're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17583	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17584	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, this member is the best confirmation that this government, headed by the SNS, whose finances Mr Dinkic, has no concept, no plan whatsoever, no policy regarding the economic development of the country and evidence that this government is lurking in the dark, from which they come...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17585	Mr. Veselinović, please, it's already a principle debate, go back to the member. I'm even embarrassed to intervene, and you know very well that you're not talking about a member. Let the government go, criticise when it's the place, and now return to the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17586	Chairman, I highly appreciate you, however, I don't know how you think I'm going to explain to the citizens what is behind the fact that this government, a recently mentioned coalition at the head of the SNS, is introducing a tax, or a 24% salary contribution, instead of the 22% so far. This government through this member and such a fragile economy, which has so far been measured, and I will mention them – by increasing VAT from 18% to 20%, by increasing the income tax from 10% to 15%, etc., in this situation. When previous tax laws were passed, we pointed out that they would not lead to any redundancies of the economy, on the one hand, or to a better budget. The fact is that this government is unable to collect taxes, that it is a major financial indiscipline, which Minister Mladjan Dinkic himself is talking about, but that they do not, in all likelihood, have a way to implement it. Instead, they are existing, surviving businessmen, the surviving economy burden new taxes and contributions. In this way, funds are reduced by local self-government, and through other fiscal commitments, they are filled with an empty republican budget that is empty due to the government's measure of the Republic of Serbia. We have pointed out, again, that it cannot be with partial measures, which come to this assembly overnight, which are not experts, experts from this area looked at, gave their advice, which, ultimately, neither the IMF nor any international community has given its position on this matter, in the end and we do not have an arrangement with the IMF thanks to this government, they are in some way driven out of Serbia, and now we will need it very much, we have indicated that this will lead to serious economic problems in the long term, per citizen of Serbia. We have indicated that the budget register will not be charged, and that citizens will become increasingly difficult to reconcile their obligations. Mr. Chairman, I now explain this amendment. We have come to the conclusion that again the government is proposing an increase in contributions. Instead of proposing measures that will relieve the economy, which will lead to the promotion of management and businesses to employ new people, the government is proposing an increase in contributions, which can only destimulate businessmen. In that sense, we have no expectations of this government. We have submitted 63 amendments, one that is important for culture has been accepted, and all other amendments have not been accepted. No understanding, no will to hear the other side and no will to talk to us as partners. We simply suggest that this government is causing damage to the citizens, causing damage to the state and leading the state into bankruptcy. With that bankruptcy, he takes the citizens into bankruptcy. Every day, they are getting poorer and more and more difficult every day to reconcile their obligations and the government has no way to explain to citizens except with some flossules, messages, going back to the previous period, what she really wants with this.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17587	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17588	You know very well that both the IMF and the Fiscal Council supported this whole set of fiscal laws, as you well know, when you're looking simultaneously at the whole package, it actually leads to a disbursement of the economy of four billion dinars. It is true that there is an increase in pension insurance contributions by 2% and it is true that the pension fund will have higher incomes by the end of this year and in the next period, but that is a good thing for us, because pensioners will also have greater security. On the other hand, you did not say, and you should be methodologically consistent, to reduce the income tax from 12 to 10% at the same time, and to increase in favour of the economy the untaxable share of the salary from 8,700 to 11,000 dinars, so the simultaneous effect of all these fiscal laws is to relieve the economy of about four billion dinars per year. What's true, too? I just don't want to run from the truth. It is true that the revenues of local self-government will be reduced, but our analyses have shown that local self-government also needs to be handled in such a difficult time by the Republic government, which is to save. So, the Republic government will have to, apart from this package, further reduce expenditure, significantly, and we expect the same from local self-government. Based on this tax package, the Republic will lose an annual income of 5.6 billion dinars, local self-government 20.2 billion dinars, the province of Vojvodina 1.15, while the PIO Fund will receive about 25 billion. The rest is what the economy gets directly. In addition to this, the economy gets a lower burden on the smallest entrepreneurs, because they will be able to account for the first time for their personal salary obligations, which will reduce by one third the total tax expenditure and get these administrative redundancies that it does not have to be paid to a few tenths of the tax and contribution bills, but only to one, so the total disbursement is four billion dinars. We are not running away from the debate and the causes of this situation, which I have shown in the opening statement, which we will also show as the entire government here at the session you asked for on Thursday. We want to, however, go to meet the solutions that are necessary in this situation. All that we've proposed now is necessary in this situation and we wish it hadn't had to come to that, but one part of the cause lies in the legacy. I'm not going to elaborate on that right now, because I really want us to stick to this amendment, but there's going to be an opportunity to talk about it in the next period. What is most important is that all those representing an independent professional body, which is within the domestic framework of the Fiscal Council, in the international IMF. They supported this package of measures, stressing that it was not enough. That's what the DSS MP said. I accepted that. I've been talking all the time -- we're not going to run from the truth, it's important that the government knows how to solve a problem that hasn't just appeared in Serbia. See how many countries have already worked to change their projections. How many countries, including the largest, have already worked on budget rebalancing. That's the weather. It's not the same time as it was 10 years ago. It's not the same as it was in 2004-2006 when I was first minister of finance. It's drastically different. We have to deal with this problem here, as it tries to solve Italy, France, Germany, not to talk about Portugal, Spain and other countries of Europe. We have problems, too, but we have to go with solutions that, first of all, are saving on a public level, encouraging the economy as much as possible, and that would contribute to one national consensus. If it was done, surely the job not only for our government, but for any government facing problems, would be easier. If you want us to go towards that consensus, as Minister of Finance, I stand with my arms open. We need to talk about facts, and the fact is that the economy here is not being burdened, but on the contrary being relieved, as is the fact that it will lose the revenues of local self-government, which will cause them to have to save in relation to the period so far. No one's comfortable with me or local self-government, which we're going to have to do rebalance in the middle of the year. But if the Republic does, I don't see why they can't do that to local self-government. The sooner we realize that the circumstances are not at all the same as they were in the previous period, not only in Serbia, the easier it will be to adapt. I think that a constructiveity is always welcome here, and that's why I don't invite you not to criticise the government, but to criticise with arguments, not with half-truths or falses.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17589	Veroljub Arsic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17590	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first I would like to ask all my colleagues who take part in this discussion, not to defend anyone from discussing the law, but it would be their turn to say all the facts they write in the amendment and supplementing the law on some law, not just a tending part that can be made unpopular to citizens, and all of this for the sake of getting cheap political points, especially when the SNS is mentioned. I'll remind you that from a colleague who spoke as an MP a few minutes ago, the IMF was mentioned. Not SNS, nor did this government drive out the IMF, but the government of Mirko Cvetkovic in February or March 2012. What are you not telling me? Why don't you say so? Furthermore, inflation was discussed when amendments were made to the NBS Act. Where's that inflation? We had the biggest inflation while you were in power. Still, statistically speaking, we are suffering the consequences of this inflation. When the entire cycle of a year of this government is complete, then we can talk about inflation in 2013. Two months ago, inflation in Serbia was 0%, we'll see what it will be like in May. The printing of money -- that's what you've been accusing us of. Did something come out of the money? Just for the exchange of bills. There's no primary show. There is no secondary anymore, as it was during the reign of Mirko Cvetkovic. You know, high interest is also inflation. The jump of the euro. That's what you were talking about. The euro has fallen since this morning if you didn't know. You're probably not informed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17591	Replica, Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17592	When it comes to the part presented by Minister Dinkic in his presentation, we have specifically talked here about an amendment proposing an increase in the rate of contribution from 22% to 24%. Of course DS cannot accept any increase, any rate of tax and contribution of the economy, even if on the other hand, any discharge. There's no explanation, and it's a substitute for the thesis that in this way, in some ways, it's creating an obligation for local self-government to behave economically. How can local self-government behave economically when the state does not behave economically. It's taken from local self-government, from citizens, and the state doesn't want to give up any income dinars. When it comes to cheap political points for Mr. Arsic, the message is that he is the champion of all cheap political points, and there is no match in that sense. She and the greatest defeat can turn into victory. It is not true that the previous government sent the IMF away, but this government after meeting with Minister Dinkic. They closed the files and said – see you another time in a new story. Inflation of this government will be the inflation of the largest, probably in the last decade. Of course, the year is just ahead of us. Well, we can't talk for a whole year, but we can talk for the last month, and instead of 0.4 last month, it was 0.8%, so double that. I wouldn't waste my breath on central bank policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17593	Replica, Veroljub Arsic, we end up with replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17594	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, okay, obviously my colleague has a sense of humor because he's trying to convince everyone else what he doesn't believe himself. I'm just mentioning what all victories are and what defeats the discussion that my colleague had before in this assembly. All the bad things he predicted would happen to the citizens of Serbia, it didn't happen. If you want to just mention April, let's also March, 0.8 plus 0 divided by 2 is 0.4. Can't you count? We'll buy you a digitron, the smallest problem. Wins in defeat. Someone after this speaker said at one point it is not even a shame to lose to Dragan Gilas, but there is no shame in losing to Tomislav Nikolic. When it comes to the IMF, an arrangement with the IMF interrupted the government of Mirko Cvetkovic while he was both Prime Minister and Finance Minister. Once you break something, the conditions are much stricter to continue to co-operate from the beginning than when you had an arrangement, and only because that same prime minister was not allowed to go before this assembly of the Republic of Serbia, he rebalanced because he was afraid of defeating the elections. For several votes in the elections, you let the state out of the Budget Law be in debt in 2012... (President: Time.) ) Because it doesn’t only matter how much the state owes through credit, but also how many liabilities it has and takes and doesn’t carry out, so now this new government has to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17595	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17596	I fully agree with Mr. Arsic, but I would also like to point out the facts about inflation, because it really is wrong to fake anything. But the fact is that inflation slowed significantly, thanks to NBS policy this year, was only 1.9% - January 0.6%, February 0.5%, March 0% and April 0.8%. It is true that international inflation is still relatively high – 11.4% April of this year compared to April last year, but that is primarily because of the base in last year, when all the prices that are under state control are artificially kept low and after the election are all raised and then it is normal that this base is increased. If inflation continues at this pace or slowdown this year, it will return to the framework planned by the Central Bank, from five to six percent annually. I don't want to talk about it, but one of the causes of smaller VAT revenues is even lower inflation in reality than the one that we have provided for the Budget Law. So inflation was actually shot down more and more quickly than we expected when we were planning the budget, so anything that's related to traffic then gives less revenue. I'm not saying it's a good thing someone doesn't get me wrong. We need to find another way to make revenue, but it's good to see inflation shrink. I repeat again -- real inflation this year is what happened from the new year to now, that's only 1.9% per month -- January 0.6%, February 0.5%, March 0% and April 0.8%.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17597	Honorable Members of the People, acting unanimously. 27th and 87th centuries 2nd and 3rd. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of the session as soon as possible. In accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a regular break of one hour. We continue work at 3:10 p.m. National MP Janko Veselinovic has the right to replica when we start working.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17598	We're going back to work. The right to replica has Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17599	Because of MPs who were not in the hall and who do not know what the subject of the replica is, I refer to the discussion of Minister Dinkic and Mr Arsic, head of the SNS parliamentary group. I am not quite sure how Mr. Arsic linked the growth of contributions or the proposal to contribute to 22 will be 24, thus burdening the economy, and all this connects with the brilliant victory of Tomislav Nikolic in the elections. I really don't get it. The only thing I'd ask him to be here in the O.R., to tell me what's wrong with those bags, with the allegedly stolen voices? By all accounts, and then they lied to the citizens. I don't mean him personally, but the ones who kicked those bags out so pompously. When it comes to Mr Dinkic's exposure, I would really see it as a very well-intentioned call to dialogue, to co-operation, to some necessary national compromises, that Minister Dinkic was more open at the beginning of his exhibition and admitted that this government spent eight months in vain, that the number of unemployed was increased by 30,000 this year alone and now we have a figure of about 800,000, rose to 30%, which is the European record, that you said the reforms failed, the citizens are increasingly living... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... They are getting harder and harder to survive – help them. We would really help you then and have an understanding for you. Instead, you have shifted the blame to local self-government, focusing on a local self-government and practically accepting and rejecting some of our well-intentioned amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17600	Thank you. The word has Veroljub Arsic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17601	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my discussion and replica were based on the discussion and the words spoken by my predecessor. I don't know how he connected the agenda to the IMF, I don't know how he connected this topic to inflation, I was just responding to his discussion that might not have been on the subject, but I'm not going to be in on it. I did so for MPs to have a broad way of exposure when it comes to some things. Also, in my replica, I asked my colleague not to alarm the public, to speak only the truth. Unemployment in Serbia is high, but it is far from 30%. When it comes to reform, unfortunately, we are unable to implement the reforms as we would like, because DS left us a country in chaos, in chaos wherever, any area to reach exists. Just remember the Constitutional Court's decision on unselected judges. Just remember the Constitutional Court's decision on unselected prosecutors. Remember only the budget rebalance in September 2012, when we had to charge the state for a billion and 200m euros due to the debts made by DS in the campaign. I don't want to talk about false promises in the campaign of the former president of the Republic of Serbia and former DS president of 200,000 new jobs, so 200 and thousands of people lost their jobs. (President: Time. We can now do the most to eliminate the consequences of an irresponsible, arrogant, and poor government. Don't help us, please. You may have had good intentions once, but all your good intentions were with bad results.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17602	Thank you. He has the word Dr. Janko Veselinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17603	It seemed to me that Mr. Arsic had a good start and that in the next period we would be much more constructive in the debate. He said -- reforms failed, he tried to get closer to reality, and then he came back that DS was to blame for everything, for this government's failure. It won't be, Mr. Arsic, that's true. The fact is, you've taken care of some debt... (President: Please do not address the MP directly. ) Mr Arsic said they have recovered a debt of 1 billion and 200 000 euros, I don't know what money he's talking about, but the fact is that you owe Serbia a record compared to any government in the modern history of the Republic of Serbia for four billion in about eight months. The fact is, in the campaign, you were telling the truth, to be gentle, to promise new jobs, higher employment, lower inflation, bigger profits, and everything else happened. Answer those questions. Answer us, along with Minister Dinkic, what about the new investments? What about Al Dahra? As I recall, Mr Dinkic, last time we discussed a similar subject, I asked you, so you gave, if I may recall that answer, that something was going to happen in June with "Al Dahra," is there going to be a contract or something like that? I'm asking you now - what about this investment that we ultimately supported, so we don't become a remethyling factor? What about the only investment you've ever announced so warmly? I'm asking both you and the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17604	Thank you. Minister Dinkic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17605	First, it's not the only investor who's come in nine months. As for Al Dahra, we signed the contract at the end of March, the deadline for meeting is the end of July, and it will be done so. So the contract will be realised by the end of July at the latest, as scheduled on the signing date. Until then, the repayment of the debts these combineds had should be made, and the money we agreed on by that contract should be laid down, and then the transfer of ownership will be carried out. The end of July is a deadline that hasn't changed or changed, and we're going to try to do it even a little earlier. As far as unemployment is concerned, it's a huge problem. However, an incorrect claim has been made that it has increased by 30,000 since the beginning of the year. It's not much of a comfort, but the exact number is 6,000. But five times you've increased something. Look at the official statistics, 6,000 is a growth in unemployment. For me, that's the problem. But 30,000 is a lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17606	Thank you. Replica, Veroljub Arsic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17607	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, we have now heard one official piece of information, and I will present another official information. According to official data from the Agency for Exporting and Promotion of Foreign Investments in the Republic of Serbia, foreign investments amounted to 330m euros in the first quarter of 2013. I don't know how many it was in 2012, but I don't think there were any. As for the debt that arises, I'll try to be a little picturesque here. Yeah, for example, my DS colleagues inherit something from their parents and when they get there, they find a house and instead of a property that's full of bills that aren't paid, they can choose whether to sell the house and pay the bills, and Serbia isn't for sale, or if it doesn't have their own money, and pay the bills from its parents. God forbid you're our parents. It's all I've done metaphorically. You are the rules we are paying off now, and it is not commendable and commendable, not because you were in charge, not because you were creating obligations, but because you did not know what was done with this money or, to be even more picturesque, under the Public Procurement Act, which was valid until 31 March of this year, public procurement was carried out until 31 March of this year. Savings for the same size of jobs and services are 300m euros. (President: Time. ) Only a few members of the Commission have changed for public procurement and only those who have not changed have feared the Law on Public Procurement and our fight against organised crime and corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17608	Thank you. Since we're away from the subject, and I'm obliged to respect the Rules of Procedure, so I'm interrupting the line on this subject. Is anyone answering for the word after the amendment? Yeah. ) First call is MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17609	I'd like to say something about the amendment and those against those amendments. I'm not surprised by the DS that they're against these sets of amendments and additions to the law for a simple reason. I'm surprised there are other breaks that used to be in power, so they're against and they're giving some other amendments. It does not surprise me, but DS, which has been in power for 12 years in this Serbia, it is the amendment. The consequences of these sets of tax laws or relief laws you've contributed to these and such sets... (President: Mr Toskovic, I am obliged to inform you that we are talking about agenda issues. I'm talking about amendments. I need to connect the reason why these sets of laws were passed that way. Because you haven't done anything right since 2000. You've ruined this country. Our president of the Parliament Club said well – there is something we can do in an empty house. So you've destroyed the state so we can't start bringing it back to normal in ten years. How can you not be ashamed to talk about it?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17610	Please, Mr. Toskovic, first of all, you speak directly. Don't use those words. Another thing, please, let's talk about the agenda. The word has Dr. Janko Veselinović, right on behalf of DS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17611	The replica of Mr. Toskovic, but also the previous discussion. So, the data I provided regarding the number of unemployed, I used the employment service's data. Meanwhile, the director of that service has been replaced, perhaps because of what he's given. When it comes to the Public Procurement Act, that's right, savings have been made because there are no public procurements. That's why there's no medication, no insulin, no anything else. That's why Serbia is rooted. That is why public functions are not being performed and that is why Serbia is stopping. That's why savings were made and it's very easy to make savings – if you don't do anything, you can't spend anything. Ask, Mr. Arsic, but not to speak to Mr. Arsic, here, let all the MPs of their neighbour ask if they live better than they did eight months ago, when this country took office. Well, today I read in the paper that one of your ministers can't pay electricity bills, because there's not enough money. I trust him, and imagine how Serbian citizens pay their bills? How do the citizens of Serbia, with the pay they receive or do not receive, link the end to the end? Don't come back in time and tell lies. You're in charge of four billion, and you haven't returned anything. You've paid back 500 million euros in debt. Not to say the debt was made by Minister Dinkic. Don't change the thesis. Gentlemen, you're in trouble. The whole state is in trouble because of your boastful relationship, for underestimating political opponents and underestimating the situation, and it's known that whoever underestimates the opponent is going through. Get serious. We really have good intentions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17612	Thank you. You received the right to reply to Mr Toskovic's presentation, and you mentioned Mr Arsic. I'll give Mr. Arsic another line. After that, I'm closing the line again because we're way off topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17613	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would not boast that he was now my colleague, because public procurement on medicines and that the Apothecary Institute of Belgrade has not obtained medicines for its citizens is a disgrace. You threatened the health of the citizens not because you couldn't get the drugs, but because the Apothecary Institute didn't want to get them. She had plenty of time to apply the old law, to make enough supplies, and she also had enough time to prepare for the implementation of the Public Procurement Act with the Public Procurement Administration. If it should be a shame to the Apothecary Institute of Belgrade, it should be a shame. He can learn that from the Apothecary Institute in Podgorica. Hey, you guys are so far off and so incompetent. You risk the lives and health of the citizens because of the pharmaceutical mafia. How successful was the government in which you boast, and in 2008 you made it easier for the National Bank for 1,250,000 euros in foreign exchange reserves, in 2010 1,450,000 euros in the National Bank's foreign reserve, in 2012, you facilitated foreign reserves? What the hell are you talking about? Is that surprising? That doesn't suit you? Well, that's official data from your governors, official data from the National Bank, and then you talk about how incompetent we are? Well, who made the living money, what was operational, for nearly four billion? You mention four billion? You've been through four billion fingers and no one knows where they ended up.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17614	Thank you. The People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17615	Madam Chairman, I think you had to warn the previous speaker. You have injured Article 107 because you have allowed it to address the MPs in a very offensive way, and it is indeed humiliating to the National Assembly. The way they spoke to each other and how they spoke to their political opponents while wearing badges and other shirts, we know and we all remember well, and we barely survived together, but it is your responsibility not to let here, in the National Assembly, communicate with the MPs in this way. The balance of eight months of government will be made very simple. The balance of your reign that we found in 2000 is billions of dollars in debt, thousands of refugees, thousands of burned houses. (President: Mrs. Kolundzija, it has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Stick to the reasons for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) This is the result of your rule and we have every right to look forward to the balance after two years.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17616	I believe that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure was injured because the previous speaker responded to the replica of the previous speaker again. I think everyone today is a little bit more under tension, so I'm asking all the MPs of the people to respect our dignity. Would you like to make a statement in the Rules of Procedure's injury vote?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17617	Madam Chairman, I've already had this unpleasant duty to remind you that you have an obligation...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17618	Mrs. Kolundjia, please, and you should know the Rules of Procedure. Tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure I broke.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17619	You have injured Articles 27, 103, 108 and 109 under which you were obliged that the MP who is insultingly expressing himself to another MP should receive a warning. So, you hurt all these members I know perfectly, unlike you obviously. I'd like to ask you not to attribute it to some kind of a temperamental exposure. Let him do it in his own party. In parliament, you must not allow yourself to address other MPs in this way and thus insult the dignity of the institution. We know they ripped up the microphones in the assembly, we know they broke the benches, we know they were rocking everything they could...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17620	Mrs. Kolundjia, I'll listen to you. I won't let you. First, I must take care of the dignity of the National Assembly. Thank you. We're finishing up the replica. We're moving on to the agenda. The word is Mr. Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17621	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 104. The Rules of Procedure have been injured, as has Article 108. Why is no article 110 used? Rules of Procedure? We never broke the benches, it broke the police security that you brought to the Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17622	Mr. Arsic, please stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17623	We'll stick to the Rules of Procedure. I'm just going to say one more thing that the MP is obliged to give the facts and the truth when speaking here in the Assembly. The truth is that if this government had not owed a single dinar to the state of Serbia, the public debt would have grown on the basis of the interest we have yet to pay, which the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic made. You can treat it any way you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17624	Please, let's get back to the agenda. The People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17625	I'd like to refer you again to members who oblige you to conduct this session and how to maintain order. (President: Just tell me which members. ) Articles 108 and 109.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17626	You can't be a member of 108 because he's just been advertised.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17627	In the meantime, you were wrong. You don't understand the Rules of Procedure. If you later hurt the same member, I must warn you. It's not about not being able to call the same member. It's about not calling for the same injury. The moment you turned off my microphone without giving me a warning, one, one, and the other, you took away the word, you can't turn off my microphone. It doesn't stand anywhere in your power. Once again, please let the secretary help you understand the Rules of Procedure and teach him that you know what your obligations are and what the rights of MPs are that you cannot usurp, no matter what you chair this session. You couldn't turn off my microphone. It doesn't say anything in the Rules of Procedure. In the most cruel way, you misused the position of the chairman and insulted parliament with your conduct.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17628	I don't think I've abused the Rules of Procedure and my presidency. If you think otherwise, you have the right to make a statement in the voting day. Would you like to make a statement on the Rules of Procedure in Vote Day?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17629	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17630	Then we'll go to the voter's Day. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17631	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, so much knowledge of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, Article 106(2). - no one can interrupt the speaker or warn him except the president of the National Assembly. Here, as far as you know, the Rules of Procedure you wrote.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17632	You have no right to a replica. You have no right to a replica because this was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[Hope Kolundji, from the place: I have rights to replica.]] We are continuing the debate on the amendment. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17633	Dear Madam Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, in Article 7(1). - deleted, it's an amendment to the DS parliamentary group, because we say the proposed increase in the rate of contribution from 22% to 24% leads to a major burden on the economy at the moment of the major economic crisis. Here we see a rewritten model of economic thinking and political action from the 1990s when these gentlemen who run the country today wore a badge and ran an economy. When there is no money in the state register, you should stick your hand in the pocket of Serbian citizens, there is always money there. The model of behaviour you prescribe from the 1990s will once again be fatal for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia as it ended in the 1990s. You cannot burden Serbia's citizens with the burdens. It's a bad economic policy, it doesn't lead to an exit from the crisis. So you did the same last time, you went violently, arrogantly, violently, confident of your power, confident that you would not know what you would do well for the citizens of Serbia, and it ended with a total fiasco. After such a government in 2000, we did not inherit the state administration from our parents, but from you. There is Mr Dinkic, please remind us how much together we are responsible for the myths, how many pensions did those with the badge remain in debt to the citizens of Serbia, how many children's supplements, how many billion euros, how many million, trillion marks, francs, dollars you sucked out of this country, and how many thousands of human lives have you pushed underground? That's the main question. How this economy is being run today is the same way you went in 2000, 1999, 1998. Whenever you have no answer to the question of how to solve the crisis -- to stick your hand in the pocket of Serbian citizens, to sell whatever, whether the Pećka Patriarchy, whether the Decans, whether it is Kosovo and Metohija, does not matter. It's important that the privatisation lasts. (Vučeta Toskovic, from the place: Amendment. The amendment, which I say deletes this gentleman you're throwing away, since you didn't know what law it was before. Here's to tell you, it's not about sets, it's about the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Security. At least read the agenda when you engage in the discussion, so you know, not because of you, but because of the citizens. It'd be my turn. Now I'm asking you, when we inherited the state administration in 2000, I asked that the minister tell us how many pensions are left to owe, how many child benefits? Did you inherit that government as your fatherland? Was the Roast Patriarchy your grandfather? Don't talk like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17634	Mr. Milivojevic, you've wasted your time with the MPs' group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17635	I've spoken according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17636	You are not an amendment promoter, Mr. Veselinovic spoke about the amendment and used a time of two minutes. You spoke according to the amendment, but your parliamentary group is out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17637	Mr. Janko Veselinovic spoke as an authorised representative, and I spoke as an applicant for the amendment for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17638	Do you understand me, Mr. Millyvoy? In accordance with the Rules of Procedure we apply, you have a certain period of time for your parliamentary group. It totals 55 minutes and 48 seconds and it's exhausted. That's what I wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17639	I thank you, but you could have told me that in two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17640	Minister Dinkic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17641	You didn't tell the truth, because we're discharging the economy from these laws. I've said this before, but I'll do it one more time, because obviously there are some things you don't want to hear. I don't believe you haven't heard, but you don't want to hear it. In fact, the reduction in the burden of the economy due to a reduction in the income tax from 12% to 10% and an increase in the non-taxable share of profits from 8,700 to 11,000 dinars is greater than on the other hand the effect of increasing the contribution from 22% to 24% and the total growth rate alone is one billion and 700 million dinars per year. When other charges are counted that these package laws bring, the economy will pay four billion dinars less than it pays today. One more thing, pensions are paid in Serbia in time. They'll pay in the future on time. What we need is to see how and what measures to reduce both the public debt and the budget deficit, which is also the result of an unfavourable economic environment, I am also talking about developments in the eurozone, but also a great legacy by the previous government. I think Mr. Arsic was perhaps a little too sophisticated when he set an example with the legacy of the house. Perhaps it would be even easier to say – you were at the bar, you made an account and you didn't pay. There are new guests who are now paying that bill that you left behind. It's not a small account. This is a public debt growth of nine billion euros for the previous four years. It is only in two state banks worth 600m euros, and in three banks 620m euros. Everything that's been done like this has to be paid. We're the ones who have to find a way to solve this. It couldn't have simply been erased with a rubber, although I wish it were possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17642	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17643	I have to tell you, I don't blame you, the advances brought you here as a clay pigeon to shoot you. Of course, that's what we've come to see. It's not you who create an economic disaster in this country, as much as the real SNS. Of the 100 billion promised investments in the election campaign, there are 100 billion soap balloons left, each firing, and the pocket of Serbian citizens is getting thinner every day. There is no alchemy, no mathematics, no metaphysics, no politics and philosophy, or any discipline that can convince citizens and convince Serbian citizens to live better. With SNS, I can really see that I'm taking care of the citizens of Serbia. They worry that citizens of Serbia are accidentally not starting to live well, and in this care they are very zealous, as well as in 2000. They have the right to express that concern in this way, but we have the right to oppose that care. When it comes to lunch at the pub, you know, they had lunch once at the bar of justice and injustice and justice says injustice. How do we pay, we have no money? The injustice says, "Let me go." That's my problem. Then comes the waiter to charge, and the injustice jumps on the waiter, and he says, "No matter what lunch you're having, shame on you, sees how dirty your bar is, sees what your plates are like, hits that waiter and goes away and doesn't pay." Then the proud waiter cried out: "Where is justice?" Justice says, "I'm here, but I've had lunch." We didn't have lunch alone at that bar.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17644	The peoples of MP Veroljub Arsic, a replica of Mr Milivojevic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17645	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must confess to the previous speaker that something is right, at least his first words -- no alchemy, metaphysics, and I will add a magic wand that can solve the problems of Serbian citizens overnight, and the problems have arisen under DS. I didn't make any SNS joint daily newspaper with Mr. Miskovic, but the president of DS Dragan Gilas. I didn't go to those lunches, he did. It wasn't me who hung out with him, it was Dragan Gilas hanging out with him. None of us were in Agrobanka except representatives of the DS and close friends of former Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic. Someone ate 450m euros in Agrobanka from the DS. Shall we talk about the Vojvodine Development Bank? Who was there for lunch and who was supposed to pay? They pay for the citizens of Serbia, but one boast, one irresponsibility, one conduct as if the government were immeasurable, as if you would never leave the government. Now I understand why you ran such a negative campaign against Mr. Nikolic. You were afraid to lose power, not because of power, but because of what awaits you after you lose power. You can be sure of one thing, as long as the last criminal who pushed his hands into the pockets of Serbian citizens is not where he belongs, we will not calm down and we will not stop fighting corruption. (President: Time. Now, if you'll excuse me, gentlemen, for having the most of yours, I really have nothing to do with it, even the native brothers of senior DS officials.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17646	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17647	The first two words about Mr Dinkic's comment, or illustration, when he was making an illusion that Serbia was a pub, so we drank, went out and didn't pay the bill. Mr. Dinkic, you were the only one who hadn't been out of that pub in 12 years. Some of them went in and out, but you stayed at the bar and didn't pay the bill. Some of them paid their bills, and you didn't. On the other hand, I'm not sure, Mr. Arsic, if you're well informed. I think Mr Nikolic has promised Mr Miskovic he will not be arrested, because they probably had some contacts before that, not President Tadic. You're the one who got something fat mixed up. On the other hand, there are a lot more people in the Agrobanks, the Galenici, who are much closer to this regime now than the previous. That's where we could say there's no DS people. A few days you're talking about Agrobank and Galenika. Who's there from the DS, who's there from senior executives and close to senior DS executives? Look around you by the benches and some other parliamentary groups. Look who you're in the coalition with. There may not be an understanding with them. Leave the DS. (President: Time. The greatest things you say these days, mentioning DS, are not true. It has nothing to do with DS. You're trying to make a media story like that. Unfortunately, you have a lot of media that are obedient to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17648	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17649	I've heard that people dream of sleeping, but some dream while they're awake. Now I've seen it. I didn't mention Galenika. The man dreamed, also dreamed of Mr. Nikolic's promise to Miskovic. But I didn't dream of Ces Mekon and Nikezic, a very close friend of Mirko Cvetkovic, a consultant. It seems to me that they're also in an affair related to the Azotara, and there I heard that some four billion dinars have disappeared. Sasha Dragin, whose minister was that? Dulic, whose minister was he? Whose own brother was Elezovic? What are you talking about? You didn't take the citizens' hands out of your pockets, you took wherever you came from. When all the affairs are revealed, you'll have a problem. You five percent won't even jump on a pole jump.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17650	Thank you. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17651	Mr. Arsic, or gentlemen of the DS, I told you not to underestimate your opponent because it is usually the beginning of your destruction and of the one who underestimates your opponent. I'm not quite sure what kind of contacts you're talking about with DS and what kind of illusions you have on DS. No one's guilty until you prove yourself otherwise. You very often ignore that premise. Judge people in advance, first through the media, then through your listeners in various services. You have destroyed the institutions of this country. You've destroyed the prosecution, you're destroying the judiciary. You've turned your political party into a dictator who gives orders and who will be and when will be and how much will be convicted. You're bringing us back in time from the '90s. You're threatening. You know. Are you a judge or are you a prosecutor? Who gave you the documentation from which you know how many of our officials will be convicted and how many will be convicted and how much will we census and when will we cross? I think you've crossed the line of good taste in your political performance, called - destroying everything he says, everything he thinks. Citizens see how they live with you. Is that why they blame Ces Mecon or someone you're talking about? I've never seen that man in a party. Maybe you are in yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17652	The word is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17653	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I confess that whatever my colleague said is absolutely right. Except he lives in a time machine from 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012. Everything he said happened back then. Right then. That's when the prosecutors called the minister and asked if they were allowed to arrest anyone. That's when the judges called for a verdict. We didn't reform the judiciary, they did. Get out of that time machine. Once the current president of Serbia told the former -- Mr Tadic, you live in the past, you are a man of the past, turn to the future. So do you. You still live in that part, that whatever you did, someone else did it to you, even to that end. One more thing. When it comes to crime and corruption and when it comes to evidence, they are not brought to justice -- a matter of testimony that can be subjective or objective, but based on the material evidence that exists wherever you turn, so it gives me the right to doubt that those I have listed will not be sentenced to prison sentences.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17654	Thank you. We're breaking up the line. Mr. Palalic, on what grounds are you answering? It's a business thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17655	Article 27. Please, Madam Chairman, take this session back to normal. You know what, we've been here for hours hearing debates about who ruined the citizens more. We can discuss which government, by its own means, has led citizens into this situation to live this hard. We've been putting up with each other here for hours, waiting for the amendment debate to begin. Does that make sense? You put up with it and you watch and you let go of it. So you're releasing a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It doesn't seem worth being polite here and respecting the Rules of Procedure and discussing the amendments. Please stop this debate and return the discussion to amendments. There are many amendments that we want to discuss and deal with these problems that will be created for citizens and these provisions that expect them to adopt these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17656	Thank you. I'll listen to you, Mr. Palalic. National MP Marijan Rističević submitted to the 7th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Ranka Savic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Stepic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Vesna Stepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17657	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is the essence of the amendment that I have submitted to Article 10. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance is that farmers should not be subject to a legal obligation to pay their own contributions to agricultural income. This package of tax laws, in particular the Law on Income Tax, changes the position of farmers, so that incomes from agriculture and forestry are no longer considered as income of citizens, but income from self-employedness. In accordance with this definition, solutions for self-taxation and self-calculation of contributions have been proposed, as proposed in Article 10 of this proposal. I do not think that a farmer should be burdened with an additional obligation to self-calculate taxes and tax contributions. There's a lot of reasons for that. The first and most important thing is that for this government agriculture is one of the strategic branches and that in each form it needs to be supported, not additionally burdened. The everyday reality tells us so. The facts suggest that the majority of the agricultural population is older and it is very difficult to expect them to make their own contributions. Of course, the bookkeeper’s engagement requires additional resources that farmers often do not have, or are necessary to carry out agricultural production. At the same time, such a legal provision would certainly affect the fact that many of them no longer report their agricultural holdings, or log out, in order to avoid further imposition, which will certainly affect the reduction of inflows in the budget. It is therefore most appropriate that the tax authority, on the basis of its declared income, calculates the contributions and makes a solution in which the farmer settles his obligation. I believe that this is the best solution because the tax administration is the most professional and efficient, both because of the capacity and the training of people. At the same time, potential accounting problems by farmers would also be avoided and would not be burdened by an additional and complicated administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17658	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic together submitted to the 14th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17659	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. In line with the current discussion of representatives of the DSS parliamentary group, under this law, we thought it should be added in article 14 "unless the legal person's accounts are blocked". It's certainly a technical matter, but we think the laws need to be synchronised, to be complementary and to define in every law all the necessary elements so that nothing remains unsaid. In this explanation, I can see that you didn't think this should be included. However, Article 72 of the existing law does indeed refer to criminal provisions. In any case, since this is, I suppose, the last amendment to this law, I would just like to say that it is very important that we take the general account not only of the republican budget but also of the budgets of local self-government. I would go back to what really encouraged me, which is that by stimulating the economy until the budget is filled, what the minister said is a great thing, and that's how it should be. But now we come to that—is it older coke or egg? In any case, we have to make it possible for the economy to move on. We can make that happen if, for example, we can. Some investors come to some local self-government and if they have a certain and regulated system in that local self-government, if they have a quality infrastructure, these investors will certainly stay there and invest, develop production, create new jobs and get young people back to that local self-government. However, if local self-governments do not have their own resources, of course we will not have the opportunity to keep these investors and send them an indirect message – do not come to us. It's a great honor that the Ministry provides support for certain local self-governments, but they need some space to develop themselves, attract investors themselves, and I can do that if they have at least some of their own resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17660	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the next item of the agenda, it is a search in detail on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. You have received amendments submitted by the National MPs Borislav Stefanović, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Čomić, Natasa Vučković, Gorica Mojović, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Srdjan Milivojević, Mr Vladimir Ilic, Zoran Bojanić, Judjta Popović, Kenan Hajdarević, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Mićić, Ivan Andrić, Bojan Bojan Gajić, Zoran Ostojić, Bojan Kostreš, Bojan Kostreš, Djordrđe Stojšić, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik, Dragan Andrić, Zoran Kašić, Bojan Bojan Bojan Božanić, Gorica Gajić, Dusan Petrović, Mišan Petrović, Miod Petrović, Miod Žalić, Miljadić, Miljadić and Zadić. National MP Zoran Kasalovic, written on 27 May 2013, withdrew the amendment to Article 37. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vučković, Gorica Mojović, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17661	I refer to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and to the provisions of Article 164. The Rules of Procedure, where the legislator or the authorised representative of the legislator and the committee in charge are considering amendments submitted to the draft law and proposing to the National Assembly which amends it to accept and to reject. First, I ask the question – is the proposing officer still Mr. Mladjan Dinkic? Does the amendment's proposal defend the personal position or the government's proposal to know if we're going to discuss what we have on the other hand? We have been informed in writing that on the subject of certain amendments, the Government has taken a certain position, in order to later learn indirectly that the Committee for Finance, chaired by the chairman-in-Office, Mrs Kovac, as president of the Committee, represented on that Committee a personal position rather than a position agreed at the level of the Government. I don't know if Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. First Vice President know that there is an obvious difference in the representation of the government's position on the Committee compared to what was agreed at the cabinet's session. That's why it's unclear whether we have a government official here or if we only have a minister representing his position, who, as such, figure out how to take the government's position. That's the first question.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17662	Time. That's not a question. It's a done breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you, Mr. Mikovic. I find it clear to you that no injured article 164. Rules of Procedure. What I've hurt here, it's not clear to me, I guess, to you either. Mr. Mikovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17663	There's a lot of things that are hurt.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17664	Mr. Mikovic, you've reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Tell me which member I injured in the meantime.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17665	I have to point out in the meantime, because I can't make it in two minutes to tell you what all the injuries to the Rules of Procedure have been done...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17666	I'm so sorry you can't make it in two minutes. The Rules of Procedure say you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17667	... and 74.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17668	I'm sorry, I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17669	If you didn't interrupt me, I'd get to it. In any case, with regard to all that preceded this session, plenary, which is working on committees, and you as the person chairing the assembly, the president and the person replacing the president, should make sure that absolutely what precedes the plenary session is done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I don't mind this moment for you...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17670	Mr. Mikovic, I will remind you that the chairman can only harm the Rules of Procedure at the assembly session. Don't abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'll give you a notice according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17671	That's what I'm saying. I do not object to what has been done as president of the Committee, but in terms of what is the responsibility of the Chair of the Assembly, and the chairman of the Assembly should know and keep an eye on whether everything has been done in preparation for the meeting in the Rules of Procedure. I hope that the president of the Assembly and the chairman of the Assembly asked the chairman of the Finance Committee – did the chairman of the Finance Committee invite all MPs who proposed amendments to this draft law. (President: Time. You interrupted me. You took at least 20 seconds away from me. In that case, the chairman of the Finance Committee, Mrs Kovac, would have informed Vice-President Mrs Kovac if she hadn't invited MP Srdjan Mikovic to explain his amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17672	Now, as chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the chairman of these sessions will answer your question. I really still don't understand why I violated the Rules of Procedure, I don't see any connection to what you were talking about with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Maybe I don't understand it well, but I can't see it. The session was prepared in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And the meeting of the committee and the meeting of the assembly. If you don't think so, you have the right to ask that in the day of the vote, we say so. Do you want to make a statement in the voting day? You're not looking, but it's not prepared. Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? National MP Ljuban Panic. Mr. Panic, your task force has no time. I can't give you my word. I'm sorry. You're the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17673	I accept your apology. Is it Article 2? Respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, citizens and citizens of Serbia, the intention and this amendment of the DS is that, through its eventual adoption, something treated as income, and regarding the immovable income tax, belonging to local self-government, by moving into capital revenues, or capital income taxes, belongs to the Republic. Our intention is to leave two billion dinars in the register of local self-government. It is also surprising that this legal solution, given the fact that if the information I had as a national MP was being prepared for the session, that local self-government, regardless of who made a surplus of 11 billion dinars in power, and that the deficit of the republican budget was 87 billion dinars. It is surprising that the RS government is trying to take money by dragging its hands into the citizens' pocket for the budget crisis, economically of the country's only successful, and also taking this revenue that may not be as large as income based on a reduction in the income tax that will reduce the inflow by 20% to local self-government. But it raises one question to all of us, taking into account the prime minister's statements today, and they're a little contradictory compared to what the minister here said yesterday, that there will be no freezing wages, pensions, etc. It is a big question for all of us here, and by accepting this amendment, we might send a good signal that and how do we get out of this, following the optimistic forecast that the budget will be fully realised, that we will have 10 billion euros in investment for this year alone. The fact is, you take from the only ones who have a surplus, and that way you won't get 87 billion deficits. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17674	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) People's MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic together submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic together submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Mr Vladimir Ilic has submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 5th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran M. Bojanic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 6th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic together submitted to the 7th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic together submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanović and Gordana Comić and joint MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andrić, Bojan Djuric and Zoran Ostojić together submitted to the 11th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17675	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are discussing these six tax laws on the third day, and one thing has been used. These tax laws do not represent a hundred of what should be done to make a more significant change in the Serbian economy. So these are tax laws that support both the IMF and support the Fiscal Council. You, Mr. Minister, are talking about certain benefits for the economy if it spills from hollow to empty, if you on the one hand reduce the income tax, or increase the income tax and reduce the contribution to pension-involvement insurance. You say it represents one balance and it will bring about a billion and 700 million benefits to the Serbian economy. However, Mr. Minister, you have literally brought a hot chestnut upon the burden of local self-government because, if these laws add and amend and supplement the Property Act, it is very clear who will actually bear the greatest burden of this kind of balance, take-off economic policy. However, as you have actually transferred the greatest burden to local self-government and to citizens, in the same way, your fellow government and the entire government have transferred to you the burden and the hot potatoes into your hands that you in this House represent everything that is supposed to be good and everything that is actually something, and in fact nothing, in terms of reforming economic policy and in general everything about the economy and economy in Serbia. So you're the one who's supposed to carry the burden, to explain to the Serbian citizens what it means when the prime minister comes out and today he's just saying that it's not in the government's plan to limit pensions and wages, that it's not in the government's plan to freeze pensions and salaries in the public sector, which is, in fact, a good economic policy that should be run today, in these conditions in Serbia. So, when we are discussing this amendment that is very similar to that of the next Article 12, because we are actually proposing to delete these members that you have proposed by law, let's not lie to citizens, let's clear out and say – without serious reforms, structural reforms, there is no improvement in life in Serbia. And that's clear. You know very well that if we are discussing tax laws, we cannot exclude these tax laws from real life, and real life is such that it is no longer enough to just change tax policies.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17676	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić together submitted to the 11th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17677	When we discussed a set of tax laws last September, I remember that the minister replied that we now have the 80 per cent income tax that is being poured into local budgets and that, in fact, all these responsibilities and all the new rights and new obligations that come to local self-government can be compensated from that income tax. I said it was some kind of magic tax that probably has to be multipliered multiple times so that we in local self-government could do something to realize some of the new obligations we impose. As you know, it seems to me at the end of last year, we also passed a law that says that local self-governments if they think they need to hire some new doctors or other medical staff, they can do it, but, of course, they pay it out of their budget. If they want to develop further, they have to pay out of their budget, and in doing so, for example, we have reduced the human resources for these health institutions to a minimum. If you want to have quality police protection, that you don't have two, three officers in just one local self-government, as it follows you according to the number of inhabitants, regardless of how many people there are in some local self-government during the year, you also have to manage yourself, to provide additional funds for construction, reconstruction of these facilities, as in many municipalities. How, for example, is it going to work, or how much profit tax is it going to be in Novi Varosha, Baja Basta, Priboj, Sjenica or Prijepolje if there is virtually nothing to do and if bad privatisation has led to the sun of the economy? So we need to help local self-governments and help them make their own efforts and get to these investors, get them to come and they can invest there, but, again, they can't if local self-government doesn't have their own resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17678	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Kasalovic submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanović, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vučković, Gorica Mojović, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojevic and together Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Mićić, Ivan Andrić, Bojan Đurić and Zoran Ostojić together. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I've got two reports of a word from the DS. So one can use the right word. You guys make a deal on who's going to do it. Not every minute, the Rules of Procedure don't allow that possibility. You guys make a deal on who's going to do it. In the meantime, the word is Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17679	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, the government's unpreparedness to face a crisis in the economic model of ideas and competence is very clear. You can't do it by reducing taxes on earnings to allow investors to invest directly in local self-government, to invest in Serbia's economy at all. That's not enough. Investors demand far more than that, far more than tax relief. Investors seek one security, seek one predictability of their investments, seek the safety of a legally regulated society and state. That's the security they don't find here. In March, the Fiscal Council came out with data that the deficit is approximately 4.5%. So he's already been more than you've been projecting for the whole year, and it was only March. In May of the month, the Fiscal Council is of the opinion that the deficit is approximately 5.5%. So it's about one constant growth deficit. By the end of the year, some 85 billion dinars are expected to lack the revenue side of the budget. So these are very good indicators of the state of the economy and whether there are reasons for some optimism, even for false optimism. Apparently he's not here. The expenditures are increasing and will certainly be much greater than what you expected. The expenditure is forecasted for "Smederevo Iron" even though you did not calculate it into the budget. The expenditure is forecasted for RTS subscription, and you didn't see that coming either. Here, you and these energy social cards, and it's going to increase those huge costs that the budget has. So how do you think, Mr. Minister, that you can change something more important in our lives in our standards? Do you really believe that these tax laws are going to move things from this zero point where everything about economic activity is at present. You said there wouldn't be a budget rebalance, so now we're hearing a creature soon, maybe June or July of the month. You went out with one way to solve property taxes, so suddenly we found ourselves with a whole other concept when we're talking about the property tax of citizens and legal entities. So, a lot of things you've been saying, Mr. Minister, and something's changed here. It's really good that you've become much more flexible than you used to be, but that flexibility somehow doesn't go in favor of that job you're dealing with, which is primarily the creation of economic policy and fiscal policy in the country. However, Mr. Minister, we still think that you are the direct enforcer of everything that is actually designed in the government and at the level of the government. Unfortunately, you came here to defend and represent these laws. It would be good to have all these others in the government who and how they are aware of how great a burden it is when it comes to the economic rebirth of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17680	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17681	I agree with you that it's a huge burden and it's not a bit easy to solve this situation. However, what you have now suggested by the amendment if it were to be looked at in isolation, it would mean that if we gave up the 12% salary tax reduction, which you said was deleted, and if that provision remained in the contribution law, it would mean that we would fill the budget and that from a narrow angle of observation would be good for the public register, but it would be a burden on the economy. So, the effect of a complete package of tax laws is that we will have a savings of 12 billion dinars by the end of the year, or 20 billion on an annual basis based on a smaller transfer that we will make to the pension fund, because they will have higher incomes due to the change in contributions, and that is the net effect because we will lose because of the reduction in income tax as they will, above all, lose in the revenues of local self-government. However, it is a necessary step at this point because we have to reduce the deficit and we have to in some way evenly distribute the costs of this deficit reduction across the public sector without touching the economy that is actually the hardest. Without economy, we can't, neither of us can get away with it, nor the local self-government, nor the Republic, the public sector has any chance if the economy doesn't start, and the economy primarily makes up the private sector. In that sense, we are fully aware that these are insufficient measures and only initial measures. We are also supported by the Fiscal Council and the IMF, along the fence that this is not enough. I'm fully aware of that. The fact that these days we hear different statements, different party representatives on the subject of future measures, not those that we are discussing here today, but the future ones, is natural. Because it's not easy to find the right solution when I don't have a lot of good moves ahead of you. So, what I can assure you is that we are fully aware of the situation, but unfortunately, and the narrowed-down maneuvering space we have. So we don't have a lot of ammo to fix things, I say it openly. The only source of fixing things is rigidity in the public sector. Everything about the public sector, it's the only thing that can do, and it has to be reformed because there's no space, I agree with whatever I'm saying, and I mean there's no room for further increases in this tax, there's no room. We have quite high and now the share of budget revenues, i.e. in total public spending. But the problem is public spending, not public revenues. So public spending is something that will have to be reduced and there we will have to be very balanced because it is not the same situation in education and in public enterprises. When we say that the public sector has a third higher salary, it is primarily because of the higher average in public enterprises, for example, in the first place, then in the administration, including the republican and regional and local, and it is not such a situation in education. It's not like that in health care when you look at the average salary. So that's where he'll have to balance himself. The strongest measures will have to go towards those who have the greatest room for savings, and above all those who are now making losses, and perhaps they wouldn't have to make them. In some situations, we're going to suggest that the state gets out of system management. If it's been shown for years who knows why she's not capable of running some loss-making systems, then it should be left to the private sector or not always to sell property can be given to management. So management if the one who manages is going to make the win. It can get a long-term concession for managing some not only public goods, but a whole public enterprise. So, we are waiting here together in parliament for a serious debate on how to make moves and all well-meaning and criticism but even more proposals will be more than welcome. From your MP group that I think is very constructive, I expect.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17682	Thank you. Judita Popovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17683	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, I will only be brief, so it is clear that reforms must be made in the public sector and that is a priority and there is nothing different than that if you really want to do something serious. In this context, when we talk about this reform, why do such contradictory things happen? So, Prime Minister, the Prime Minister is going out with some finding that is really in the diametric opposite of what you're saying and what you're up for. So, the prime minister is clear that it is not the government's plan to freeze salaries and pensions. I think you were just talking about how important it is for the public sector to be reformed. One way is to bring the first measure to freeze wages and pensions, and if necessary, we may also get into that situation to reduce them. Because if it doesn't start today with some serious reform moves, tomorrow it's going to be a hell of a lot harder than it is today. In fact, it happens all the time in Serbia, we're missing some steps and it's getting harder and harder every time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17684	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17685	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, this amendment is just one in a set of amendments that my colleagues and colleagues from the Democratic Party and I have submitted to a set of tax laws, trying to at least fix these laws that are disastrous, above all, for all citizens of Serbia, and then for local self-government. Exactly, this amendment refers to the removal of Article 12 which reduces the tax rate on earnings from 12 to 10. This is seemingly favourable for employers, however, when it comes to proposing at the same time an increase in pension insurance contributions, on which we have also put the amendment, it is seen that employers are not actually disbursed. This only damages local self-governments, as they reduce their total incomes and thus prevent local self-governments from taking care of what they are responsible for taking care of schools, kindergartens, social benefits on their territory that are necessary for certain categories of citizens, then creating conditions, as regards municipal infrastructure for attracting investors and creating new jobs. Many local self-governments have invested a lot in job creation, counting on higher incomes from the profit tax. This reduces their incomes. We have concluded that the aim of this was to increase the contribution to pension insurance, thereby providing additional revenue to the Pension Fund, in order to relieve the republican budget and reduce issuances to the Pension Insurance Fund. I just have to finally realize that we're really surprised by the ministers that you're proposing a change like this, when you've always advocated the development of local self-government and decentralisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17686	Thank you. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Miodrag Djidic, Sanja Cekovic, Milovan Markovic, Bosko Ristic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Miodrag Djidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17687	I've come forward under the previous amendment, and I'd like to talk about the previous amendment, and I wouldn't be talking about this one. Dear Minister, you were not the last time I debated in principle and I must say that the MP group for Serbia will support the amendment of colleagues from the Democratic Party and the Liberal Democratic Party and we believe that this position should be deleted, that local self-government should not take what was given them a year, two days ago. This reduction will absolutely, reduce the income tax, absolutely hit the local self-government, and only on the Kruševec case, where I come from, to tell you that the loss will be between 250 million and 300 million dinars, which means that the citizens of Kruševec will not be able to get what they are promised with budgeting for this year, there will be fewer roads, there will be less waterways built and other infrastructure works, because simply 300 million dinars taken in this way will not be compensated from property taxes, because simply people in that area are absolutely exhausted, there is no money, the economy does not work best and people, despite the wishes and will to pay taxes, will not be able to pay it, so I say citizens will be denied for what they absolutely belong to them. Last time in the principle debate, I said, you weren't there, so I'll repeat, I think there are other ways to reduce the deficit, one of those ways is to save a little more, I hope you have the political courage to reduce the amounts that belong to the various ministries, to save them, and that local self-governments can develop. The other way, you said about it yourself, is that at this point in Serbia, there is indeed a huge financial indiscipline and what has made Serbia's cities equal with Belgrade, is that neither one of them is issuing fiscal accounts in many cafes either inside or in Belgrade, when you drink coffee you won't get a fiscal bill and there must be more discipline, that people are paying the state what they are obliged to do. The third way is to reduce the grey economy that is really booming today, you can find it in the markets in Serbia today, as the people would say from needle to locomotive, which means that the goods are coming by some magical means, i.e., I can freely say that Serbia's borders, unfortunately, have become ugly and that there must be more to be done in control. This way everyone loses. It loses the state because it does not collect customs and taxes, it loses small entrepreneurs who cannot resist unfair competition, because the goods that arrive in that way are much cheaper, people are hard to live and, of course, buy what is more favourable to them. So, the gray economy has to stop, and that's one of the tasks that's waiting for you. I know it's not easy at all, and I know it's a big problem, but that's why you're the minister, you have to deal with it in the next period. So I think that, I know it's impossible now, but for the sake of the citizens, I have to say that you try to leave it to local self-government or otherwise to make up for this money, because now they're going to have to do budget rebalances and what they promised citizens, they simply won't be able to meet it, and that's not even good at all. So try to work this out, and I'm saying that with these three ways you can save a lot of money and that local self-government stays at the level they've been at so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17688	Thank you. Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17689	Here, let me just answer what you just said. First, the Republic will reduce the deficit by 12 billion dinars through a reduced transfer to the Pension Fund by amending these laws. That's not enough and we've already suggested that all republican ministries reduce their expenditures by an additional 20 billion, which should be seen in the rebalancing. The question is, will the 32 billion dinars we have proposed in these two ways be enough? What's a fact is that two years ago when the proportion to my proposal was changed in favour of local self-government and it became 80:20 in the distribution of income tax, 45 billion dinars were effectively transferred to local self-government. Now at the annual level of local self-government based on a reduction in the profit tax rate, if we're statically looking at the losses of 20. So there is a net positive effect of these 25 billion compared to the period before the law. What else is more important? That's true if you watch short notice and I don't want to say anything here at all that's not true. In the medium term, however, a lower rate of income tax with a retained interest of 80% in the distribution of cities and municipalities in the scenario that we all manage to increase gross domestic product together, will return revenues to local self-government. So we haven't changed the proportions of 80% of the profit tax still remains for cities and municipalities, but the fact is that in the conditions of the crisis, in the terms of this scenario that we're going to have in this year, it's going to mean a couple of revenues to local self-government. Why do I think that local self-government, although it is the same fact that it will be from case to case, as we will have to do in the Republic to overcome it, will be able to overcome it from the fact that in the first four months some surplus of 8.3 billion dinars in the accounts of local self-government and that there are another 17 billion dinars held by local self-governments in bank accounts. What do I mean? I mean, this isn't gonna be good news for those who run local self-government, but they're gonna have to be able to get along in conditions when the Republic has to do the same. So we're all in the same state and we have to sort of share the burden, if it were some measure that could replace this, I'd be the first one to replace it. But the truth is, this measure won't be enough and we need to find a lot more than this.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17690	Thank you. Miodrag Djidic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17691	I absolutely understood what you said, but it's true that you suggested it and that it's reduced now, but you know, there's a saying in the people, "I hope you did, so I didn't." Now, that's what we've done with local self-government. I remind you, they've calculated that money, they'll have problems. Try to make up for it, I know everyone has to bear the burden of not having to, but let's not transfer everything to local self-government, especially if I think local self-governments that are the poorest will again bear the greatest burden. For them, one dinar is much bigger than 100 dinars for Belgrade. Since you, like us, advocate decentralisation, think about it. Today I spoke and spoke again, we must help people in southern and eastern Belgrade to overcome the crisis. They've been hit more by the crisis than by anyone else. If we don't, we'll have a population in Belgrade, we'll be emptying Serbia and we'll all be in big trouble. So, try at least those, if you can't, and I can understand that you can't help everyone right now, but try to help those who need help right now, and these are small local self-governments in the south and east of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17692	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17693	You're wrong about that, because we're not actually going to cut transfers, and unfortunately the poorest municipalities, the most dependent on the transfer from the republican budget. This is actually going to hit the biggest cities, that's a fact. So there's going to be the biggest drop in income, not in these municipalities that you've talked about, because in these municipalities the share in incomes from income tax is the smallest. I'm talking about local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17694	Thank you. The word is Mr. Djidic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17695	Short. I don't think we understand each other. It's true everything you said, you just didn't understand me when I said that one dinar for the Shop was much more than a thousand dinars for a bigger city, not to mention which. So, and one dollar when you take the one who doesn't, that's a lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17696	Thank you. Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, together Jovan Palalić, Dejan Mihajlov, Milos Aligrudić and Miroslav Petkovic, together Dusan Petrovic, Miodrag Djidić, Sanja Cekovic, Milovan Marković, Boško Ristic and Nebojsa Zelenović and together Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Mićić, Ivan Andrić, Bojan Đurić and Zoran Ostojić, submitted to the 23rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17697	Minister, what do you want with this, seriously? So here you have an idea to exempt certain entrepreneurs, including doctors, dentists and lawyers, from the flat tax. Is this about financial discipline in the state or is it about money for the state budget? Because of this first one, I don't know, but the second one certainly isn't, because it's very easy to prove to you no matter what anyone can and can prove to him that you're going to decimate, destroy these entrepreneurs and these professions. Then who are you going to charge your taxes from? How do you plan to do that? Here, let's say, lawyers are contributing somewhere with about 0.3% of the total tax revenue so far. Maybe 15 offices in Serbia, people who run them live well, great, have money. Others do their job by earning an average employee in the state, and these people pay taxes. So, with this regulation, you're going to drive them to the Bureau of Labour, you're going to earn a lot less than this 0.3% in the state budget, and then we're asking you what money you're going to pay them what the Bureau owes to pay people who don't have a job, that's what I'm asking you? Let me ask you a few more things, how is it possible, that you have certainly seen other quality proposals, although you have not given us a chance for any public debate, because you went with this obstinately, with this law, how is it possible not to predict that the taxpayer, if defined for keeping business books and not paying taxes at a flat rate, should you give people a chance to choose, if nothing else, it would be in line with some standards in Europe, how is it possible that we do not have clear provisions on the recognition of absolutely all costs in these professions? Let's just say, why can't it be recognised that the employees of the entrepreneurs earn money, the costs of renting a business space, the car that was necessary for a lawyer to come from one place to another, to go to court, etc. Let's do this, if you do all that, another thing, how is it possible for the state to react in this way and try to collect taxes in this way, including a flat tax, when that same state owes billions to lawyers for official defenses, when in this system we don't have the right to live in, we have a declared right, but we don't really have the right to trial within a reasonable period, when precisely for those reasons and the charges of lawyers or the charges of their services take place for an also unreasonable period of half a year, a year, two or three. Some of their expenses, lawyers, or their profits, never charge. How do you think that's how we work? What do you want? To take from those who have a lot, there's 3% of them and drive the rest of them to the labor desk, does that work? Were you afraid of dentists when you were little? Maybe you were afraid, so you want to destroy them.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17698	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17699	If certain provisions were difficult to defend, this is at least easy to defend. Why did we propose that lawyers, tax advisors, marketing agencies, private medical practice and dentists be exempt from the system of flat tax? First, let me explain to the public once again and to all the MPs what kind of taxation exists. Those companies that have over eight million dinars per year must be legally in the VAT system. So, no matter what action it is. There are a lot of lawyers and private medical offices in the VAT system. Those who have a turnover of up to six million dinars, there are two categories of such taxpayers. One is those who are cobwebs, and they are cut into estimated earnings during the year, and the other category is so-called. "bookers", those who keep books and record actual incomes, actual expenditures, and then pay taxes on the difference achieved. In doing so, sir, I'd like to point out to you that all of this you've said, why don't lawyers be recognised by the cost of transporting car workers, all of this is legally recognised if they're "bookers". It doesn't matter what the income and expenditures are, it's estimated in about every city what the base is and that's what the flat tax is paid for. Introduces the so-called "bookkeeper." real income and expenditure, and then all these expenses you mentioned are recorded in books and refused income, and the difference is only paid income. As far as this system is concerned, where all these professions are covered by flat-rate taxation, unfairly, it will show the data from the practice that I'm about to present to you. Before that, let me tell you that flat-rate taxation is foreseen as an exceptional right for those taxpayers who are unable to run books and, of course, if their traffic is less than three million under the previous law, according to the new law that we are now passing from six million dinars. According to the existing solution, they do not have the right to be shoppers of large and small, hotels, restaurants, financial mediation, real estate agencies, and we have now proposed that marketing agencies, auditors, accountants, tax advisers, but also lawyers, private medical practice and dentists be excluded from the pausal taxation system and to keep books. What does bookkeeping mean? That means those who don't, if you say they make ends meet, if they don't have income, they won't pay taxes. They just have to keep records of how many customers they really had, how much they charged, and how much they charged, that's their income, and that's how much they're paying for the electricity, how much they pay for the water, how much they pay if they have someone in the employee's office and, unlike them, they get 10% of the taxes, and that's the actual income tax they make. Today, such a system has been created which, in my opinion, everyone in the Ministry of Finance, is deeply unfair. For what? I'll give an example of a number of categories of lawyers. It is assumed that the average monthly net earnings of beginners in Belgrade are 21,680 dinars, in Novi Sad 16,800 dinars, and in Nis 16,260 dinars, while for these more experienced lawyers with over 20 years of internships are assumed to earn 35,230 dinars, in Novi Sad, 39,000 dinars, for some reason more money from lawyers in Novi Sad, in Belgrade, and in Nis 33,279 dinars. I don't just want to talk about lawyers. Today, a dentist in Belgrade is believed to make an average salary of 28,455 dinars net. Please, the average salary in Serbia is currently 45,000 dinars? If someone convinces me that a dentist has a salary of 28,000 dinars a month, on what grounds does he pay taxes? If that's justice, I'll, as they say, take off his hat. For dentists, it's also an odd case. For some reason, there's a bigger tax for dentists in Nis. There it is assumed that unlike these 28,000 dinars, how much they allegedly make in Belgrade, they earn in Nis 29. Seventy-five six dinars, and that's their basis for a flat tax. On the other hand, there are lawyers today, and that would be nothing new, which are scribes, who have chosen to keep books, not to pay a flat tax. There are also those who pay zero dinars a year because they're bookmakers, because they don't have clients, and there are those whose profits are implicitly 588,000 dinars. Now, how do you, whoever it is, I don't mean personally, to convince us at the Ministry of Finance and how do you convince the whole people that it's fair that, I don't know, the basis is to assume that the lawyer makes the most experienced, most professional, 35,000 dinars net pay a month, and you have a case here that lawyers who aren't in the VAT system say they make 588,000 dinars? It's a very big difference. What's the point? When books are kept, those who have no clients, those who have no traffic will pay less, but those who have clients will either have to forge, which is a big problem for a lawyer's profession, which is not easy to counterfeit because it is known in courts how many cases there are and can be very directly controlled. Well, who's got more clients, I guess he should pay more? Simply, it is amazing to keep a system that implies that the net receipts of these respected professions are much lower than the average salaries in Serbia, not to say than workers' salaries. It's simply unsustainable as a just solution. That is why our ministry has proposed that these professions keep books and pay taxes relative to real economic strength. Those who earn more will pay more, and those who earn little will pay less. There is no closure of the store and all costs are accounted for on the dispensary side. All expenses - and dental material, which is not cheap, to be understood immediately, but it is a cost-effective and essential item. It's not tax revenue, it's the difference between income and expenditure. Therefore, given that the Committee on Economic Affairs and Finance did not have enough votes to adopt this amendment, it has stayed with you, MPs, for a statement in the day for the vote, I ask everyone to vote on their own conscience on this amendment. This isn't about government policy or politics. I don't know who. This is about basic tax justice. Of course, this is democracy, and as most people decide, so it will be, I would like all these amendments to be rejected. I know it's so-called. Serbia's lawyer lobby is very big and very strong, but I don't think it's fair that when it's obvious that lawyers are or are able to run booksellers as well as those who have restaurants, hotels, I don't see the difference, and if it's a small law firm, pay the accountant. I'm not gonna get out of your sight because an accountant doesn't cost more than 20, 30 euros a month, so if you can't make that much money, you pay an accountant or you're not so capable of running it yourself, so you don't have to do that job.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17700	Thank you. National MP Srdjan Mikovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17701	Madam Chairman, I believe the injured members are 27th and 164th. Rules of Procedure. I don't understand who's defending whose attitude? Mr. Minister defends his position, which is diametrically contrary to the government's position. I can't believe someone could have fooled the prime minister, the first Deputy Prime Minister or anyone in presenting the arguments for and against when they decided on Mr Babic's amendment. The government has decided to accept Mr Babic's amendment, and today the minister here pleads for a solution to the diametrically opposed view of the government. That's why I suggest that the session be terminated and that this fact be brought to the attention of the Prime Minister. What I said at the beginning of this agenda, it's obvious that someone represents their interests and that someone should represent the interests of the government. In that sense, I believe that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, because it must not happen. By the time the government declared itself on the amendment of Mr Babic, until all the rights of the Prime Minister to represent the government's position or its position as a representative of the Government, and the moment the government declared itself on this particular matter, in particular Article 23, the minister's duty was, whether he agrees personally or not, to defend what the Prime Minister, the first vice president and most government members had accepted. We're practically getting into a situation where the government's obviously fallen right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17702	Mr. Mikovic, I don't think the above-mentioned member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured, since this is what you're talking about... So I read clearly that the government has rejected this amendment. The amendment we were just talking about the government refused, as I have a reminder. So the minister was talking about this amendment. I don't think he's hurt his Rules of Procedure. If you feel otherwise, you may request that we make a statement in the Voting Day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So we're talking about this amendment. Anyone else want a word? (Milos Aligrudić, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Milos Aligrudic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17703	A 27th member has been injured on your part, Madam Chairman. For the most part, please do not enter into such types of mental pranks – this amendment has been expressed negatively by the Government; you know, this amendment is about. This is about a solution and we're talking about the contents of things. Don't make fun of the MPs with merciless formalism. It's not your job, it's to run the session. The government has accepted the position to return the flat tax in the bill for these people. That's a fact. Whether it was formal through this member or another, who speaks something like that, that's another story. Don't use it, because it's very short legs.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17704	Mr. Aligrudic, I really can't agree with you. I'm sticking to the Rules of Procedure and I'm talking about the agenda point. This amendment in this text is different from that of the amendment accepted by the Government. I made it very clear. I'm not talking about the principle and the essence, I'm talking about the amendment. Please, I have clearly read that the government has rejected this amendment. Let me stick to the Rules of Procedure. It's just what we can talk about. (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: I ask that the National Assembly in the Day of Voting be heard about it. You want us to come to the voter's vote on that, all right. Now you're looking for a replica of exposure. National MP Milos Aligrudic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17705	Thank you very much. There's no minister. He's gone. It's just amazing, but let me use this right, no matter what the man's not there, and his problem is he can't answer afterwards. So it's a complete twist of facts. Well, of course everyone's capable of keeping books. We're not going to declare the whole profession incompetent or multiplicity that they can do it. This is about something else. Is it convenient for someone to keep those books, given the circumstances in question? For example, it is not convenient for taxi drivers to keep books, and if they were tried to introduce a tax, Mr. Minister, in this way, they would block increasing cities in Serbia. There's no one here to block anything, it's just a matter of elemental logic. So it's impossible to ask for the introduction of books as a mandatory form of taxation for those categories of taxpayers who, in principle, can't do it because they're complicated for financial reasons and for the reasons of how they run their jobs, and that's the vast majority of dentists who run small dental offices, it's a huge, large majority of lawyers who run their small law firms. The estimated profit you're talking about, the estimated profit, so it's the estimated profit you listed, alas, unfortunately correct for most lawyers and most of the small dentists, if you didn't know that. It's just that there's 10, 15, 20 healthy law offices or large dental offices that make more money, okay? That's why the chamber suggested you make choices or double taxation systems, so people can choose what's convenient and appropriate to them, not to do what you've done right now and hit over a tree. That's exactly the way to get people out of the profession. Where's the state budget charm? Get out of your school cases.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17706	Thank you. The next in line is Sanja Cekovic, who is proposing the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17707	The esteemed chairman, Mr. Minister, of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Serbia, has tabled an amendment to this member of the law, as well as almost all parliamentary groups. Because of the public, we have to explain that this Article 23 has different views, but everyone agrees that the pausal should remain and that no exceptions should be made. What we wanted with our amendment. We were going to say that the amount of six million dinars limiting the possibility of flat-rate bookkeeping, as the specific way of books, or the easiest way of books, should remain as the only criterion. We didn't want to go in, and we didn't want to judge what actions they could do, which they couldn't. If we've decided on a cobweb, then we're giving it to everyone, and if that six-million-dollar limit in some traffic is crossed annually, then it's automatically moving on to bookkeeping, and if there's any doubt that someone who runs books, those six million shows in one way or another, so whether it's lawyers, whether it's dentists, whether it's auditors, there's financial police, who, following the daily traffic of these particulars, can establish it. So let us not be someone who will predetermine certain actions and certain professions for someone who does not show business in the right and the right way. Law offices, as well as dental offices and any medical activities, can be bigger and smaller. In a law firm, they can work 10 lawyers, they can also work one, who eventually has an intern, and who in some small place doesn't have as many cases and so much charge and so much tolerance as someone else. So our point of view is that we don't disqualify anyone, that we allow everyone to keep books casually if they don't cross six million dinars. What I still resent is that I and my MP group, this proposal and Article 23, have again been discriminated against in our actions and in our family's engagement. In earlier years, the cobwebs could have been both businessmen and entrepreneurs who had small businesses. In principle, they were always cobwebs, because small shops also mean small traffic, and its equipment has talked about its traffic many times. Now the equipment of the store is completely excluded and we want to say that one store, which has four refrigerators and has milk in it, has processing, has ice cream, can earn equal or equal to that store that doesn't have a refrigerator and that can sell bread and cookies. So it's very interesting that the setting of whether these two shops can have identical markets and whether they can be identified. The fact that there's always a family involved in small trades, it's just this family business. The family often opens a trade shop, owned by a son, a daughter, so one of the family members, and parents who are either retired or retired, in some ways trying to help them, not to hire people who need to pay for all their jobs, because the traffic and profits they make in these shops is not enough to hire someone more than family. We have finally seen that our proposal has not been passed, but we have seen and concluded that you have understood the amendment to Member of the 23rd Parliament of Babic and we are in principle satisfied. The idea has passed and because of the public, it will only be the cobwebs who make traffic up to six million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17708	Thank you. I will now read to you the order of the MPs, so that you know: the first is Neđo Jovanovic, Milisav Petronijevic, Sasa Milenić, Vladimir Marinkovic, Snezana Stojanović, Judita Popović, Miodrag Djidić and Jovan Palalic. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: I give up. ) Next Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17709	I'll turn my exposure into a question. I would like to remind you that when we discussed these laws on Friday in principle, that at that time I supported the government's proposal to amend the Law on Income Tax, in a work relating to the taxation of independent entrepreneurs, and particularly pointed out the very important fact that when it comes to the income of independent entrepreneurs, the income of independent entrepreneurs is divided into labour income, income from capital. I particularly stressed the importance of increasing the flat-rate limit from three million to six million given the possible savings in administration and particularly supported the government's proposal to exempt from the system of flat-rate taxation from the work that was being discussed today. These are legal, accounting, audit, health care, not to list any further activity, considering that they are highly qualified professions that they can and should pay a tax on actual income. I still think these professions need to pay taxes on real income. My first question is, if someone doesn't pay a tax on real income whether it's this big or this big, it's completely irrelevant, what does he pay for? From the eye? I understand he's not paying a income tax that's twice as big as it's real, but real. If that's the difference between income and all recognised expenses, that's it, isn't that fair. If it's a small income, the small one will be taxed. If he's not here, there won't be a tax. If it's big, it's a big tax. It's a message to my government, too, that it's just and that it's the right thing to do. I won't, if the government has accepted it, and I see six parliamentary groups, all of them joined together to defend these amendments concerning it, and interestingly, most of all, the exemption of lawyers and health workers, not all of them, and those who seek for all those others, and not to resent my colleagues, I greatly appreciate that profession, a lot of lawyers, is normal to defend their position and their profession. But, Mr. Minister, it is also normal for me as a layman in that part to ask a question as a folk MP – what is the aim of amending this law in this part, if we simultaneously increase the limit from three to six million and bring all these entrepreneurs back to the paushale? Mr. Minister, what are the fiscal effects of that? I can see there's a lot of reasons that this will make things difficult. How much more difficult is it going to be if it doesn't have a financial effect? I ask you, you are responsible to say whether or not they will. Why are we changing that? I still don't think it's a good idea to increase the limit from three to six million at the same time and keep them all down, with due respect for all professions. It's not fair, it's not fair, it's unfair when someone doesn't pay taxes on real income. What's that supposed to pay for, if not for real income? Given that I find it very difficult to be both sustainable and both, or to answer what is then changing, what are the financial and fiscal effects, I think you should give an answer not only to me, but to the public, which is why, and if there is no actual income tax to be paid for, to which income should be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17710	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17711	I couldn't agree more with you, and that's exactly the direction the Ministry of Finance's proposal went, and it is the way it is in front of you right now to plead. So we've increased the cap on flat-rate taxation from three to six million dinars, but we're asking that this system excludes this profession that we're talking about and that they pay taxes not on estimated income, which is obviously underestimated in the largest number of cases, but on the actual ones. In this way we will not put all dentists, not all lawyers, not all accountants in the same basket, but we will separate those who have more work, make more money, so unlike income and expenditure, they will pay taxes at the same rate, but on a higher basis than those who earn less. So it's a fundamental question of justice, and we don't think there will be any fiscal effects left. We think that when real income is recorded, there will be more money in the budget than that, but the overwhelming reason why we suggested this is the principle of tax justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17712	National MP Sasa Milenic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17713	If I had been able to get word on this amendment a few minutes earlier, the word would probably have started with the words – Jr., Emperor, with an apology for saying so openly, because I think there is a political consistency and correctness here in conflict with the minority habits of society constraint in the ideas of privilege. It is obvious to all of us that here they have come to a conflict of esnafi very prominent and influential, with one idea of fiscal justice, a liberal economic concept, but that defends the market and that elemental human dignity right for everyone to appear freely on that market. It is not a legal proposal that damages positions or taxes, even for Iot, makes it difficult to position prominent esnafs, such as lawyers, dentists and not to list further, but rather a standard that protects the state from possible abuse from that position. Their financial and tax situation won't get any worse, but the state wants to be more protected from possible abuses. I sincerely believe in the prestigiousness of these esnafs because it is actually a key layer of the intelligence of this society, and it would have to be the first to show courage and willingness to take and the risks and responsibilities of free play on the free market. The discussions of some colleagues, I will not discuss them by name, but they are obviously burdened by a serious conflict of interest. I will not mention names, but it is true that the debaters are very often from the esnafs who would like to retain certain privileges, not to mention that we are not talking about an amendment accepted by the government, only by a heavy burden of conflict of interest can I understand the challenge of the government even by opposition MPs, not to mention ignoring the elemental parliamentary duty. We're not gonna expect the government to pass laws on us, are we? The laws of the Republic of Serbia are made by us, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. We thank you for all the proposals made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but we are the ones whose will is legislative and will that establish the law. I totally like the intonation that previously discussed Mr. Petronijevic, explaining from the point of view of the idea of justice, which is not at all in conflict with the liberal ideas of the market, if they were followed by equivalent ideas of fiscal responsibility, which everyone in the free market would also have to demonstrate. But the courage demonstrated by the Ministry of Finance and Mr Dinkic must be compared only to one known and dear example in Serbia's democratisation. As formerly on the opposition Ravno Gora, which Vuk Draskovic was the only politician likely in Europe, ready to speak publicly in front of a public who is shaking from all firearms, this courage in Serbia today comes by the principle of justice in conflict even with the legal esnaf, it is an honor for you, Mr Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17714	Thank you. National MP Milos Aligrudic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17715	Article 107. The previous speaker has no right, and you should have warned him that he is insulting the MPs by pre-qualifying them as members of a certain esnaf who wants to retain certain privileges. This unequivocally stems from the presentation of the previous speaker. If you don't believe me or you're hard on your ears, take a stenogram and see. It's something that's inadmissible in this home. You can't invite anyone in advance to keep it, if it has any privileges at all, or talk about MPs from the aspect of the protection of the esnaf. That's not why we're here. We're here to protect the interests of the citizens who chose us and who don't even belong to any esnafi. When it comes to me personally, I am on the Belgrade Bar of Lawyers list, but I haven't been doing it for years, but I've been doing it professionally in the National Assembly, so I don't have any direct interest even through paying taxes when it comes to law enforcement and the question is whether I'm ever going to continue. It's not about that at all. There was talk of a debate that rests on the health principles and the ability to see that something is not good, that it cannot be implemented in practice in the way it is imagined. And the napkins of insults that go to the expense of colleagues who have submitted this amendment or defend this amendment are really inadmissible.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17716	Thank you. Mr. Aligrudić, I cannot agree with you that Mr. Milenić, in his presentation, has at some point evened out the MPs. No, I don't. If you don't believe me, you can see from the stenographic notes. The next speaker is MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Sign up one more time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17717	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on this point, I will speak from the aspect of the reforms which, of course, need our country and their implementation is needed in one simple, dynamic and fast way. Of course, while respecting the arguments of other colleagues, I must first of all say, and here I would disagree with my colleague Milenic, that this amendment and proposed law are actually a child of the liberal concept of the economy. Moreover, I believe that it contributes to the creation of an ambience and society of equal opportunities for which the SDPS favours the soul. If we want to implement reforms, we definitely have to create and I think that the first postulate of creating a market economy, which we still don't have, unfortunately, in full capacity, is a society of equal odds. If we are talking about the economic priorities of this government and economic long-term development, our priority should be re-industrialisation, production, craftsmanship, small and medium-sized enterprises and, I feel free to say, we need to focus all our strengths in order to provide them with an environment so that they can do better business, hire people. With respect to all other professions and all other professions, but this budget and this country can develop and our gross domestic product can be accelerated, increased only if the sector of those who create additional value on the market, if their position and if their position improves. If we want to create an entrepreneurial society, not an official society, we can't talk -- now some lobby comes and presses that some law or member of a law is accepted or not accepted because of their interest. Speaking of the average profit in that domain and in that 25,000 dinar sector, you do not need to be an economist and a major economic analyst to realize that these are not accurate data, that these are not accurate analyses. What should be the interest of this government and this Parliament, that all citizens, that all people who deal with any business or business, pay that tax to the state that they should pay. We can't let someone pay for some unknown reason less than they pay for others. I therefore do not see any reason to accept this amendment, because it does not contribute to the development of the market economy and, of course, by the effects that occur there. If we talk about our development also depends on domestic investment, domestic producers, domestic businessmen, it depends largely on foreign direct investment. If we create such an ambiance that they will not all be in the same position, of course our rating will be weaker and, of course, investors will visit us in the broad port in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17718	Mr. Milenic, please give up the replica, because we really have a lot of registered speakers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17719	It's completely summed up. I do not want to rephrase the controversy, but to clarify the dilemma that has arisen, I agree, when it comes to the spirit of the proposed law, your assessment of the understanding of the idea of a society of equal odds in it and how it is present. I was just talking about the fact that it was already in the discussion, that almost all the parliamentary groups have submitted an amendment to this concept which is the subject of the current discussion, but the MP group of the URS did not do so. By representing this attitude we have heard from Minister Dinkic, he is fully in the spirit of the programme and political principles of the URS. Of course, the parliamentary majority will decide what the fate of this amendment and the final legal text will be, but that was the purpose of my mentioning the liberal concept of the economy. This is what we advocate in general economic and political philosophy, which in this very case illustrates that it is not mentality and political philosophy, which is deaf and blind to the demands of justice and the principles of social demands of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17720	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17721	I thank you, Chairman. Can you just tell me how much time my MP group has left? (President: there are two minutes and 20 seconds left for your parliamentary group. I thank you. As one colleague said the other day, I almost cried over the fate of poor lawyers, but it is not a terrible thing that I wanted to cry, but I am afraid that the citizens will actually cry over their fate. These are the citizens you've been talking about for days about their chickens, wells, stables, etc. If it were true that they should bear the burden of the crisis, then it would indeed be sad. But lawyers, ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about? I've been a little longer. There was no government and there was no parliamentary majority in the previous, when fiscal cash registers were introduced in 2005, which had the courage to regulate the payment of lawyers' taxes in this way. At the beginning, I said, when this amendment was submitted, really not knowing how my parliamentary group would finally plead, that I would not vote for that amendment. I won't vote because eight years of my friends, my neighbors are talking to me – when will you once introduce lawyers the same rules under which we live and work? I have a neighbor who owns a small shop. He sells electro-materials. For every light bulb he sells, he has to give a fiscal bill. Then the tax inspectors come and say, "Well, give me the fiscal bills." But, you know, in this fiscal account, I don't like the weather, the clock, etc., so he pays a fine of 50,000 dinars, or how much punishment he already has, because he took the cashier's cashier's cash register, but that master didn't exactly fix that cash. But that's why lawyers pay like they're making 20,000 dinars. Please, what are we talking about? What kind of justice in this society do we want to talk about, if we're willing to accept this kind of dusting in our eyes? You know, a woman's parliamentary network has recently been formed in parliament, but there's this much stronger parliamentary network that's been working here for 10 years and I won't be standing behind it. Do you know why? Now I've looked at the tariff by which lawyers charge their services. If you have a so-called. Disruption of property, or divorce, or you have some work dispute, you'll pay 16,500 dinars to a lawyer.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17722	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17723	You will pay 33,000 dinars for the appeal. If you're in charge of a misdemeanor, you'll pay 54,000 dinars. One complaint. (Chairman: Please watch your time.) Yes, I'll respect the weather. I'll finish. Just one sentence. You'll let me do that. You're always denying me time. So if one complaint is 54,000 dinars, is it possible that the total income is 21,000 dinars? I really ask you and I urge all colleagues to finally stand in the way of trying to fool the state by those who are capable of paying taxes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17724	The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17725	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me tell you something, we just heard the best example of prejudice against lawyers. It was also an invitation to the lynch. So the lawyers who charge for the tariff, for God's sake, need to figure out if they're going to go out on the street tomorrow, so maybe some unemployed worker will, right, welcome them with some tolago. It is a lynch, when you are publicly reading one legal tariff, and you really don't even know if the legal tariff has been charged in today's economic conditions in the state of Serbia. So Serbia is not an ideal state. In the ideal state, everyone pays taxes. Don't forget that lawyers pay taxes, now it's just a matter of whether they're going to be taxed or kept books. That's absolutely not a problem. But don't forget they're not all Belgrade lawyers. Not all of them are lawyers from Novi Sad. Not all lawyers defend paedophiles, defending protected hooligans, defending organized crime. So, it's not about one of the hard part of law enforcement. This is about 90% of intellectual-service entrepreneurs, and that should be pointed out. Is it coming back again that time that intelligence is suspicious? This is about entrepreneurs who, first of all, belong to the middle class. Do we need someone to tear the skin off our backs again just because it belongs to that part of the population that represents...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17726	Time, Mrs. Judith. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17727	Why do you keep changing the thesis? Those who don't have a job won't pay taxes. If they keep books, they won't have income, so there's no tax. If they have a small income, too. You say they're not all lawyers in Belgrade. Of course not. One who has lower income, has expenses, unlike pay taxes. Why are you against the fact that a tax is true for lawyers, I simply don't understand that initiative to protect someone from paying their taxes honestly? Doesn't mean he'll pay bigger. Maybe someone will pay less than this if they really don't have any clients. But those who have more clients should pay more. Why are you protecting the truth? Is your party's parole true? Justice? This is all else but not true and not justice. We're just looking to establish a real state. We respect professions and lawyers, dentists, accountants, all professions are truly respectable. There's no reason for any lawyer to be afraid of keeping books unless he wants the state to tax him legally. How legal? The flat-rate tax due to the presence of lobbyist groups gives rise to those who have more than the responsibility to falsify books. Let's look the truth in the eye. The system we're proposing protects those lawyers who don't have much work to do. They don't even need an accountant to pay. Whoever graduates from law school and has three transactions a year can register the amount of income and the amount of expenditure. It's not some high math. You have Konstantinovic here whose whole family is in law enforcement, he'll tell you the same thing. How many lawyers are there today who keep books? If I can do one, why can't I do the other? Why can't everybody? We just want to literally leave a flat-rate taxation only for those professions where there's an extraordinary right, because they're not capable of running books like cobblers, like some other professions. Well, you're not going to tell me that one shoemaker who, unfortunately, is less and less often people come to fix shoes and what are their prices, that he should now be in the same group with lawyers? It's not normal and it's not fair. So we just want to pay taxes not on estimated income, but on actual income, for lawyers, for dentists. I repeat, those lawyers who don't have jobs can't pay taxes on something they haven't earned. How much profit – so much tax. I just don't understand what the resistance to the idea of a tax being paid in proportion to economic strength and the proportion of what's really going on in life. If you could explain that to me, you would convince me that you were right. Because I repeat again, both lawyers in Novi Sad and Belgrade, let alone, in the Shop or in Ada, if they have no traffic, will not pay taxes. You have lawyers who are still in the book system. There are lawyers who don't pay any taxes now because they said they don't have any income. We just want the truth and we want justice. If they're lawyers against justice, then I don't know who should be the moral pillar of the justice system of society?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17728	He has the word Snezana Stojanović Plassic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17729	I don't want to burst this discussion right now, but I do feel called because I haven't called in any way. I'm taking it as an insult, because I would never call on any link and I don't think it's a link call if some data is out in public. I found the tariff in five seconds on the Internet, which means that every citizen can do it and it's not a single link call if I took this tariff out publicly. On the contrary, I think that when we talk about one subject that is important to citizens, we should also introduce them to all the facts. I'm just saying what's true. I don't understand why someone would want to pay a tax per foot like they're making 20 or 25,000 dinars, if one of his services costs 60,000 dinars? Or, 19,000 dinars? I didn't find any under it. It's incriminating. Don't tell me I'm talking about people from Belgrade. I'm from Leskovci. I have friends lawyers in Leskovac. I'm not saying they can charge 60,000, but, you know, none of them really are poor. That's what I have to tell you. And there's certainly less poverty than those who already keep books and pay taxes working in some small trades. What I'm looking for is justice for those who barely make money for themselves and their families and pay their debt to the state fairly. Today we talked about the state being in crisis, that we all need to endure the difficulties we are in. If all citizens can do that, I don't understand why lawyers would be an exception. That's the only thing I've ever claimed in my discussion, which I'm still standing behind, and I pray that my discussion really doesn't qualify for anything different than the need for a fair payment of what's coming to the state, so that we can all have what we really need the poorest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17730	Replica, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17731	Mr. Minister, if I understand you correctly, you've actually made one line between those who should pay taxes in a flat-rate manner and those who shouldn't, and a set that says who should actually pay the flat-rate is about ability, intellectual ability, if I understand you correctly, that taxpayer. So unless someone is intellectually capable of keeping books, they simply need to pay taxes on a flat-rate basis. I think your starting point is a mistake. The intellectual services provided by lawyers, and not only by lawyers, but also by all the others in point 1, and accounting, accounting, etc., service or activity, says that these are very specific services, often completely immeasurable, and that we do not talk about how often incurable. The cheapest thing in Serbia. In Serbia, something is not given much knowledge, expertise, ability. That's a very big problem. That's why when lawyers charge, they can hardly charge for the bar fees. I'd really like to see a citizen of Leskovci, Babushnica, Ade Sente, Perlez, who can come out with proof that he paid according to the bar fees some legal favor. That's just not the point. The theme is that lawyers are a specific kind of protector of human freedoms and rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17732	Time, Mrs. Judith. He has the word Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17733	This is why the solution to the current law is unfair. If financial intermediation agencies and real estate agencies are already obliged to keep books and cannot be in the flat-rate tax system, why wouldn't the same treatment be according to marketing agencies? What's the difference between a real estate agency and a marketing agency? Because of the lobbying, which was in the previous period, they were in the system too. Now let's get someone to convince me that an accountant can't keep books, so even accountants should be taxed. The same goes for lawyers. I repeat one more thing, it's not about whether anyone will have a tax that is disproportionate to his power. No one's looking for it and no one wants it. We want actually a fair system, where everyone is going to pay proportionately -- small lawyers with a little bit of work less, and big lawyers with more work. No more than that. It's very simple and it's simply an incomprehensible defense against this principle. How can you design it on anything rational? But, of course, it's your right, but it's absolutely against everything you've been saying all day and two days in these discussions so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17734	Thank you and we're done with the replicas. The word is by MP Judita Popovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17735	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm advertising an article. 27th and 107th. - way to run this session. The possibility of a choice is very important, Mr. Minister. So, will any lawyer or any of these entrepreneurs from point 1 decide on books or on a flat-rate manner of driving, paying taxes is... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17736	Mrs. Judita Popovic, please, when you advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you must address me and explain to me what the injured Rules of Procedure is, and you cannot address the minister. Please, if you are now advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I warn you to advertise it in the right sense, otherwise I will give you a warning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17737	Mr. Vice President, I'm advertising Article 107. - a violation of this House's dignity. So the minister came to parliament and the minister is there to answer questions and to discuss MPs. In any case, you cannot exclude an MP from the electronic system unless you have respected the procedure provided for by the Rules of Procedure. Only if you have done all the warning, in which case you have the right to exclude the MP, but no one can interrupt the MP in his presentation. It is very important that, if this member of the law is discussed, everything is inconclusive. And now he's throwing himself away. And now he's in the way. And now it's making noise. Here, you're already breaking the Rules of Procedure, Article 108, and you're not responding. You've been allowing various replicas all day long, and this is about a clear legal member and a clear amendment to that member of the law. It's about taking away the ability to elect lawyers and other entrepreneurs to pay taxes. So it's not about not paying. In a country where every third man doesn't work, in a country where 175 companies are in restructuring... (President: You have again, Mrs. Judith, moved on to the line. This is not a replica at all, I am merely explaining to you why you should have given me the right to a replica, and by not giving you a violation of the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. So you must not forget that this is a representative body, this is a legislative body, this is a parliament of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, you must respect both the parliament and the MPs who speak in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17738	I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, and you can ask us to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure in the day of the vote. You want to turn this congregation into a public controversy, not a constructive debate. What you had to explain about your amendment, I think you gave. Also, on all your questions, I followed well, the minister gave his explanation. Therefore, any debate is unnecessary. You will remain in your position, the minister will remain in his position, and MPs will vote in the voting day as they wish. That's why I really find it unnecessary and that you abuse the Rules of Procedure in the form of a public debate, in the form of controversy. It's no longer an amendment debate, and I'm asking you to respect that. Is anyone looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? The word is Judith Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17739	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I'm advertising Article 108. – keeping an eye on order at the session. I don't know whether you don't notice it or not to notice it being thrown as one MP speaks, while one MP explains his legitimate position on some opinions, or the views of Minister Dinkic. So you didn't warn any of the MPs who were insolent, who were yelling, throwing, and in fact disrupting the order at this session. Mr. Chairman, yes, parliament is a place, it is an institution where laws are discussed, where laws are broken. This is where the debate will be held, not outside parliament and outside the institutions. In Serbia, this is exactly the problem, which is a lot of things being done extra-institutionally. Serbia is in big trouble because it simply does not allow entrepreneurs, does not allow people with vision and will to start some small business. Serbia is obviously still insisting in that wrong economic policy that it destroys every entrepreneurial spirit, destroys the middle class, destroys what this economy actually carries, when all giants in the meantime have failed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17740	Mrs. Judith, I'm really asking you not to abuse the Rules of Procedure. I fully understood the first part of you, and I agree in part in this sense that MPs should be dignified and not interfere with the participants in the debate. That's where I agree, it was, but not as pronounced as it can be. So I accept that, and I ask the MPs to respect the dignity of the congregation in this regard and not to earn it. As for the rest of the work, you have re-abused the Rules of Procedure and I ask you not to question my patience. I really don't want to punish anyone here, I'm not a cop, but I want to cooperate with you and bring the debate to an end under this law. In that sense, I ask you to be correct with each other. Does anyone have a replica? (No) Since there are more registered by the amendment here, I must respect the order, so I will read the reports: Miodrag Djidic, Jovan Palalic, Marijan Risticevic, Neđo Jovanovic and Vladimir Ilic. The first word has a National MP, Miodrag Djidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17741	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I must say that lawyers, as well as other professions, by the Law amending the Law on Income Tax, share the fate of society. So, today in Serbia, it's very difficult to live, the economy is in a very difficult position and can't be lawyered up in something privileged. I'll talk about the law, and I think that applies to all the other professions. What I'm saying is that today in Serbia, lawyers are in an extremely difficult position, or lawyers who work are in no position since a few years ago, because there's just no money left. Now you ministers can take a look, there's a list of taxpayers out there, and unfortunately you'll see there's a lot of lawyers on that list. They're not lawyers on that list because they don't want to pay. Lawyership is an honorable profession, and I'm sure they run to settle the tax first and then the rest, but people just don't have the money. That's got to be understood. On the other hand, the state, I know until last year, and I don't believe anything that's changed has changed enormously in debt to lawyers for official defenses. It's about billions of dinars. On the one hand, the state can't settle the law, and on the other hand, it's asking for taxes. Now an additional obligation for those who make up to six million in revenue to keep books. I think it's really unnecessary and it doesn't lead to anything. You said here – there is no problem paying 30 euros to the accountant and he solved the problem. Believe me, for many lawyers in Leban, Žitoraj and smaller places where you simply have no one to charge anything and 30 euros for a lawyer is a lot. It's a lot. Don't look at just top lawyers, of course there are, but they're not some problem, they all seem to me in the VAT system. So, those who work well, they make good money, they run books in the VAT system, and they don't have any problems. Think about those little lawyers who live in small towns. I guarantee you the ministers that a good craftsman in Belgrade was a hairdresser, a shoemaker, you were calling on a shoemaker, earning more than an average lawyer in smaller towns in Serbia. I guarantee you that, and I'm sure of it, and then why don't they keep books? No, they don't, and lawyers need to keep books. So, don't make a commitment to them, there's no need for that, it seems to me that the IRS is a good estimate of the tax force of the lawyers and they can determine that flat tax in the right way. So, in this way, it seems to me, that in some ways, the lawyer is opposed to other professions, which of course is not the goal or desire. Lawyers are people who do work, who do work of particular interest and importance for Serbian citizens and should be treated as such. I repeat, those who do well pay an extra-value tax, they're in the book system and they don't have any problems. Many lawyers today barely make ends meet, I've already said that, but I also have to say that today, unfortunately, many lawyers who would never go to law school had to go to law school because their firms failed, they lost their jobs, and people have to live on something. They try a lawyer, there's a lot of competition, and there's not enough work for everyone. There's not enough work for everyone, and many lawyers are barely making ends meet, and we have to take care of them because they're still getting off the back of the state and trying to make their own living. Let's respect that people try to survive in these difficult times. I think this amendment needs to be respected, to remain a flat-rate taxation, and whoever wants to run the books thinks they'll pay more or less taxes in that way, so let's let him do it. But let's not push everyone into the same basket because not everyone deserves to be in the same basket.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17742	Thank you. Just to tell you that you, as your representative group, have wasted your time. Before I give my word, I have to say that the DSS as a parliamentary group for one minute and 30 seconds, that's how much you have available. The word is John Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17743	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, when we observe the bar, we can't look at her separately from the state. Everything the state does directly concerns the work of law enforcement. I have to say, in the previous period, exactly with the state of law, it has come to a very difficult situation, especially in small towns. That's very important to say because this is about these lawyers. By reforming the judiciary, the state abolished the basic courts in a large number of municipalities. By reforming the judiciary in these small towns, the state has transferred a large number of competent courts to more or more appeals courts. The state is a reform of the judiciary, and notaries are now being introduced that will take a large part of the lawyer's business when it comes to the conclusion of the contract and everything else. The state owes big money to lawyers for official defenses, not to say how much the economy owes. Now that we're talking about justice, we need to talk about the extent to which the state's conduct has been brought into this situation. On the other hand, if we want full justice, then let's put an end to it. That's fair justice. That's absolutely fair, then. This criterion of whether anyone knows or doesn't know that keeping books is so stretchy that it doesn't solve anything. It's not about someone wanting to or not wanting to tax evasion, but whether they can or can't work and how much income and traffic they've been making in those small places in the past and how much money they've been paid. So the state has to decide on such an undertaking to fully consider the matter and then approach decisions like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17744	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17745	I fully express a lack of understanding for your logic. If the state owes the lawyers, which I don't dispute, it owes from the previous period. This means that the lawyers to whom they are owed have no income, if they have no income, do not pay any taxes. I tell you all the time, I don't know if we speak the same language, so it's like you don't want to hear it. The one who's in a difficult position to give a lawyer, whether a dentist, whatever profession he's in if he's in charge of books will show real income. If he's asking for something from the state from the previous period or anyone else, and that applies to anyone not only for lawyers, he has no income and he can't pay taxes because he doesn't. This law does not require those who do not have to pay. They're asked to pay taxes to those they have. There is a clear selection and the difference between the Žitoradje lawyer I assume has much less traffic, but don't tell me – it is a good estimate of the Tax Administration that the average net salary is at an average of all the lawyers in Serbia 20,000 dinars per month or for these most experienced up to 35,000 dinars. To earn more lawyers in Novi Sad than in Belgrade, it is quite clear that it is purely arbitration. Estimate means arbitration, not reality. We're looking for justice to be real. The one who doesn't want to pay, the one who has to pay. I join what the chair has said, everyone here will keep their opinions, but let's not in any way, I won't use hard words, but here is a matter of basic justice, basic logic, and simply here, no one can convince anyone. I'm the only one who's sorry about this amendment most of the time, I'm not saying it's you because I don't know, just those who are lawyers, just the ones who are kind of in that law lobby network. Let me tell you, I don't necessarily consider lobbying something ugly, but don't go against it, just don't exaggerate lobbying.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17746	Replica, Jovan Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17747	Mr. Minister, we don't understand each other again, so this isn't about lobbying at all. First of all, I would like to remind you that the Serbian Government has made a decision to exempt lawyers from the sheets. Do we speak the same language here? The government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted Mr. Zoran Babic's amendment as deputy head of the SNS parliamentary group. So the ruling majority is behind what we're talking about here today. We're just trying to discuss in reality what the problem is. The ruling majority obviously thinks there's no problem and apparently you as a minister disagree with the ruling majority's position. Of course, it's your right. I just want to point out one more thing. So we need to talk about justice. We've been discussing this set of laws a lot these days. I would like to ask another question – is it fair that these laws are taxed now by refugees, if we talk about justice? That's not fair. Taxing social cases. It's not right either. We just have to look at the situation that society is in. I understand that the state has a budget problem but we can't tax refugees on one side, tax social cases, and on the other hand solve this problem regarding a lawyer. I remind again this is an amendment submitted by the president of the National Assembly, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, this is also his amendment and Mr Zoran Babic and the government accepted it. What's the issue here now? Some applaud some don't applaud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17748	He has the word Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17749	You gave me a reason to answer, even though it was at the hearing yesterday, because I didn't answer at the time. It doesn't change these laws at all tax treatment, not refugees, not social cases, just terminology has changed, so it's explicitly put into the law something that stands in the rules now. It's important to know. In no way has he changed, nor will the tax treatment of these endangered categories in our society change. As far as the amendments are concerned, you know it much better than I do, because you have been an MP for a long time, that if the Committee on Economic Affairs and Finance does not adopt the text of the amendment proposed by the MP or the Government, it cannot be an integral part of the text and that it is then given the possibility for Members of Parliament to decide on the fate of the amendment in the day of voting. I think it's a democratic right. I, as finance minister, will respect your will, and you will decide as you think it is fair and I believe that each of you has your own opinion on this, right to that opinion, and I agree that now we need to show the arguments whether or not we should vote in favour of the amendment. I don't think you should.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17750	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17751	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm gonna start my speech with that famous peasant saying, "May God give it all to lawyers." So I understood the government's position and the minister's position. I am one-handedly pleased when someone avoids taxation on that side, and I am glad that the government has accepted Mr Babic's amendment. As early as last session, a gentleman from the party of the former regime asked lawyers, behold, miracles, to receive a court practice that was printed in the "officer" quite free of charge, not just regulations and acts, and I then said that lawyers were very powerful. So when it comes to lawyers and doctors, I remember well that I said that the assembly is simply a conspiracy. I'm not saying that our doctors, our lawyers, are to blame for taking the government's stand. That's what I expected. In one hand, I secretly support it, and on the other hand, when I see their tariffs not to tax it, but if it's six million traffic, it automatically earns six million minus pen and paper. So, on that side, there is absolutely no understanding, especially for the legal profession, and on the one hand I would support that, at least they avoid it, and I support that by law, less people pay taxes, and on the other hand, for the past four years the former regime's party has been missing 170 thousand jobs in entrepreneurs. No legal place has been shut down among entrepreneurs, many new ones have been opened, and in the meantime, at least those involved in production and trade and services have disappeared 170 thousand entrepreneurs and no one here has knocked on them. Whether they were shopkeepers or were employed in those shops, mostly the entrepreneurs had 170 thousand jobs missing in the last three or four years during the rule of the former regime, and no one was out of opposition or position because of that, but when doctors and lawyers were concerned, then he complained to the sky, then the government itself was being left out. I'm not surprised. We peasants were introduced yesterday by the tax that agricultural land is the base of property tax, which was never the case, I'm the only one who nailed it. So, basically all these taxes through the price of the service, through the price of goods, pay for the poverty of heaven, and when it comes to the cash register of a lawyer, when it grabs a slag, the price of these services is largely calculated by all the tax obligations, regardless of whether they are flat-rate or anti-pausal. When the poverty of heaven, worker and peasant, I was a five-year worker, and the rest of the farmer, those who come to the register in these foreign chains, who are the only ones benefiting from our poor, when there's a cash register there, and then that consumer pays the whole tax, including the legal and all other services that are tied up in that chain, because everyone else's account is at the price of the service of goods, in deductible items, previous taxes, etc. When these various tycoons start to talk about how much their tax obligations never say that this is mainly their previous tax return and that the final customer, or end-user of any service or goods, pays that tax. More than 90% of this country's taxes are paid by the poor paradise that remains to support the country's overpriced state, that state, that public sector that left them out of work. So, there's 170 thousand people out of work, and we're all pissed off about a couple hundred lawyers and they're not our fault. Whoever's to blame for us peasants and workers for becoming a voting machine, politically unrelated, we don't have any political influence, we can get picked up by a bunch of us in the Assembly, but on the matter of doctors and lawyers, that's where they'll show up to be supported by those who aren't doctors and lawyers, there'll be patients and clients of lawyers. I'd love to support the minister, but I'll see more. In this I support him, as I do not support him in paying taxes on agricultural land, and it can also be construction and that poor farmers pay for it. In this I will support him, regardless of the position of the parliamentary group, although I would be glad to have certain groups excluded from any tax, in a way that I would be glad to have it as a citizen, when someone is not taxed, even if it wasn't me, but someone else, but for lawyers, I'm not sure. I support the Minister's ideas of equating the public sector and private. The public sector lives as it will, and in private as it must and I propose that the number of public sector employees be equal to the number of employees in production, to pay in the public sector, which the minister preaches to be equal pay in the private sector, but that the number of employees in the public sector cannot cross the number of employees in production, and the number of employees in production is only 300 000 or slightly less, and the number of public sector employees from local self-government cities, the province to the republic is 600 000. I support the minister, if he starts making a cheaper state cheaper public sector, and I'm going to have the economy, because he's not just a finance minister, he's going to be a minister of economy and economy, so he should make an ambience to make the economy somehow for that money and to disburse, and then tax some additional items of such an economy. In that I fully support him, I will support him in this amendment, too, just because those who work a little bit, earn money on a pen, or who can make huge money, would, according to some amendment adopted by the government, be able to avoid paying taxes that even these small entrepreneurs who cross six million cannot avoid. Let me ask you, if a small entrepreneur is involved in the production of cattle, on the sales of six million, his profits are less than 5%, because the inputs in that traffic cost him six million and he makes very little money. If he deals with making copper items, his profit at six million is not even two or three percent of the total amount and costs him a lot of input and in future laws should value it, that the net income, at some rates, that we know what profession in entrepreneurship can in six million turnovers make a decent profit. Many in six million won't be able to make a minimum personal income, because the inputs are expensive, and the lawyers will only have a pen, a computer, a pen and paper or a subscription to the "Official Messenger" for judicial practice, because we didn't allow them to be released just on the basis of making money and being taxed, not paying taxes, let the sword of some justice arrive, so I would reward this with the gold medal of the U.S.S. in Kragujevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17752	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17753	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, the only thing that must not come out of this session of the Republic of Serbia Assembly as a message to citizens is that we are making confrontation and class confrontation and conflicting layers among layers, because both lawyers and dentists and owners of marketing agencies are only citizens, and tax justice must be equal for all. Given that in this sense we are all equal before the law and the Constitution, then I will go from what my esteemed colleague Misa Petronijevic said and I will point out some facts, which I believe are essential here. It is true that taxpayers are ranked according to their economic power, i.e. economic power, and that actual incomes should be taxed. However, it is also true that there should be some facts that cannot be doubted and which make this law more effective if the preparation for the adoption of these laws is made more effective. What am I going to come from? First of all, the bar fees that are regulated by law. Let us not fellow MPs forget that the Assembly has just passed a legal framework for the tariff system by which the fees of lawyers are charged. Given the fact that this tariff today is astronomically high, I'm afraid that without previously established mechanisms, we're going to push lawyers and citizens into the gray economy. Why? For the simple reason that a citizen who does not pay 20 or 30,000 dinars for a particular legal store, which is within the scope of a legal service, is in a position to make a deal with a lawyer. That income won't be made out anywhere. They'll get into the gray streams. Grey streams are being entered by citizens and lawyers, not to mention dentists. On the other hand, there's something that the lawyers have just presented here as a fact, which is that those who have a small economic power, a small economic power, are unable to collect their claims. Of course, dear ministers, this does not go in the spirit of what is being imposed here as a basic principle, which is tax justice, but it goes in the spirit of something that I think should be considered. If there is already a limit for lawyers who will be taxed on a scale of up to three million, or up to six million, the question arises, why would those who, as we have said here, have no income under that principle of tax justice be exempt from any obligation? Let's keep them flat-rate, keep them in the domain of that taxation they've had until then, because through flat-rate taxation, the budget will be filled. Those who opt for books, and in the end, I don't see here at all the need to impose so much and affirm the story of whether or not books will be kept, it's a completely peripheral fact. He who defines himself to be guided by them shall guide them, whoever is bound by law, or whom the law obliges, and that is not disputed. The only question is whether this economic power, as a parameter, can allow that circle of lawyers, dentists, agency owners, etc. remains flatly taxed as security of the budget that exactly of these revenues will the budget be filled in? It is not disputed that all those who have economic power have an obligation to pay even more. What has indeed been affirmative is the fact that both on the Committee on Law and Constitutional Affairs, this topic which has experienced a different epilogue compared to the epilogue that was on the Committee on Economic Affairs and Finance. This discussion of mine is just a contribution to really experiencing that tax justice in the way we should experience it, which is that in the right sense we are all equal in front of the Constitution. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17754	The People's Messenger Vladimir Ilic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17755	Dear colleagues, I really don't remember that one amendment with which time has been defended with more passion and less arguments. But once we've scratched a little bit into the surface, we'll realize it's logical. I think lawyers in Serbia should be proud of their fellow Members in the Assembly today, because truly, frankly, they defend their interests and it is not at all controversial for me, I fully understand. As MPs, however, we are primarily here to defend the interests of citizens. If the Constitution tells us that we are all equal before the law, then we all need the same way to pay that tax. Some of the comparisons we've heard here don't exactly stand. If someone wants to protect a lawyer in some small place in southern Serbia, which apparently, and I agree, there's no business or traffic, and of course, under this law, they won't pay any taxes, why don't we protect some little salesman from Major, Lebanese or some barman? Why is he in a more favourable position? They're classified in the same plane. The job of a lawyer and a doctor is essentially difficult and ungrateful, I honestly think. Hard and ungrateful for a simple reason, because they earn, mostly, someone else's torment and misfortune. We talk to the doctor when we're sick, we're looking for a lawyer when we break the law or the state accuses us of breaking the law. You know how, when people are in need, then it's very problematic how to charge for your service. I guess lawyers know how to solve that problem. I'm asking an open question, what will lawyers do when an investigation into the origin of the property begins, is announced by the government and cross-evaluation. Whether they will be able to justify their property with paid taxes and incomes, i.e. the revenues they have shown. I believe a large number of lawyers will find themselves in trouble, first of all because of that law. This law won't hurt anyone. Let's say once again, this law says that a lawyer registers his incomes and expenses, that is, costs and, unlike paying 10%, which is not really a big tax and is no problem. If there is no income, there will be no tax or pay, but there will be problems on this other side, and that is why it is better to enter into taxation both according to economic strength and real income. Otherwise, why would they take them away? If I were a lawyer today, believe me, I would abstain from the discussion because I would be subjective probably, like most colleagues who are lawyers. I respect that, I believe that lawyers now across Serbia, I don't know, are simply proud of you, because they know how hard their jobs are and how much they really earn and how much they really pay taxes. Well, well. It's far more familiar to them than we do, but so the state doesn't wander around and explore how much they really earn, it invites them to actually report their incomes and according to these salaries and taxes. Now, this is really my modest contribution to this discussion, and I think and can't wait for the day to vote, because it will finally erase the borders between the opposition and the position, at least around this amendment, and we will see together and Serbia's citizens whether this amendment will pass or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17756	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17757	Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I handed over, signed and wrote such an amendment on behalf of the SNS Group, I didn't know it would cause this much controversy among us here in Parliament, but also in the Serbian public. And even if I had known, I would have put up with it again and again, all the arguments I spoke about a little earlier for some daily newspapers and some electronic media and in front of the citizens, because our motives for submitting this amendment are extremely sincere, extremely well-intentioned. I very much respect what Mr Dinkic said and the attitudes that he represents about creating a fairer tax system. Many times I've told my expert training in this conference so far. I'm not a lawyer, I'm not a lawyer, I'm not a doctor. I don't have any lawyers, I don't have any lawyers, I don't have any lawyers, I don't have any lawyers. I don't have any lawyers. I don't have any lawyers. I don't have any lawyers. I had a late uncle who was a famous neuropsychiatist and a brother who is a doctor and lives in America. Nobody talked to me about it. No one has motivated me on this side that is imputing to the SNS and myself personally, and I am prepared here in front of you and the Serbian public, who is now following this, to put my political career and my political future on the table and if someone says and proves that in any way he has motivated me, me or my party that I represent, I am prepared to resign as a member of the People's Parliament and to withdraw from politics. On the other hand, I'm proud of people who are MPs, people who are members of the SNS, and doctors are. Is it Dr. Poscurica, or Dr. Knezevic, or Dr. Mijatovic, or are they lawyers, such as the Government, and Dragan, and Biljana Pantic, I am proud of my associates, my colleagues who are from these dams. Now, let's get to the amendment and which is why it's filed and which is why it only applies to lawyers and health care professionals in private practice. He used to say nice things to a colleague so he wouldn't make people feel good. He's making them go to the lawyer and the dentist and the doctor. Any increase in the cost of doing business, whether through keeping books, whether through an increased tax, I am not sure or I am almost convinced that this increase in the price and cost of the business of dentists, doctors and lawyers, through the prices of services they provide to Serbian citizens, will be passed on to Serbian citizens. I'm not sure that the distinguished colleagues sitting here in this House, and lawyers are and I can now, I don't want to call them out, so I don't challenge them to say no, we're not going to, but we're going to keep all of these high prices and increased government burdens, and we're going to keep it to ourselves from our incomes to pay for it. I'm not sure, and I didn't want the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, to personally be responsible for the fact that tomorrow's tooth extraction will be 1200 dinars compared to 1,000 dinars, as far as it is now, say. What mechanisms does the government have to regulate these prices? They don't exist. The State must not engage in the market and should not use those mechanisms. How can we tell a lawyer – no, do not increase prices? To whom will the people who go to the lawyers be angry, because they are tormented, and he says, "Well, so far, the price of the complaint has been 2,000 dinars, but now it is 2500 dinars, because the state has given us greater burdens?" We can turn our heads the other way, but that's how it's gonna be. That is why this amendment applies only to lawyers, health care professionals in private practice, whether they are doctors, whether they are dentists, because we think that they would be just a flow water heater, and that all of them will be imposed, new imposes, different, changed, along with... Mr. Dinkic, I respect everything you've been saying about tax justice, and I think it should be supported in that way and that it should continue that way, but I'm not sure if it'll be just a flow water heater for citizens, i.e. consumable services of doctors, lawyers, dentists. What's the mechanism? If you convince me now that there's a mechanism that you're going to make sure there's not going to be a purchase of those services, okay, but that mechanism doesn't exist. The state can't interfere with the market. That's why we didn't modify the marketing agencies, the audit agencies, the accounting agencies, everything you've announced and these amendments to the law that they can't be in the pausal system, because citizens don't go to the marketing agency. Believe me, I have more friends of the owner of marketing agencies than I have a friend of the dentist. That's what my teeth say. I don't often go to a dentist, I'm afraid. That's why I'm calling you, and here I think there's at least a policy, the most practical one. The desire is for everyone in this room, I'm sure, both the Government and us, the MPs, that there are no new charges directly on the citizens. If that cost was to be spent on lawyers, dentists and doctors, all right, but if it spills over to the users of their services, if it spills over to the citizens, I'm not up for it. The Serbian Progressive Party is not for this, and that is why we have submitted this amendment and I believe that it will have a majority in this assembly, as it had a majority in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17758	Thank you. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17759	I also have a lot of friends among doctors, dentists, lawyers, and other professions. However, this attitude, which you have explained, sends only one message – we are not afraid of traders who are obliged to keep books and cannot be cobblers, we are not afraid of those who sell newspapers, we are not afraid of those who hold restaurants and cafes, and we are afraid of lawyers and we give them the right to lie and fake their business results. I can't accept that. So it's not a question of dignity. If one is opposed to showing the right situation in any profession’s business, it is given the right to counterfeit the situation. If someone can defend that today's average salary of a dentist in Belgrade is 28,000 net, lower, much lower than a teacher's salary, lower than the salary of a primary or secondary school, it cannot convince me that it is true and that it is justly assessed or that the salary of a lawyer is, I mention, one who has over 20 years of internships, 35,000 dinars. I mention once again, Serbia's average salary today is 45,000 dinars. We don't have the courage to put a profession where it belongs in terms of tax justice, we don't have the courage because, perhaps what my colleague Ilic said, we depend on doctors and dentists in some way, we don't go there because we're comfortable, but because we have to, if that's the reason, or we're afraid of protesting lawyers, they'll block the courts or I don't know what. We should say -- we're afraid of it, and that's why the amendments, not because it's just because it's fair, because by the system it's going to raise prices, so that's true for the whole tax system. What's the difference? Why don't somebody else raise the prices because it's not in the cobwebs... So, here's just the question is, are we ready to be honest, open, honest, fair in the tax sense equally or do we want to make exceptions? The question is why should we make exceptions to these professions and not make exceptions to everyone else? You should look into the truth, tell the truth, and of course it is up to you MPs to plead when this amendment comes. I think this amendment should be rejected, but if you vote otherwise, I will respect it as Minister of Finance, although I will continue to feel personally that it is deeply unfair.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17760	Mr. Chairman, I point to a violation of article 107. The Rules of Procedure, the speaker at the National Assembly session, is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Such words have been spoken here that are inappropriate for many other places, not for the highest home in the National Assembly. I'm asking you, Chairman, do we have government representatives in today's session? We still don't have one representing the government's position. We still have one who represents a personal position that is diametrically contrary to the government's position. In Article 164. The Rules of Procedure of the Government declare whether or not they accept it and the one representing the Government should speak about it, and the representative of the Board may possibly speak about what the Committee has concluded and whether at that point they have all been invited or not to be invited to be invited in accordance with Article 74. Rules of Procedure. It's obvious that the law itself has no analysis of the effects of the regulations that I pointed to in the principle debate. Otherwise, we could compromise on what incomes are, what will be achieved, and what will be achieved.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17761	Finish your breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17762	I'm trying. Look, I don't want to list all the members. I just said that this discussion practically violates dignity. The fact is that here today we had a proposal of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, and it is clear that the deputy director, whom the Government will choose on a proposal from the Minister, without a public competition, will find everything coldly clear, what are the revenues, what are the expenditures and taxes to define right.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17763	Time, Mr. Mikovic. I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been broken. I say we have a representative of the government in Minister Dinkic. Just because you won't accept it, that's your problem. Therefore, I consider the minister here to be a legitimate representative of the government. It's not even correct to talk about. On the other hand, I didn't see any offensive words. Obviously, the opposite of a lobby is in that sense whether someone will support this or that. Another thing I think is that both of them have made enough arguments under this amendment and that MPs have enough knowledge to vote on their conscience. Here you are, Mr. Mikovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17764	You see, according to Article 27, you said yourself here that this was a lobby. Believe me, I am a lawyer, but for the past few years, I've kept books, I've been a cobbler. It's no problem to keep books or be a cobweb, especially those who are better equipped with it, but it's much easier, it's much simpler and many lawyers are less cost if they don't have to hire a bookkeeper. In that sense, I have seen both positive and negative effects both. This can't be about the lobby. That's why I'm positing with you. It's a strong thing to talk about the lobby. It's about whether or not someone saw the situation and saw positive and negative effects. That's why I think Mr. Babic's amendment is absolutely fine. True, mine is identical, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17765	I apologize for the use of the word. I had no evil intentions. I accept your suggestion. The People's Messenger Vladimir Ilic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17766	Mr. Chairman, Article 103 is entitled to indicate a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I think you allow MPs to point to the same breach of the Rules of Procedure several times. It is outrageous even that an opposition MP defends the government from its minister, or a minister from the government. I just don't think that's appropriate. Once again, I understand and during this discussion and controversy I see that there is a polarisation that is not standard between the position and the opposition and that is not disputed. It is the Assembly that is gaining weight, and it is all your honor, to hold a session, and to honor all MPs that we finally have no unison opinions, that we are not divided into black and white parties, but we are polymising as true folk representatives. I'm really looking forward to voting day so we can all see who's right here together. To take advantage of the opportunity, Mr. Babic will not be angry... (Chairman: Mr. Ilich... . ) Mr Babiću, all taxes in this country are paid by the citizens of Serbia. Anyone with a tax burden will be paid by the citizens. That goes for every tax... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17767	I don't see what I've hurt the Rules of Procedure in, because you've repeated what I've said and we fully agree on the matter. So we can move on. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17768	I'm glad we got rid of all the doubt that there was no lobby and that your lobbys didn't affect... .
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17769	Please, Mr. Babic, is it a replica to the minister's presentation? Let's be clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17770	Yeah. No lobbies and no lobbies on SNS and me personally. Nice to meet you. Let's move on. I'll say it again - I agree there must be justice in this country and tax and any other justice. I didn't get the answer to my only clue. Just as I have not been offended, and I support what Mr Ilic said about parliamentary work, about debate, and that is what should be parliamentary life, and that is what we should be growing here. But I'm not saying, and I didn't represent, and we don't represent the idea of anyone being free from taxes. Lawyers and doctors have been paying taxes on a flat-rate basis so far. I've got fear, you haven't made a mechanism to make this increase on any basis not to be further shed on the citizens. If you make such a mechanism that the cost remains only the expense of law offices, only the private practice office, I will support such a proposal. Now I'm telling you in public. Because I think consumers are more vulnerable than lawyers and doctors themselves. This way nothing will be more spared, but that's the only way we're going to burden their users. Give me the mechanism to keep your expenses in that lawyer's office, stay in that medical office. I'll support him. If he's just gonna go through that office and jump into the customer's pocket of those services, I can't support it. That's why this amendment was submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17771	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17772	Here's an example, so I don't just talk about lawyers. For example, a dentist. If a dentist in Novi Sad actually earns a net of more than 25800 dinars a month, as foreseen by the current flat-rate taxation system, if the difference between his income and expenditure implies that his monthly personal income is 25,800 dinars, if he earns really more, he will pay more taxes than he pays today. The one who makes less money that I doubt anyone can have such a job and make less than this month, I just don't think they'd buy that kind of equipment. Do you know how much equipment costs, for example, dentists? Lawyers may not have much investment in fixed assets, which one MP used to say, but dentists certainly can't just open an office. They're supposed to buy all the equipment that's sophisticated and pay for it. It doesn't make sense that they can get paid at all if they make 25,000 dinars a month net. I don't know how many hundred years they'd pay off that equipment and then it's a nonprofit job and he wouldn't even get into it. What's for sure is that the bigger the income, which is this, if you'd raise the price, you'd have a higher income, you'd pay a bigger tax. But at the same price, he would only pay a real tax on the actual incomes he has, and not at present estimated, and he does not counterfeit anything, not forger because the system in law gave him that he could pay on this flat-rate, or estimated. We're just asking for this system to change and pay for actual income, for real expenses. What's left for him to pay his taxes. We're not looking for anything else. We're not implying anything else here but elemental justice that, doubting that this is well measured and that this is a good system, we just want everyone to show how much they really earn, and that they can do that if they keep books and on the difference between income and expenditure to pay the actual tax. That's how we sort of put ourselves in the same rank and this kind of entrepreneur with those entrepreneurs who are already obliged to keep books. It is a system of justice. We leave only professions for which no high qualification is required. You don't have to finish college to be a shoemaker or a tinman or to be a carpenter. You can do it without school and with primary school if you have a craft in your hands. They don't have to keep books, they're flat-out, except for those who have traffic over eight million dinars, which are then in the VAT system. Still, those who are dentists, you have to graduate college to be a dentist. You can't be a lawyer without college. It's time for these professions to be in the same tax treatment system as those other bookkeepers. The fact is that the current tax status does not correspond to the tax force of these taxpayers, on average. If there's an exception to the average, this law will be more favourable to him, because then he'll pay less, which I doubt. I doubt anyone makes less than this in even smaller places, let alone Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17773	MP Zoran Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17774	I thank you for the opportunity for the replica, although Mr. Secretary was very thoughtful, he didn't mention it, he didn't give a chance for a replica. There is one saying in Serbia, such as talking to deaf phones – everyone tells their own story. I think what Mr Dinkic said absolutely supports it, but again, as this amendment has passed in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as I believe it will pass here in parliament, you are working on it and give us only a mechanism to keep your expenses in those offices. Just give us a guarantee that the prices of their services won't increase. In this way we do not know, with all due respect to what you have now said and justice and to make it better and everything, we absolutely agree, but just don't use us as a front and government and assembly, so to say, they have imposed something on us, or something that is both real and not real, to increase the price of services in this way. You have to admit that there's a possibility for such a thing, there's a reality and there's no way that the state can prevent such a thing. One more thing I'm going to ask you, when it comes to SNS, you can say and say all sorts of things about us, but just don't lack courage. That really doesn't stand. I think that by strong participation in this government of the Republic of Serbia, the measures we have taken, especially in the fight against corruption and crime, we have shown that we have a lot of both will and quality and courage and knowledge. Please, with all the facts you've said and agreed with them, just give the mechanism to keep your new expenses to the lawyers, not the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17775	National MP Srdjan Mikovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17776	As regards Articles 27 and 32. The Rules of Procedure, as well as the Art. 167, 153 and 151. Rules of Procedure. What's this about? We get new information from hour to hour, in the discussion of the government, who speaks against what the government concludes, we get new information that was not in the context of the bill's proposal as part of an analysis of the current situation or possibly an analysis of the effects of the regulations. That's what I've been pointing to, and here it is now being confirmed, that the practical arguments are being kept. All this is given is, let's quickly follow the urgent procedure of Article 167, and all that argument that the minister is now directly saying, which is not written, so that we can check every single piece of information whether it's correct or not, so that we can talk about it? Obviously, that puts us in an awkward situation as MPs, because apparently all this information is not being placed here, on the side that says otherwise to the government's position.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17777	I have to admit, I didn't understand what the Rules of Procedure was injuring you at all. You don't have to explain. I'll take it I didn't get you, but I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been hurt. You can plead if you want, since I didn't understand. (Srdjan Mikovic, from the post: I will not because of you. All right. (Vladimir Ilic, from the post: Replication to the presentation of MP Zoran Babic. ) First, the People's MP Slavica Saviljić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17778	If I'd known, I'd have given up. I'm just going to formally appeal to the 107th Dignity of the Assembly. We have not yet reached Mr. Babic's amendment. We're talking about an amendment that's similar and the government hasn't accepted, and I'm asking you to come back. I also ask you to give a replica to the president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17779	I don't even understand what I hurt the Rules of Procedure when people report for the amendment. National MP Vladimir Ilic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17780	Here, fellow Babic, since you are upset about the citizens of Serbia, there will be no increase in the price of legal services. I'll explain in 15, 20 seconds. As far as I'm concerned, and perhaps I'm wrong, the bar of attorneys determines the tariff. That's one. Under two, even if this challenges any cost, the tax is paid on the difference between income and expenditure, so it cannot in any way burden the citizens of Serbia. If we worry about whether it will burden the citizens of Serbia, which we would not worry about whether the same treatment will take place with a coffee maker or with merchants in the same way. I understand exactly what this is all about tonight. Simply, lawyers don't want to pay taxes according to what they make. Here's one piece of information for you, all exclusive, he's public. The first 50 in Serbia with the highest earnings are 20 lawyers. Here, look, you have a website, an annual income tax for citizens. In every town, the richest people are lawyers, and it's always been like that, and I have nothing against it. They're doing their job with honor, probably making that money. I don't see any problem with them paying for what they've earned, as everyone else would, the Constitution tells us to be equal in front of the law. I don't see any reason why they'd be an exception. Just a few more seconds. When we introduced fiscal cash registers, I was brought into Belgrade's Chamber of Commerce by 150 coffeemakers, attacking me, wanting to lynch me and say -- no music dinar, no this can't, can't do that. I took the paper with me and I read them their annual traffic. Three thousand dinars of annual coffee shop traffic in Belgrade, 15,000, 20,000, their monthly electricity bill was higher than what they reported in a year. Let's be a serious state and pay taxes, not avoid paying taxes with such excuses that are pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17781	Time. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Srdjan Mikovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17782	You can't tell lies in this high house, Article 107. Because it is the bill that introduces the exception, and the amendment excludes the exception. (President: Mr. Mikovic, haven't I heard what member you've advertised? ) Article 107. Rules of Procedure, you have to tell the truth. Obviously, there's no truth being told here. It is true that the bill introduces an exception, for lawyers, for doctors, for dentists, etc. And not just for lawyers, for all who do legal work. Everyone else has the right to take a shower. They don't have the right to take a shower. It's a twisting story.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17783	Gentlemen, please calm down. This doesn't lead to anything. From now on, I'll start punishing. How did I abuse the Rules of Procedure because someone made a lie? Please don't. Am I supposed to be adjudicating whether someone's telling the truth or not? It's mine to take care of the session. Please stop this discussion. You've been talking about one amendment for two and a half hours. I think you've gone too far. I said one word, I took it back, and now you're going to prove me wrong. I now conclude that I was right. Why is one such amendment that you searched along and across now the same story is being told? We're finishing the debate under this amendment and I'm not allowing any more words. We're moving on to the next amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic and joint MPs Natasa Vukovic and Nenad Konstantinovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17784	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, unfortunately, is not the end. As you yourself have read, the amendment in the same text as counterpart Babic from the SNS, as tabled by DSS LDP counterparts, was also submitted by DS MPs. But I don't think we've touched two or three very important topics during this debate. The first is what the minister has now confirmed to us, that only free professions are being attacked, that such a proposal by Minister Dinkic has given us are being attacked by highly educated in this country, by doctors, dentists, lawyers. So, thousands of people who graduate from law school, medical school, dental school and can't get a job in the public service, can't get a job as dentists in health homes because there's no room, and I don't know if the minister knows how many unemployed dentists, how many unemployed doctors are there, where they're going to work? Those who dare, bravest, try to open their own private practice. Opening private practice is neither easy nor easy to survive in private practice. You are now making it difficult for all those who want to start their own business and who are free professions. You're making discrimination and discrimination is that everyone in this country can have the right to a flat tax, and now you're making an exception here and you're changing the thesis, you're twisting. You say the amendment introduces an exception. That's not true. Your bill excludes doctors, dentists, lawyers and others, and those who do construction work, those who are masters, can do private kitchens around Belgrade and earn far more than an average lawyer, he can have a flatary right to tax, and these professions are abolished. Why are you shutting down? (President: Time.) ) There is no reason to hitchhike private practice and to send a message to the highly educated that they will have nowhere to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17785	The word has Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17786	You're replacing thesis. This does not apply to lawyers, dentists, but to the owners of offices and to those who own law offices. Employee lawyers, lawyers, dentists, they're not the subject of this law at all. They're as busy as anybody who works at some firm. Don't overdo it. It's not every guy who graduates from dental school who owns a dental office. Not everyone can buy that equipment. Not everyone can own a law firm. It is an honor to those who are able to do so, but not everyone who graduates from dental school or law school automatically and owners, or entrepreneurs. This is a law that treats entrepreneurship. We simply want that if the independent professions, i.e. the owners of these institutions, are treated in the same way as the owners of some others who are obliged to keep books, because they are able to do so and pay taxes on the real value of their income, that is, what remains of them when they take away expenses. This means that a dentist is treated as an expense by an investment in equipment and he will not pay taxes, but rather, from income, he is subtracting costs for material, costs for equipment, and only if something remains, to that difference he pays a 10% tax. The same goes for lawyers. Lawyers have expenses, they take away expenses, they pay 10% difference. I agree with everyone who said there's no reason to raise a tone around this topic or to go with some heat. The fact is that we just want to put into the same level of owners, entrepreneurs in Serbia, who are able to run business books and show and pay taxes on real revenue. There's justice complete. For those who have no income will not pay taxes, those who have more, they will pay much more than they are today. We believe that this way of flat-rate taxation for these professions is wrong and unfair. That's why we want to change that, and that's the purpose of the law. One more important thing I've never said in an argument before. If anyone thinks I'm doing this as finance minister to fill the republican register, they're making a terrible mistake. These are all local self-government revenues. This is what I do and I propose on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, with my colleagues, for the sake of tax justice. Because the full income from self-employed work is the arrival of municipalities and cities, not the Republic. That's what you should know.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17787	Replica, Nenad Constantinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17788	It's clear to me now that you don't really know much about this subject. First, he can't hire another lawyer. Don't give up any more false information. He can't hire another lawyer. We're entrepreneurs. We're not D.O.O., never by law was allowed to be D.O.O. We're talking about entrepreneurs. The second thing, the basis of 51,000 dinars for taxes and contributions for lawyers in Belgrade. Check it out. Check how much they pay 40,000 dinars a month of taxes and contributions. That's 400 euros, that's 5,000 euros a year. If we move on to books and books are mandatory, everyone will have the bookkeeper's expense. The cost is not 20 and 30 euros, even if it is not in Belgrade. You can't find an accountant under a hundred euros to run your books. You take people 1,200 euros a year out of your pocket. They can't keep books on their own, and they'll come to pay less taxes than they pay now and the Administration of Revenue and local self-government will collect less income. You said yourself here, there are examples of keeping books and having zero. So why do they have a zero? Because they have no job, and they have no job because there are 3,700 lawyers in Belgrade. Do you really think 3,700 lawyers can make millions? They make big money 10, 15, 20, 30, 50 offices, and these offices don't pay flat tax, they're also in the VAT system or book water. You're endangering the little ones, you're jeopardizing those who first want to start law practice, with medical practice, with dental practice. Who's going to open an attorney's office after a college degree and a law exam, if he has to pay the accountant, if you're making his tax system difficult?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17789	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17790	Why don't you ask the same question for those who own the restaurant, the store big and small? What are those guys gonna do when school's done with that job? Why can't they keep books and these can't? Explain to me - how can we explain what you claim to be particularly difficult for lawyers, and it is not difficult for people who work in a store? Isn't it hard for people who own restaurants and cafes and aren't hard for people who hold real estate agencies? What are they more capable of than lawyers? Come on, don't overdo it. So it's just that one part of the lawyer's layer wants to protect itself and enables him to continue to pay unreally low income tax. So this isn't about fighting for so-called lawyers in small towns, in Surdulica, in Žitoraj, or I don't know Major. Anyway, this is about someone wanting to make it possible for those lawyers who make more than 35,000 dinars a month, if they're top-notch in Belgrade, which is the fact that they make more money, to stay on this low flat tax, not to pay anymore, or to have an illusion of respect for the law, because they now respect the law. How do they respect him? By giving them an unreal way of taxing, a flat tax. Turns out they respect the law, and now those who keep books have to get by if they want to avoid it. No one's going to chase a counterfeiting lawyer, because he pays a flat tax, and these are all going to be chased from the tax police to everyone else. That's not fair. That's all I'm saying, and I want to put into the same status of taxpayers potentially similar to the tax force.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17791	Thank you. The order of speakers is Srdjan Spasojevic, Milorad Nikolic, Marijan Risticevic and Vladimir Ilic. Srdjan Mikovic according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17792	It's about my amendment. According to the Rules of Procedure, because I consider the article 107 to be injured, because the opinion and attitudes of the person who submitted the amendment are interpreted. What does that look like? It's about the amendment I've made and Mr. Minister's interpretation of what I wanted. Does that make sense? I don't think it makes sense. If you broke up because the vice president told you to stop, I'm finishing the discussion so I don't accidentally argue with the vice president.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17793	The word is Nenad Constantinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17794	Chairman, he can't be in the Council of Ministers' last. I guess the MPs have the right to answer. Minister Dinkic, you're wrong. We've asked for various amendments to wipe out an entire member, not only for doctors and lawyers but also for other professions. You didn't want it, and you refused that amendment, and the government accepted this amendment. You keep telling the contrary to what the government has decided that you should represent at this session. You will agree that this is the first time in the history of a multi-party system in Serbia that the minister does not represent the government's views, and has come to defend the government's report. The government report says this amendment is accepted. It seems to me, since you keep mentioning lawyers, it's here that the desire to put lawyers in some way is under control. If they have to run books, there won't be a tax higher, and then your IRS officers can come into control of those books. If some lawyers are insubordination or represent against the state or defend someone against the state, then the state is there to enter and review their books. I'm sure there will be selective control and will come into control of those who are conflicting with the state, and those who do not conflict will not. Lawyership is a free profession and it's always been. Lawyership is defined in the Constitution as a special act. A citizen can't defend himself in court. He has to get a lawyer because the defense is mandatory. It's not an arbitrary matter whether you hire a lawyer or not. Apropo those insufferable comments about the great barrister's tariff to answer you. There is no lawyer in Serbia who can charge for the bar fees. Look and ask in your places if citizens can pay for one store of 20, 30 or 50,000 dinars. Talk to dentists and doctors and lawyers, and you'll see what the reality is.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17795	Time. Minister Dinkic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17796	Your argument, as you called it, o so-called. the need for control of the so-called Insubordination lawyers are at least inconclusive. If that's what we suggested for dentists, what are you saying, that the state introduces that dentists should pay taxes according to their actual income to control some insubordinate dentists? Come on, please. We just want to put everything in the same treatment. Also, no one slows down the freedom of the law profession. We don't want to limit anyone's freedom or any other profession. But we want them to pay taxes, not to avoid them in a legal way, because the law, by bad means, allows them to do so now. It's the only thing we want. The freedom to, but don't make a whole system of comedy, in a way, and let's say -- yes, attorney power is the monthly income on average of 30,000 dinars per month, which is lower than the average salary in Serbia. No one can convince me, whoever it is, that these professions earn below Serbia's average and almost 30%. If 45,000 is the average salary, is that an implication of what they pay the tax on? One more thing, I wouldn't say about this if the Assembly Committee on Finance had accepted the amendment. Since he did not accept it, I am speaking in my desire to convince the MPs that this amendment should not be accepted, because it is illogical and unfair.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17797	Next reported is MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17798	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, respecting all the discussions and constructive discussion that differs in some things, however, I would like to point out some of the things that Mr. Minister and certain fellow public opinion should know. No profession can be measured by ten or twenty successful. They are also foreseen by the current law, and you can see how we can get their data, that they work extremely well together, and that means they're bound by bookkeeping, and that's why they can be traced. There's a lot of young lawyers. I'll speak for the bar because I belong to a law firm and I'm a member of the Chamber. There are a lot of young people who when they finish law school, when they pass a judicial exam, do it somewhere, and then get involved in the waters of the lawyers, or they can't all be elected to the prosecution and the judiciary and eventually have to open up because they have nothing to live on. Believe me, I speak for the King, surely I know the mass of young men who can barely end the end. At this point I speak for them, not for those five, six or seven lawyers in every city who are better standing. There are certain problems here, Mr. Minister, and I'd like to point to them. How is a lawyer going to seduce a defense book on official duty when that official duty is paid to him after three or four years? When will there be that lawyer's income and on what grounds will he pay his taxes? I want the citizens of Serbia to know and that, and I want to protect our profession, however, in order that even now, according to official duty, not to be applied full tariff, but to be broken, and there was a year when the lawyers accepted even 10% to defend themselves on official duty. So I want to point out that there are a number of technical problems. I also want to point out that lawyerry is not any profession we're talking about, because one shop, one kiosk won't open at night and in a day's time if someone needs something, but very often a lawyer will be invited by the Ministry of the Interior and in two and three nights to go to attend a defense, because the process can't take place without his presence or any investigative authority. For this service very often will not be adequately rewarded. First the tariff will be divided in half, then paid in three or four years. So I want to point out that there are a number of technical reasons that make it impossible for a lawyer to make his real income that he can't, because it's not a classic market, if something pays for you in three or four years, and maybe never. There's also a problem with the power of attorney. We lawyers know that you are due within a month to cancel your power of attorney, so if in any way this power of attorney doesn't happen, you still have to show up, and very often parties in such situations don't pay lawyers, and they show up in court. What are we gonna do about it? Are we going to contribute and seduce into books, some income we didn't have, and then show something that wasn't done at all and pay taxes in that way? So, with these things, I'm sure there are arguments that speak in favor of this. I was just about to support Mr Babic's amendment, which is mostly reliant and which spoke about citizens of Serbia who will pay bigger services. The citizens of Serbia, and I have said this many times in the past term in this House, are very burdened when they want to do some justice, because they are huge court fees, they are huge fees for skills, and only in the end can we talk about some fees for law enforcement. Therefore, with all these increases, which Mr Babic also talked about, through court fees, through skills and through many other things, were primarily damaged by Serbian citizens and must be taken into account. In that name, I wanted to say a few details. There were words here that both the doctor and the lawyer only go now when the pain is forced. Not only are lawyers, lawyers are involved in litigation and litigation, administrative procedure, legal advice, and very often a contractual bargaining relationship or other matters. So we can't talk about the party showing up at a lawyer's house just when he's sick, because there are positive things -- when someone's doing a sales contract or something, and that's something nice that happens to a man. So it doesn't take such a perception to pretend -- that lawyers just show up when the law breaks. I'm afraid some discussions here still want a profession, which is an integral part of the judicial system, to make lawyers want to abuse something. Believe me, I know very little or I don't know people like that who want to do something like that. So, once again, those who make a very good living, there's a limit to them, they keep books, but they don't need people who are objectively in some situations, especially young people who are going to go into law school, to be burdened with these things, which are sure to keep them from developing their jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17799	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Miodrag Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17800	Dear colleagues, respected ministers, to plead immediately at the beginning that I would reject this amendment, I will vote against, I will support Minister Dinkic, although I often disagree with him, as I did not agree to submit 15 amendments. To remind myself, we have sworn here as MPs that we will work according to the Constitution and in the interests of the people. In this context, I will speak, and therefore I will refuse to, or support Minister Dinkic's proposal, not an amendment that supports what is not good for Serbia. What do we need? What do we have to do as MPs as number one, if we want a legal state, if we want a serious state, if we want a strong economic state? We need to contain bribery, corruption and crime. This is what the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, does, and we really need everyone to support him to endure it, because that's what the people want, that's what the businessmen want. I will give an example of how Turkey has become powerful and today is one of the richest countries in Europe. Last year she achieved a gross product of 12.5%. In 1982. Turkey was in a difficult situation, perhaps similar to what Serbia is in today. But thanks to a man named Ozar Turgao, who introduced order, work, good projects, programmes and national projects, Turkey today is powerful and strong. What do we stand for and what do we have to stand for? We've got to stand up for it to contain the work on black. That's what all serious businessmen, entrepreneurs, peasants, whatever they're called, those who make fair money on their bread, stand up for it. Then I'm surprised that this big lobby and this strong lobby in the Assembly defends the position and the poor lawyer's position, almost makes me cry. If they kept going like this, I'd start crying. I wanted to ask you, before I leave the Assembly, to ask if we should collect humanitarian aid for lawyers? I'll show you something, Mr. Minister. You're absolutely right, but obviously you don't have enough information. Here's my case, one A4 paper, one lawsuit, or defense on A4 paper. I'll read the bar fees. The list of reviews, according to tariff - 15,000, one constructive meeting – 20,000, second constructive meeting – 20,000, repeat procedure – 25,000, forming criminal application – 25,000. So 105,000 on A4 paper. Here's how bad they live and earn. No wonder, my fellow MPs who defend rights, and it is you who need to contribute to curbing the gray economy, to introduce order and work in the country, to strengthen our economy and economy as quickly as possible, and to step on our feet, not to whine and moan. We fight and advocate as businessmen and I as an industrialist for 28 years, or 38 years, including in Germany 12 years of work, and I want to see within as short a time as possible, not for more than a year, that the aggregate rate of taxes and contributions is below 68.5%. These are my amendments that I've submitted today, over 15. I'm sorry I wasn't there and I couldn't defend them, because I had to go to a funeral for a big business partner I've been working with for over 25 years, but I believe you're going to contribute to my amendments being passed, because they're only focused in the interest of strengthening the economy. I'm not really surprised, after all this, why no one will study for locksmiths, technicians, engineers, agronomists, etc., because these are interests where salaries of 25, 30, and 40,000 are, how much one lawyer takes in half of one letter of A4 or an account that I've been charged with one lawsuit. I don't really see anyone attacking that group of my colleagues' lawyers belong to the same group of businessmen. It's clear here that if under six and a half million people make their income, they're going to be cobwebs. Then what's the problem? I'm sorry, up to three million. Please, if a small barman can, if a small entrepreneur, who does any craft services, is waiting all day for someone to come to his shop, etc. to keep books and pay, until recently he had to lead the fiscal late, i.e. I think it was Minister Dinkic's mistake to lift these tills. At the beginning of yesterday's session, he demanded of us, or urged everyone to seek a fiscal bill, unfortunately, there you have violated the Constitution, one constitutional inequality you have made because you have freed entrepreneurs and medium-sized enterprises that generate income to 50 million that no longer have to run fiscal tills, and these fiscal tills have long since been paid by entrepreneurs and businessmen over 120 million euros. I think that should come back. Why? Because we have a large number of very unfair competition of imports of goods from China, which comes and customss as customs, so-so as that fiscal bill was typed, something was coming in as revenue from the budget, so I think that maybe we should... Here, I'm done. So, we have to, if we stop working on the black that goes beyond today, according to our records of the Business Rebirth Movement of Serbia and many other associations and real businessmen over 30%. I have to give you an example, please, I was the caller of a meeting in Jagodina. At that meeting, I invited the assistant ministers for work and social services, etc. The theme was "Preventive measures against injury, i.e. protection at work" etc. In my presentation, I merely stated that real businessmen are asking us from the Union of Serbian employers to urgently find a model of how to narrow down work on black, especially in the construction sector, where it makes unfair competition for real builders, etc. Believe it or not, that's why I paid 400,000 dinars, because the work inspectors I invited to attend the meeting recognized themselves and then accused me and sued me, and the court ruled that I would pay them some defamation. I brought out what they're carrying, what my employers were asking me to do to protect them from unfair competition. So, I will support you, not you, but the government and anyone who wants to be introduced to this country as soon as possible, the order, the work, the knowledge and the pledge to be valued, and everything else to be punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17801	Thank you. National MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17802	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wish we'd spent this much energy on other groups, not lawyers. Do you know that 320,000 people in Serbia over 65 have no pension, no income whatsoever? Do you know there are 500,000 social cases in Serbia receiving social benefits? Do you know that there are 500,000 people on the verge of social cases in Serbia? Do you know that there are 180,000 people who are cobayage employees who don't get paid? Do you know that two million people in Serbia live in misery? Do you know that our social product is smaller than the social product of one of the 50 German companies? Why don't we discuss it? We spend hours and hours discussing lawyers. Come on, gentlemen lawyers, tell me, my father is 1934 years old, he's got a agricultural landownership, he pays three million for a mineral fertilizer of two million, for a diesel million and a half dinar, for a variety of seeds a million and a half dinar, and only on that without the spare parts of the machinery, he goes over six million dinars, does my father have to run books and lawyers get released from it? Is that fair, is that a country of equal odds? Is there a farmer who is 79 years old who is not alone, who has tens of thousands in Serbia, is he supposed to keep books just because the re-promaterials cross the value of six million dinars without lawyers having to? Is this the state of justice, the social equality that we stand for. I don't think so. I think we've spent too much time on this. We should have seen counseling in this article. So please, Minister, listen carefully. Tax counseling is being charged here. I'm asking you how you're going to tax the counseling done by former regime officials? We are witnessing that certain officials of the former regime of the party of the former regime have said that they have bought certain assets abroad for 300,000 euros by earning that money by giving advice. It's undeclared activity because they were public officials at the same time. It's here, tax counseling. I'm asking you, how are you going to tax these public officials who have no open shop at all, just being members of the former regime and giving them the right to oppose the Law of Conflict of Interest, to consult, to earn 300,000 euros and buy an apartment in Vienna? I ask you, how are you going to tax them since the residents of the Serbian state were even presidents of the municipalities and officials of the former regime, that means they lived in this country, that they were subject to that tax. To pay taxes on property, to pay taxes on the income of citizens, but since they didn't have a registered store to provide such services, I ask you ministers – how you're going to tax people from the party of the former regime who were obviously in some magical ways advisors somewhere in the white world, the residents of this country, they made money there, they were going to pay taxes on advisory services and they didn't do it, so they bought the property. I'm asking you how you're going to tax them on that kind of property on an apartment in Vienna that costs 300,000 euros? Can those who belonged to the former regime still do anything? To avoid all these taxes, let's say a 75-year-old farmer, 79-year-old farmer, my father and his likes have to keep books because their traffic is due to expensive herbicites, leases, etc., over $16 million. Is that fair? What are you going to do with the advisors of the former regime who charged their advisory services fatly? Who became richer than the tycoon? Who cooperated with the tycoons and saw how beautiful they became tycoons themselves. How are you going to tax their real estate abroad? How are you going to tax them some consulting services of counseling that they had no right to by law? That's what I'm asking you, and you're talking to lawyers more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17803	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 23rd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Mikovic by the Rules of Procedure? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17804	Article 27 has been injured in relation to Article 158, paragraph 9. Paragraph 9 of Article 158 states: "If several amendments have been tabled to the same article of the bill in the same text on these amendments, they will be decided as one amendment." In front of me are page 18, 19 reminders of the National Assembly, that's what all the presidents of the parliamentary groups get, turns out to be an absolutely identical amendment. The fact is that Mr. Babic's amendment was accepted by the government. The fact that my amendment didn't accept. It was supposed to be the same decision. It was also up to the Committee to decide on each other, the truth that I did not get a call for that committee, but here I am now to resolve this dilemma, and at this moment I am withdrawing my amendment to Article 23 to remain in the procedure of only Mr Babic's amendment, which is identical to mine. So if you were afraid to vote because the opposition proposed an identical amendment as Mr. Babic, here's my amendment I withdraw and enter it in the record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17805	Thank you, Mr. Mikovic, but I'll remind you that the debate on your amendment has passed, so I don't know what it means to pull it now. But if you want to take it freely, pull it out. I want to tell you that you could have done it sooner. As for your suggestions on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I must tell you, it was, indeed, the government pleaded negatively on your amendment, and positively on Mr Babic's amendment, so we had to do this. It's simple, I'm sorry, but that's the procedure. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment are joint mid-day MPs Dr Nenad Popović, Bojana Bozanić and Gorica Gajic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, the People's Ambassador Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17806	Thank you, Chairman. I'm not really going to be here about lawyers, dentists etc., it's just that my colleague Mikovic gave me great cream, it's really fascinating, it's not about the minister himself, but at all, what it's like to accept amendments, not only who are the same people from the ruling majority, I'm glad about my colleague Babic, I don't mind, but that those who are essentially the same that they don't accept. Not to mention the ones that are exactly the same. It's so interesting and it happens all the time. I don't know what that's about. We're splitting up some opposition again and into some position. And, of course, in addition to these amendments, it is now insignificant here, the essence is important for the people who represent these amendments and defend them from accepting it. But it's being transmitted to all other areas. We're transferring to funding projects from local self-government, I'm talking about profit revenues, I'm talking about their local budgets, on the one hand that we're cutting in line, it's got to tighten the belt, I've already talked about it. On the other hand, we have competitions where opposition municipalities can't win anything. Very difficult. Same thing, totally transmitted. So it's important if any position he gets, if he's in opposition, there's almost nothing. I'm really sorry, although it may have complete project documentation, although this project is of some importance, it has a cross-border effect, for example. to protect the environment or something. So I think it's really bad. That we have to have better criteria that we have to have an expert evaluation of certain projects. I have examples that some municipalities have locations for these mini hydro power plants, they were not respected at any time or on the list, when they could report to investors for certain locations. We have different cases where we couldn't get from the Ministry of Environmental Protection, on a completed project, complete project documentation... (President: Time. I will no longer appear after the next amendment, another 15 seconds, we didn't get consent, probably just because the municipality is from the opposition. I believe that all such municipalities that are the opposition have similar problems. It was really done that way in the previous period, during the previous regime, I really wouldn't want that kind of thing to go on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17807	Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17808	I want, on the contrary, to reassure you, and to tell you that we are absolutely equally looking at all municipalities independent of who is in them in power, aware of the fact that at one point they are in the power of one party, and in the other, somewhere longer, somewhere shorter, but nevertheless, we are interested in Serbian citizens having a gain from the government. I'll set an example for your community. In the municipality of Chatin, I do not know how much we have already invested in recent years, related to tourism, to Tornik, for what infrastructure is like we invested on Kopalnik, the Old Mountain, we do not see who is in which municipality in power. The last example, one of the last investors with which the investment was concluded, came to Rumu, and there is not the mayor of the ruling coalition but from the DS, and we brought an investor who is branded as "Guci", "Puma", and Eve Saint Laurent, the Brioni suit, and it's about Ruma, and we absolutely don't choose who is in power, but simply where there's some interest to invest and invest, and where there's national interest, it's important. A team to clarify this dilemma about the non-acceptation of Mr. Mikovic's amendments and the acceptance of Mr. Babic's amendments. The truth works, the Ministry of Finance and one and the other amendment refused, and it refused all amendments that were on the subject of giving privileges to special groupings, lawyers, doctors, dentists, compared to these others, and then, I was doing, indeed, fair approach, told the Government that this is the position of the Ministry of Finance, but that I want, in view and the amendment that has arrived, not only from the ruling coalition, but from opposition waists, some government itself decided that it wanted to declare itself. And the government said, without my vote, I didn't vote. She has pleaded to accept Mr Babic's amendment, but only for technical reasons is it not harmonised then, because automatically, it is known when one is accepted, then the others must be accepted in the same text. Why didn't this happen, because there was a situation that on the Committee on Finance and Economy this position of the Government in this case, although it was against mine, did not support the Assembly Committee on Finance and Economy, so it was up to you MPs to plead in the day of the vote. I think the debate on this amendment was truly and alive and fruitful with a lot of arguments, and it remains for you to give the final word when there is a vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17809	Bojana Bozanic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17810	The truth is, I haven't spoken directly to you about any of these problems that are mentioned and many local self-governments are coming. Of course, the investment was in the previous period, and we talked about it the other day, and that's great, we're very grateful, and we hope that it will continue, but as we say, "whom the snake bites and the lizard fears." Indeed, there was great discrimination in the previous period, specifically for our municipality by DS, we have these problems and I need to say that, and I think that the citizens of this discussion will remember the words in these three days the most – haughtiness, swelling of the skin from the back of the citizens and dragging their hands into the citizens' pocket. I don't think he'll remember anything else until the tax bills come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17811	The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vučković, Gorica Mojović, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojevic together submitted the 26th amendment. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vučković, Gorica Mojović, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojevic together submitted to the 27th amendment. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanović, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vučković, Gorica Mojović, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojevic, together with the MPs Dusan Petrovic, Miodrag Djidić, Sanja Cekovic, Milovan Marković, Bosko Ristic and Nebojsa Zelenovic, together submitted their amendments. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov and Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17812	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, this amendment has asked us to have the state authorities level with private firms on the cost of borrowing dinar bonds. Thus, it would allow other legal persons to issue dinar bonds, untaxed, whose debt price would be reduced because it is too large, too high anyway. On the other hand, the amendment is in favour of the dinarisation that everyone is talking about so much and I personally think that by transferring economic activity to dinars, it would reduce the exposure to foreign currency risk. What you wrote in the explanation that you refuse the amendment is really too much, and these are arguments that stand, but I still point out, that if such a legal solution remains in the text of the law, that is how private investors are discouraged to invest in the private sector, which today is in a much larger crisis, but in the public sector, and that is why I don't know if this is in the interest of what we want to achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17813	The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vuković, Gorica Mojović, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojevic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vucković, Gorica Mojović, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojjevic together submitted to the 32nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17814	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have tabled an amendment to Article 32 amending Article 72 of the basic text of the law. In fact, this article regulates what is not considered a capital gain or a capital loss and has five points in the list. In point 5, the obligor has carried out a transfer of rights, shares or charters of values that he had before the transfer in his possession continuously, for at least 10 years. We have made an amendment and we have suggested that this period be reduced to five years, because we believe that if someone is trading real estate for profit or if someone is trading securities of value on the stock market, for profit purposes, they will not wait five years to execute that turnover, because it is too long a period of time to tie up capital that does not turn and bring profit. We think it's enough five years to avoid taxing on capital gains after five years. We've come to this conclusion from both contact with the citizens and in the environments we come from. There are many examples where people bought an apartment or a house while they were working and could no longer bear the cost of living in that house or apartment, sold and bought something much less, of course, in the country. In villages in Vrsac municipality, houses can be purchased in a solid state for between two and eight thousand euros, which many have used and I can say that there has been an increase in the number of residents in populated areas, because of the difference they receive they return debts and live, so we believe that it is truly justified to cut the time limit to five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17815	Thank you. National MP Milica Radovic submitted to the 34th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a national MP, Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17816	With this amendment, I asked that the purchase price for the purpose of determining the capital gain be defined differently from the one provided for in the draft law. I believe that such a solution, which is provided for in our amendment, would eliminate potential abuses, which in this way exist as a possibility. Instead of one year, as provided for in the draft law, I foresaw five years as the range in which it would be determined, or the lowest price would be determined as relevant. What I wanted to write in the amendment might be best to explain by example. Let's say, for example, that the face took the investor and bought an action five years ago for a thousand dinars, he bought the same action for a thousand dinars, now five years after that, selling for 3,000 dinars. The lowest price in the last year, that same action, I'm talking about the Imlek action, was 2600 dinars, and the lowest price in the last five years was 1,000 dinars. What's more important to the state? Is the tax base of 2,000 dinars or the tax base of 400 dinars, as foreseen by your bill? Why did I say there was a great possibility of abuse? Because that investor who bought, the example works, that action, and he lost confirmation of buying that action, he can always use that possibility as an excuse. Of course, it's a commitment, that it would be a good idea that the stock market obligation is in a situation where a person has lost confirmation of the acquisition or purchase of that action, that it's a requirement for the stock market to deliver the same certificate, but I know it's the matter of the second law - the Capital Market Act, but since we're talking about a very important thing, I think you should have a little more understanding of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17817	Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Mihajlov and Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Žika Gojkovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a National MP, Zoran Kasalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17818	I thank the President-in-Office, and I will use the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the subject of this amendment - taxation of the winnings from gambling is already constant whenever we were able to discuss tax laws or amendments to the Law on the income tax of citizens, and this time in the debate we had, as far as I could count, three amendments. Among others, one of the amendments was mine, with a proposal for the non-taxable amount to be 26,600 dinars, as previously foreseen an untaxable amount. I withdrew this amendment from the debate, estimating what followed as a proposal from my colleague Ilic and the resolution of the Finance Committee. In particular, when it comes to this amendment, the idea of the amendment is therefore to tax large profits and thus to try to avoid a minimum taxation of small profits and eventually narrow down the circle for making games on happiness, i.e. create some preconditions for an even greater development of the grey market in this area. Of course, in this topic, the conflicting views of the appearance of some kind of precedent in European legislation are expressed, what is foreseen by us to, of course, possible solutions. Accepting the reality that the government has also accepted the resolution board, Ilic's amendment, which envisions an untaxable amount of up to 11,000 dinars and winnings on casino planning. Of course, one of the remarks that we could hear on the board, but also interested parties on these issues and double taxation, i.e. the treatment of the players' payments with the amendment of the Finance Committee, has been avoided, respecting this payment as a possibility, if the gain is greater than 11,000 dinars, to be included in the non-taxable part. These were, above all, my reasons for withdrawing the amendment to this article that envisioned an untaxable amount of 26,600 dinars. I think this is some kind of solution that is now acceptable to the government, as well as to the SPS Parliament Club. But what I also find interesting about this amendment is, above all, an explanation for the rejection of the amendments. I would like to say that it confirms what the SPS MPs discussed in the principles and particulars of these proposals, arguing both for tax justice and for fairness and for one concept of redundancy. The reason is that the proposed exemption from taxation of gambling gains to an untaxable amount of 11,000 dinars per individual gain is optimally measured, given the concept, this is a very important word, tax exemption from labour, and those who do not come from work, or in relation to work, and there is no justification for the level of the non-taxable amount of gambling being higher than the non-taxable amount of earnings. It is clear that the concept in this regard is expressed to indicate that the untaxed amount of labour income or in relation to work is the one of 11,000 dinars. Among other things, we supported this proposal to amend and supplement tax laws, because it goes in one direction to work, because the data also says that the particular burden in the minimum profit zone is highly quoted and even some data is said among the four countries in Europe, which is certainly a source and the possibility that employers, or workers, are moving towards the gray zone, having an interest. That is why I did not appear today following an amendment which we have submitted, estimating, wishing and insisting on tax justice and justice, that both income, i.e. on the basis of temporary and occasional transactions concluded directly with the employer or through the youth and student cooperatives, be included in this concept of taxation and that the untaxable amount is expressed in the amount of 11,000 dinars. It seems to me that this explanation for not accepting this amendment by counterpart Žika Gojkovic absolutely confirms our wish and intention that this concept, as it is said here, is optimally measured tax burden should certainly be applied to these revenues when it comes to temporary and business. I want to say that unemployment, and this was also in principle implemented in the debate, is a low standard of the population one of the biggest problems, and work on the basis of temporary and occasional jobs is a source of income and a condition for the survival of many young people in Serbia. It seems to me that the data based on these taxes and incomes have not been explicitly obtained, but in this way, by excluding these profits and incomes, certainly this potential income that can be realised will be canceled by one part of the safe crossing and employers, but also by those workers who could in this way make their profit by crossing the gray zone. I think that taking that stance is certainly deviating from the concept of the government and the legislator, i.e. the resolute ministry, that the aim is and long-term to dissipate the work, in order to contribute to the reduction of the grey economy zone in Serbia, which is somewhere at the level of 30% of the gross social product at the moment. I would like to say that we can really support this concept and the Government's proposal and appreciate that, first of all, effective fiscal control we advocate to absolutely curb the work on black, because workers who are not registered have been deprived of many rights, without social and health insurance, without being able to have any kind of protection from employers who are constantly threatening to quit, and this was one of the most significant motives defined by the SPS Parliament's club to accept and propose such a concept of government and to propose an amendment that would contribute to the concept of government that proposed in terms of exempting income from labour. Finally, I would like to call in this sense, and I would like to say, given that the resolution ministry and the government have not made a positive statement about this amendment, because it really is one round of large numbers of small people who, in this way, can earn their profits and existence, all the MPs in the voting day, are determined consistently for this concept and support the amendment of our parliamentary group. I say once again, as I appreciate that some kind of compromise and agreement has been reached on the taxation of gambling gains, I support the proposal of the Finance Committee and the proposal to accept the amendment of my fellow Ilic, who has already become an integral part of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17819	Thank you. Mr Vladimir Ilic submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, pursuant to Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 37. Proposer Mr Mladjan Dinkic, finance and business minister, accepted the amendment at the Committee's session. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 39th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran M. Bojanic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vucković, Gorica Mojović, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojjevic together submitted to the 39th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić together submitted to the 40th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vukkovic and Gorica Mojovic together submitted to the 40th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vukkovic, Aleksandar Senic, Ljuban Panic, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojević together submitted to the 46th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vucković, Gorica Mojović, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojevic together submitted to the 48th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vucković, Gorica Mojović, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojevic together submitted to the 49th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vucković, Gorica Mojović, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojjevic together submitted to the 55th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vucković, Gorica Mojović, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojjevic together submitted the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vucković, Gorica Mojović, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojjevic together submitted to the 60th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanić and Gorica Gajic together, together with Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic, submitted to the 61st amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić together submitted to the 61st amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic together submitted to the 62nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic submitted together to Article 63 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic together submitted to the 64th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic together submitted to the 65th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic together submitted to Article 66 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic submitted together to Article 67 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic together submitted to the 68th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 68 of the amendment, MP Alexander Antic submitted. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic together submitted to the 69th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic together submitted to the 70th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic together submitted to the 71st amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Đuric and Zoran Ostojic together submitted to the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17820	The law on income tax has reached the Assembly by emergency procedure. It is clear that the consequences of this bill will be most felt by citizens living in local self-government, since the revenues of local self-government after the entry into force of this law will be significantly reduced. You, Minister, said you advocate financial discipline, economic discipline. But I think you could also advocate discipline in your ministry. In what sense do I say this? I think six months is an unnecessary long time to prepare all the rules for the application of this law, regardless of the fact that the provisions of the Self Taxation Act apply from 1 January 2014, so since this law enters into force you have just as much as six months. We believe that the Ministry of Finance and the Government can prepare it much faster. For us in the LDP, tax predictability is very important. All those subject to a new part of the self-taxation law, we believe that if you prepare the rules within three months, not six as planned, you would allow them to prepare for a new type of taxation. Otherwise, the LDP cannot support this income tax law. On the one hand, this law reduces the income tax of citizens, reduces income by local self-government, and that other law increases the tax on pension funds and the practical state, I do not say that you are personally responsible, I believe that the government, the funds from local self-government, is directly transposing into the republican budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17821	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move on to a search in detail according to the sixth item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Supplemental Law on Accizes. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the Assembly, in connection with the search in detail of the 6th item of the agenda, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Act on Excises, in addition to the representatives of the proposer, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Business, called for the sittings to be attended by Aleksandar Ljubic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Industry, Irina Stevanović Gavrović, Assistant Minister of Finance and Economy, Milica Bisic, Special Advisor of Finance and Industry and Anastasia Tanja Djelic and Sonja Nikolic, the independent adviser in the Excise Group at the Ministry of Finance and Business. You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the bill: Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Đurić, Zoran Ostojić, Prof. Dr. Milet Poscurica, Marijan Risticevic, Bojan Kostreš, Đorđe Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik and Dragan Andrić. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Đuric and Zoran Ostojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17822	The proposed LDP amendment actually proposes that biofuels and bioflux be exempt from excise taxation. Practice has shown, and we talked about it at the end of last year, that any increase in excise duties will not bring new revenues to the Republic of Serbia's budget, but rather, that revenues on this basis will be reduced and that instead we will have smuggling and a grey economy. This has proved in practice that we were right and that the increase in excise duties will not result in an increase in the Republic's income. We believe that the government should stimulate biodiesel and such a type of fuel, rather than additionally burden all those who use biofuels and biodiesel. You will have no positive effects by increasing the excise duty, and only by doing damage to citizens who use biofuels and biodiversity by paying a higher price.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17823	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Đuric and Zoran Ostojic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17824	This amendment of ours is similar and practically all the amendments apply to the same, that excise duty should not include biofuels and biodiversity. You're the ministers in the debate in principle, and yesterday and today, talking about it since all municipalities will have fewer incomes due to a reduction in the income tax, that municipalities and the Republic should save. Is that what you said, Minister? The government should also save local self-government. In doing so, you criticised certain local self-governments that spend a lot of money on all citizens from the budget, on the team, on concerts, on grants to sports clubs and NGOs. I have to ask you, first of all, because you are the finance minister, there is a law on public procurement that is not being implemented in some municipalities. In this sense, in the municipality of Negotin was not implemented under the Law on Public Procurement, procurement for concert services on the day of the municipality, which took place on 10 May. When we talk about saving Mr. Dinkic, that's where I support you. In power in the municipality of Negotin, the SPS is in a coalition with the DS, and your party as a minority partner participates in the government. Over 400 people were at lunch, which was paid from the budget of the Municipality of Negotin. The team held a concert by Anna Bekuta, which was paid directly from the municipality's budget...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17825	Mrs. Gerov, I must remind you to speak on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17826	I'm talking about the subject, which is saving and the way local self-government shouldn't spend money on the team and concerts, which is where I support Mr. Secretary. On this basis, I just want to ask – why can a local self-government like Negotin throw money at an Anna Bekuta concert worth a million or even two million dinars, and there is no funds for the basic functioning of the municipality?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17827	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment, the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Milet Pocurica. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17828	Ladies and gentlemen, I will support Mr. Poscurica's amendment, for the reason that he has not introduced biofuels and biodiversity by amending the excise payment. The whole world stands for the production of renewable energy. This is particularly important in agriculture to produce biodiesel and green mass and from certain agricultural products biodiesel and biodiversity and energy before that. In a certain way, a level of processing is realized and the population is partly employed. I think it's wrong to impose an excise on biodiesel, so I'm going to support Mr. Poscurica's amendment. If he goes by, he'll be fine, if he doesn't, nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17829	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17830	Many countries and more and more countries are introducing an excise on biofuels and biodiversity across Europe, because it is simply the same type of fuel as diesel fuel. That's why we're initiating excise duty, because we've seen a huge increase in imports of this fuel. This is not fuel produced from some domestic biomass. It's a big increase in imports in the first four months of this fuel. You don't pay any excise. We have calculated that the potential budget loss is between 50m and 100m euros per year. We now propose the introduction of excise duty by equating that excise duty which is otherwise already applicable to gas oils in which biofuels and biodiversity are mixed, but is introduced and equally right to refaction depending on final consumption, as is the situation with diesel fuel, which means that if used for agriculture, if used for urban transport, then a refund of this excise duty will be made. So we're equating the status of all the fuels on the market, because it would have happened to us the same thing that happened a few years ago with a lot of oil, when it was much lower excise, it lost its budget around it. That's why we're introducing this excise and why we went with this law in an emergency procedure, because there are huge potential losses to the budget. I note once again, there will be a refaction for those purposes as it is done in gas oils, i.e. diesel.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17831	The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric and Zoran Ostojic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17832	I would like to thank the Vice President for not reporting again, regardless of the fact that we have several more amendments to be submitted. Mr. Minister, I don't want to talk about the amendment. I just want to ask you a question as Minister of Finance. Do you know that on June 23rd, Zajecar held early elections, since the government imposed temporary measures a month ago. But I don't know how much you know about the situation now that there's a temporary organ out there. So, the budget was passed, after a few days of rebalancing, now a new rebalancing is forecasted. You absolutely don't know who has the city's finances in Zajecar right now. One member of the temporary body simply a delinquent for one purpose, another member for another. That town has big credits. The city is owed to too many suppliers, and as finance minister, I really think that certain measures should be taken to allow only basic payments from the city's budget for the functioning of schools, public enterprises and institutions, and to bring in a new budget after the elections and to establish a control of the spending of finance. (President: Theme. In this sense, if all the money from the city budget is spent on various pre-election promises, I don't think the citizens of Zajecar will be able to function after the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17833	The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric and Zoran Ostojic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Đurić and Zoran Ostojić. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Đurić and Zoran Ostojić. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17834	Ladies and gentlemen, in this amendment, I have provided for the right to refaction of agricultural landowners using biodiesel. So far, they've been released at 120 liters of excise fuel. This was related to classic petroleum derivatives. I predicted that what they spent additionally, that is, everything they spent on the biodiesel industry, would be freed as well as the carriers, i.e. having the right to refaction on the already purchased biodiesel. So they buy it at the pump and then they get that part of the refaction back, like they've had on those 120 liters so far, and it's for a certain type of production a little bit to process a hectare, because you have a combination, you have a extract of sugar tail, you have a culture where you spend far more diesel than 120 liters to process a hectare. That's why I predicted that agricultural holdings that use biodiesel, so in that extra sense, would be able to achieve that refaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17835	On Article 10 of the amendment, the People's MP, Professor Milet Poscurica, submitted. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Đurić and Zoran Ostojić. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17836	In this article, the right to refaction shall also be given to those who use biodiesel for industrial purposes. I also predicted that agricultural holdings that use that heating energy, i.e. for drying agricultural products, would be able to refaction, that part of the money paid for by biodiesel would be returned. It's about drying, say, tobacco, plums, agricultural products, grains, wet wheat, corn. There used to be a lot of oil used to be used here. Since the vine oil has gone into diesel-paid excise duty, farmers have moved on to biodiesel in that sense. So, when drying plums, tobacco, wheat that is wet, corn that is wet, they use it as fuel, in a way for industrial purposes. That's why I predicted that this amendment equalises the right to refaction of those who use it in industry and agricultural holdings that use it for heating and drying agricultural products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17837	The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric and Zoran Ostojic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Đurić and Zoran Ostojić. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Đurić and Zoran Ostojić. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Marijan Risticevic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 14a be added after article 14. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17838	With this amendment, I predicted that this law would not apply to registered agricultural holdings that, for their own purposes, produce biofuels and biotechnology. There are also such holdings that have these small refineries and have so far been processed by sunflowers mainly by other agricultural products and made biodiesel for their own purposes. It's hard to register them as energy producers at all. I don't know how this law will apply to them. So I predicted that they would be exempted if they produced it for their own purposes and for their own land. If that doesn't work out, there's nothing I can do to help, but I think it's hard to get them into some register at all. So such holdings exist. I just wanted it to be kind of through the law and determined, because I think it's going to be very hard to translate them into some energy producers at all and it's going to be hard to introduce excises on that kind of production, since it ends up on its own land.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17839	The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric and Zoran Ostojic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Đurić and Zoran Ostojić. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Marijan Risticevic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 16a be added after article 16. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17840	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand that the need to pass this law came from the fact that, after the introduction of an excise on the vine oil, the import of biodiesel and biodiversity in our country has increased rapidly and that the national register has been damaged, and that in this way the production of biofuels and biodiversity in other countries is developing. I therefore proposed this amendment not to apply this law to the biofuels and biotechnology produced in Serbia. This is why I wanted to prevent smuggling into imports carried out from countries in the environment and in a certain way not to put into the same level of their biodiesel and biodiversity producers, while in a certain way favouring domestic production which has been very narrowed down and that, through the processing of biomass, green masses and separated agricultural products, we are getting biodiesel and in a certain way favouring renewable energy and energy producers, in such a way, through the processing of agricultural products and opening up some jobs, so that at the same level, those who import biodiesel and, as the government claims, in a certain way are smuggling and misleading and thus damaging the budget, and that very cross-productive production of biofuels and biothenias are not brought back to life and that this law is not applied to domestic producers that are very small and produced by very small quantities, in fact, that we are able to smell them in our own way, that we are able to use them in our own way, when we are able to use them in our own way, in our own way, when we are able to get to use them in our own way, when we do a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-28-0.u17841	Thank you. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric and Zoran Ostojic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear People's MPs, we're done working for today. Mr. Jeremiah, I have you registered in the system. Did you want to talk? (Free Jeremic, from the place: Yes. ) We have completed the search. (Freedan Jeremic, from the post: I volunteered as an authorised representative. ) Mr. Jeremic, I must remind you that the debate in particular is different from the debate in principle. So it's not the same. We're only discussing amendments here. Authorised representatives have 15 minutes in total and speak from amendments to amendments. So we can't go against the Rules of Procedure. So, we're done arguing. Resume session is tomorrow at 09.00. Thank you.
