ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15412	Dear People's MPs, I am opening the third session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on the official record of the session, I find that the session is attended by 130 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 132 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Zoran M Bojanic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you, aside from the representative of Proponent Milutin Mrkonjic, the minister of traffic, that I have called on the sittings to attend both Dejan Lasica and Mirjana Trifunovic, the assistant minister of traffic. You have been presented a paper on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Day to answer parliamentary questions concerning the current topic and the minutes of the First and Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of those minutes. I am voting on the paper on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in Dan to answer parliamentary questions on the current topic since 14 March 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – no one, with abstention – voted 36, out of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted a paper on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the day to answer parliamentary questions regarding the current topic since 14 March 2013. I am voting on the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 7, 8, 11, 13, 14 and 15 March 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, no one, with abstentions, voted 33, out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held 7, 8, 11, 13, 14 and 15 March 2013. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 26, 27 and 28 March and 2, 3, 4, 5 and 8 April 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – no one, the abstentioned – voted 34, out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 26, 27 and 28 March and 2, 3, 4, 5 and 8 April 2013. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, the proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda and the proposal for a merger of discussions. The government proposed putting the draft railway law on the agenda, which submitted to the National Assembly on 1 April 2013. This is the 1st point of the proposed agenda. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – no one, with abstention – voted 41, out of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The United Regions of Serbia parliamentary group proposed that the draft decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 4 April 2013, be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – no one, with abstention – voted 46, out of the 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 April 2013, be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 167 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Amendments and Supplements Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 April 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 177, out of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 April 2013, be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 178 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Democratic Party Group proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the draft decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 8 April 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154 against – no one, with abstention – one, voted 25 out of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Liberal Democratic Party Group proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision on the discharge and appointment of members and alternate members of the Republic Election Commission, which submitted to the National Assembly on 9 April 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 24 out of the 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Citizens' Protector proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extraparnical Procedure, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 April 2013, be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 159 out of the 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 21 MPs of the Democratic Party Group proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 April 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 161 out of the 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft decision on the use and participation of members of the Serbian Army in the EU military and security forces training mission Mali (EUTM Mali) on the agenda in 2013, which submitted to the National Assembly on 24 April 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – no one, with abstention – voted 49 out of the 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the approval of the state financial loan to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 30 April 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted – 191 of the total presence of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. We move on to proposals to supplement the proposed agenda. National MP Srdjan Mikovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a draft law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 January 2013, to the point – a bill amending the Law on Chambers of Commerce, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 January 2013 and to the point – a bill amending and supplementing the Law establishing maximum earnings in the public sector, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 November 2012. Does MP Srdjan Mikovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15413	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Article 107. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, each MP has the right to propose legislation. A number of our MPs have taken advantage of that possibility and tried to make certain suggestions to the National Assembly better regulated. It is precisely that there is a whole series of draft laws in the assembly procedure that have in no way provoked the reaction of the competent ministry or the government of the Republic of Serbia, that which has larger resources, offers a better solution than those offered in the draft laws, which the MPs have submitted. Today we will be able to plead, i.e. to determine how many draft laws have, for example, been tabled by DS MPs and suggested that the Government, if it has more opportunities than we do, make a better solution. I suggest that the agenda be complemented by three draft laws. These draft laws were submitted in the procedure on 23 November 2012, then on 8 January 2013 and 23 January 2013. The last proposal proposed to supplement the agenda is from 23 January 2013, which is the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. Several times here, at the tide, I spoke and explained that every local self-government, depending on the specificity and needs of the field, should be allowed to manage and finance local self-government, means that it scholarships, students and students from its territory. My colleague, Mrs. Nada Kolundzija, introduced me to this problem, and this very idea, a good idea, I kind of stepped into the bill with an attempt to enable the best students and students to scholarship and thus stay on the ground, stay inside Serbia, not all of them to come to Belgrade. The Chief Ministry said it was all right, but there's no official response until today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15414	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 50, against – one abstention – there is no, no vote – 142 of the total attendance of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Ivan Karic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a declaration for Serbia without GMOs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 February 2013. Does MP Ivan Karic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15415	Dear President, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I hope you read my declaration with the same zeal and carelessness, as you read the declaration of Vojvodina and I hope you could think with the same ferocity about that declaration. I want to inform you that 48 cities and municipalities have so far adopted a declaration for their cities without genetically modified products and without genetically modified production. This is how they joined hundreds of regions in the EU. This means that this declaration is not against any EU law, and primarily represents and extends the policy of all the greens in the EU and Europe, all the green parties in Europe. Anything that can cause doubt must not be found on the market of the Republic of Serbia and must not be found in the seed production of the Republic of Serbia. This area is not fully understood and the consequences of genetically modified organisms entering our agriculture and our trade can be far-reaching and dangerous. After all, what is the strategic interest in our country? Of the 240 sovereign states, even 40 have not ratified the World Trade Organisation documents you're telling us so much about the import of GMO seeds into their countries. Germany, France has not ratified these agreements on genetically modified organisms, and Switzerland has introduced moratorium. Can an independent country that has earned from the production of seed for itself and for export allow itself to become dependent on other people's seed and, after all, on other people's will. We have no right to ourselves, nor to our children, and we have no right to this house where we all swear to play with this question. Can the World Trade Organization punish us? It cannot punish us because only 37 countries have accepted their terms, and over 200 countries that are members of the World Trade Organisation have not accepted these conditions. You can't tell this country either, and you can't tell us as MPs, you can't order it, it's in Angolan law, it's probably fellow MPs who are lawyers who know, it's called blackmail. If we're willing to accept this blackmail act by the World Trade Organisation, then we won't vote for this declaration.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15416	I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on this proposal. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 65, no one, abstentioned – one, did not vote – 131 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 2 April 2013. The word is Dr. Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15417	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this initiative is in fact one logical consequence of that public hearing we had here at the National Assembly on March 7th, which refers to the amendment of the Law on Higher Education, and in fact to giving equality and testimony to foreign schools with the testimony of domestic schools of the same kind through a detailed comparison of study programmes, acquired and requested qualifications, or, in short, the nostration of diplomas of our people studying abroad or completed doctoral studies abroad. The number of these people is very large and the number of people returning to the country would certainly be greater if this procedure were not so complicated, difficult, even expensive. Let me remind you, there are two kinds of nostrifications in our country. One is academic, for further education, the other is for employment, and that's so-called. Professional nostration degree. For the nosetriification of higher education diplomas is the responsibility of the university, or independent high school, which means that we have a large number of different classifications and structurings, as defined by the nostration of diplomas at certain universities, or universities. This process can take a very long time, after a few years, it can cost a lot. At Belgrade University, recognition of a doctoral degree costs 500 euros, foreign citizens 1,000 euros, and costs up to 2,000 euros in private somewhere. We're proposing a 60-day cut, we're proposing a certain tariff that has to do with and makes sense with the country we live in. In Croatia, for example, the price is 65 euros. Why would we pay 2,000 euros here to nostrify a diploma? On the other hand, there is another paradox, which is that the state of Serbia has sent 983 students abroad to school in the last three school years, through the Youth Fund. That means that when they graduate from college there, we'll ask them to nostrify their diploma back here in our country, instead of opening their doors, we'll close their doors for a return, or in return we'll ask them for about a million and a half to two million euros to nostrify their diplomas. Surely it's not a determining factor in whether these people will return, but it's the first perception of a young man who goes abroad to school, to return to our country. It is up to us to support this change of the Law on Higher Education, in order to facilitate not only the process of nostrification, but to make it cheaper, faster and give these young people a chance, because they bring innovation, new ideas, and hence new technologies and new jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15418	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for 69, against and withheld, there was no vote of 125, by 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Arms and Ammunition, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 10 April 2013. Does MP Srdjan Milivojevic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15419	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is simply an incomprehensible ease with which you reject laws that are not proposed by the opposition, not by the DS, but by proposing life in this country. It is simply frantic, in the end, the bold way you ignore life in Serbia. On April 9th, there was a great tragedy in the village of Velika Ivanca near Mladenec. There were 13 people killed in a weapon that the owner had a legal license for. As DS, we immediately submitted the Bill on Arms and Ammunition Amendments on 10 April, with the requirement that every man who wants to have a weapon in Serbia must first undergo a medical examination, obtain medical assurance that he is capable of possession and handling weapons. We've also asked people who already have weapons within a year to carry out such a review, so we don't have these tragedies repeated. I don't see any reason for anyone not to vote for this preventive law. This is a law that can prevent some new tragedy in some new great Ivanca. I appeal to your conscience to accept this law, I urge you in white suits to listen to me carefully and to consider the validity of the reasons why we propose such laws. We do not do so because the congregation in a regular session could not sit down for a month because the government was unable to write the laws. This is not a law written by DS or a group of MPs. This is the law that wrote life. His necessity requires what happened in Great Ivanca. So I appeal to the ruling majority, that the next day we do not bear a heavy burden of irresponsibility on our shoulders, that you really consider and accept that we put this law on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15420	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for 60, there were no, no, no, 133, of 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Komic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 April 2013. Does Mrs. Comic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15421	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the 31st MP has signed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, thus giving support to our colleague, MP Gorica Mojovic, who has conducted both professional research and dialogue and talks with the competent for European integration in the Government of Serbia and many of us here, regardless of whether we belong to the ruling majority or to the opposition, in an attempt to benefit everyone, in an attempt to accept once-for-a-time the amendment when we have discussed the Law on Public Procurement, to return to the legal framework when the Law on Public Procurement is passed. It is, of course, cultural institutions and public procurement in cultural institutions, which is what we have all witnessed in recent weeks and months, that it is simply inapplicable to the Law on Public Procurement in cultural institutions. It is a statement by Minister Petkovic, which he says - that member of the law will not apply. It is not possible for the Public Procurement Administration to tell anyone, members of the law must apply, and cultural institutions are simply incompatible with the nature of artistic and cultural activities, apply any public procurement procedure in the case of selection of dramatic works for the repertoire or the scenario for filmmaking, the selection of directors, screenwriters, costumes, actors, authors, authors or book translators, the formation of exhibition exhibition programs of museums, galleries, the formation of museum and archival collections, music repertoires, ensembles, orchestras and music agencies, etc., in which case, in no letter, nor alteration or addition, we touch everyone who spends budget money, and that is quite clear to what it is, in accordance with the law, and whether money is spent. I am very sorry that there was no will to read the amendment and addition of the Law on Public Procurement which is in the procedure. I am sorry that the effort our colleague Gorica Mojovic made will not be crowned by a joint decision to discuss this at the shortest possible time, and I am most sorry that there is no tendency towards the rule of law which implies, firstly, that the legal system is applied as the Assembly voted, and secondly, it means that it is understood that when the opposition proposes something, it is not because it is the will of the opposition or it is contrary to the will of the ruling majority, but because a huge error has been observed in the law. This is a general interest. I hope you will vote, however, to discuss the amendments and additions to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15422	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 65, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 128 out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. We're moving on to a motion to merge the debate. National MP Zoran Babic, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Articles 170, 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle and uniform search be carried out on: the draft Law on Railways, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Strasbourg Convention on the responsibilities of internal navigation and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on Co-operation in the field of maritime transport; the 2nd Joint Principles on the Law on the Rights of the Patients and the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disruptions; the 3rd Joint principled Search of the Charter of the Republic of Serbia on: Proposal for a Law on the publication of Laws and Acts and Acts on the Amendments of the Laws of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the 4th Joint Single Review on the Use of a Decision on the use and Participation of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the European Union, the Charter of the Republic of the Republic of the European Union for the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the European Union to the Republic of the European Union for the Republic of Croatia, the European Union to the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Parliament, the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the Council for the Council for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the Council for the Council for the European Parliament for the Council for the Council for the Council for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the Council for the Council for the European Parliament for the Council for the European Parliament for the Council for the European Parliament for the Council for the European Parliament for the Council for the Council for the European Parliament for the Council for the Council for the European Parliament and for the Council for the Council for the Council for the Council for the Council for the European Parliament for the Council for the European Parliament for the Council for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the Council, and for the Council, and for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the Council for the Council for the Council, and for the Council for the Council, and for the Council, and for the Council for the Council for the Council for the Council for the Does MP Zoran Babic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, against - one, the abstentioned did not vote 59 out of 186 MPs. He finds that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for the agenda for the session of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda and a proposal for a merger of the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 56 out of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, in general. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a Law on Railways, submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a bill on patients' rights, submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a law on the protection of persons with mental disorders, which the Government has filed; 4. Proposal for a law on the publication of laws and other regulations and acts by the Government; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, submitted by the MPs Aleksandar Jugovic, Olgica Batic, Mirko Cikiriz, Žika Gojkovic and Aleksandar Čotric; 6. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Strasbourg Convention on the Restriction of Liability in Internal Navigation (CLNI 2012), submitted by the Government; 7. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation in the field of maritime transport, submitted by the Government; 8. Proposal for a decision on the use and participation of a member of the Serbian Army in the European Union military and security training mission Mali (EUTM Mali) in 2013, which was submitted by the Government; 9. Report by the Security Control Committee on the work of the Security Service for 2012, with a proposal for a decision on the adoption of the Report, submitted by the Security Control Committee of the National Assembly; 10. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the employment of members of the family of staff of diplomatic and consular offices, which was submitted by the Government; 11. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia on the employment of members of the family of staff of diplomatic and consular offices, which was submitted by the Government; 12. Proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the discharge and appointment of members and deputies of members of the Republic Election Commission, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democratic Party; 13. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the United Regions of Serbia; 14. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on drafts of the agenda under points 1, 6 and 7, and before the opening of the search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 170, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. The details of the time are in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled and uniform search on: draft Law on Railways, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Strasbourg Convention on the Restriction of Liability in Internal Navigation and Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on Co-operation in the field of maritime transport. Does the representative of Proposer Milutin Mrkonjic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15423	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I always feel great satisfaction and great responsibility and willingness to accept everything that you as MPs think is useful and necessary to use in the documents we are talking about today in the field of traffic with special pleasure. I'm undermining again. I'm always leaving this high house to learn something new. A lot of people here know a lot about traffic, and that's why I'd like to thank you in advance for the suggestions you're about to make. In short, I will explain all three proposals for the document. The first is the draft law on railways. The main objectives of this law are to improve the efficiency of the Republika Srpska rail system, integrate it into the transport services market and integrate Serbian rail into the EU rail system. The adoption of this bill will bring national legislation into line with EU rules, which is a key priority in the EU accession process and implementing European rules on the area of rail transport. The proposal for a railway law shall further develop the relationship between the state and its authorities and the railway companies as their responsibilities, obligations and conditions to be met by railway companies in order to carry out the work for which they are established. It is regulated to separate the railway system to the part relating to the management of railway infrastructure, the organisation and regulation of the transport of management infrastructure and to the part relating to passenger and freight transport, the railway undertaking and their operations, which means their specific financing. The creation of conditions for the emergence of several railway undertakings, which should lead to competition and increased transport quality, as well as the liberalisation of the railway market. It is also foreseen by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to adopt a five-year national programme of railway infrastructure on a proposal from the Government of Serbia, which determines the state of existing infrastructure, building plans, reconstruction and maintenance of infrastructure, determines the tasks, their scope, dynamics, realisation and priorities, heights and sources of financial resources needed for the realisation of the national programme, defining the obligations of infrastructure managers, which their annual plans must comply with the national programme. The proposal for a railway law sets out more precisely the provisions defined for a public transport obligation, whose services are needed and applied in EU countries, and for reasons of general economic interest cannot currently be provided on a commercial basis. The purpose of the provisions relating to the public transport obligation is to prescribe the conduct of state authorities, AP authorities and local law enforcement authorities, on the one hand, as well as railway undertakings, on the other hand, in the field of public transport of passengers, and in order to ensure the provision of services of general interest, which are, among other things, better quality or at lower prices than those which would be possible solely on the basis of the functioning of market laws. Special attention is paid to the regulation of combined transport, where most of the transport route is carried out by rail, which, despite its importance and potentials, is largely neglected in the current Railway Act. Also, this law provides for the possibility of stimulating combined transport. This law also defines more precisely the responsibilities and tasks of the Railway Directorate, which according to European regulations and standards should be represented by the licensing body, the regulatory body and the safety body. The draft law on railways provides the basis for the initial phase of the rail system restructuring process in the Republic of Serbia. The activities are under way to restructure Serbia's Railways and, according to the plans of the Ministry of Transport, it is envisaged that the future organisational structure consists of four dependent companies within the group of companies, such as: a public railway infrastructure management company, a public transport company for public transport of passengers in rail transport and maintenance of railway vehicles in this type of transport, a public transport service company, a public transport service company in railway transport and maintenance of railway trains, vehicles in this type of transport and a company for the operation of real estate management and other property of the railways of Serbia. In this way, the organisation and functioning of subsidiaries would be consistent with the location of income, and financial and business independence would exist by segments. The process of reforms and investment activities undertaken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia must take place synchronisedly, as it will only give the expected effects. The second document is a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on co-operation in the field of maritime transport. I know the question of MPs will probably be why Serbia with Cyprus? Because Cyprus is the fourth largest ship in the world, and this agreement gives our sailors a chance to engage through Cyprus and work on those ships. So the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Cyprus have not concluded an agreement on co-operation in maritime transport. Maritime transport is carried out in accordance with international conventions in the maritime areas which both countries have ratified. The conclusion of a maritime transport co-operation agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Cyprus is a new concrete contribution to creating more favourable conditions for further improving bilateral economic co-operation between the two countries. The agreement is given importance to maritime transport, especially given that the Republic of Serbia has lost its seas since the decommissioning of the Serbia-Montenegro State Community, and that it has remained as a supersergist in all international conventions in the maritime area ratified by the former state. Given that maritime transport is one of the elements in the transport and supply of goods to the Republika Srpska market and given the economic and economic value of maritime transport compared to other modes of transport, there is a need for its strengthening and co-operation in this area with the Republic of Cyprus. The third document is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Strasbourg Convention on the Limitation of Liability in Internal Navigation. The Institute of responsibilities of shipowners is one of the basic principles of responsibility in maritime law and inland navigation rights and is one of the most important characteristics of this branch of law. In maritime law, the shipowner was always allowed to limit his responsibility to the value of maritime property involved in the disaster. Inland navigation, attempts were made to settle the issue through interstate instruments. The draft of an instrument made up by the EU Economic Commission for Europe, however, has never come into force. On the other hand, on the River Reyna it was adopted under the auspices of the Central Committee for the Sailing of the Paradise so-called "Rajna". The 1998 Strasbourg Convention on the Restriction of the responsibilities of shipowners of internal navigation. The States Parties to this Convention shall exclusively be the Rajean Middle States and that shall be Germany, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Luxembourg. Since 1976, there has been no other attempt to adopt an appropriate international legal instrument that would uniquely regulate the Institute in the internal navigation across the European continent, the Central Commission for Navigation has launched an initiative to adopt amendments and additions to the Strasbourg Convention to extend it to the European level. Following the entry into force of the final text, a diplomatic conference in Strasbourg was scheduled for the working group of experts between 25 September and 27 September, which adopted the text of the Strasbourg Convention on the Restriction of Responsibility for Internal Navigation and the signing of the final diplomatic convention. Given that the Republic of Serbia is involved in a diplomatic conference as if it also signed the final act of the diplomatic convention, a process has been launched to confirm participants in the conference the adoption of the certification law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15424	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ( ) First came the word of Parliamentarian Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15425	Dear Mr. Minister, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Serbia also referred the draft railway law to the procedure on April 1st, but it is the first time before the National Assembly that a draft law on railways is in place. You remember probably Mr. Minister that the previous debate, the principle debate on the draft law on railways, began on 7 September 2011 and then at the end of September 2011, even in December, it was impossible for the National Assembly to pass this law because we, the SVM, opposed to giving a quorum because we felt that this bill did not respect the economic interests of the AP Vojvodina. As a result, this bill was not passed, and according to our findings, this bill was the only one in the last conventions that did not receive support from the National Assembly. We are not happy about the fact that our goal was not destruction, our goal was not to defuse the adoption of the law. Our goal was to choose, in agreement with the ministry at the time, to adopt some amendments that would improve this proposal, the bill at the time. Because only a few days later, this National Assembly discussed the proposal for a public property law, and then we repeatedly said that if the Law on Railways does not enter the provision that the AP Vojvodina can be owned along the state roads of the second order and local and regional railway infrastructures on its territory, then it will not be possible by the Law on Public Property, because it is impossible, or should not be allowed for the laws of the Republic of Serbia to be in conflict with each other. In the meantime, unlike the Law on Railways, the Law on Public Property was adopted on 26 September 2011, and therefore we cannot propose the same solutions that we proposed in early September 2011, meaning, a year and a half ago. Not because we changed our minds or attitudes, not because we changed our mind, but because the Law on Public Property was adopted in the meantime and it is not possible now, or because it would not be serious to propose solutions that would be in conflict with the other law, and the Law on Public Property, unfortunately, will not be amended in the coming days. We voted against that law, and we don't think that law makes up the right framework for a given topic, but that's not the point now. In 2011, we submitted six amendments. Of these amendments, two were adopted, then by the Ministry and the National Assembly’s competent committee, and now these solutions have entered into the bill. So this bill has been changed and improved to some extent. However, this cannot mean that we are satisfied with this bill, but for the sake of truth, I must say that this bill contains in itself the possibility that the Government, i.e. the competent authorities, local self-government units and autonomous provinces may, in order to ensure the transport of general interest, establish a public transport obligation for the railway undertaking and that the means to compensate public transport obligations are provided to carriers in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the AP Vojvodina and the units of local self-government. Another segment improved the bill compared to the proposal a year and a half ago. In Article 7(3), point (a) is replaced by the following: The 2011 bill said that the management activity is carried out by a company founded by the Republic of Serbia. It was so planned and that solution was quite exclusive. According to the current draft law, the same position of Article 3(7) states that the management activity is carried out by a company of capital established and exists in accordance with a law governing the exercise of activity of general interest. It is the Law on Public Services and this means that this activity can also be carried out by legal persons whose founders are next to the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, cities, municipalities, meaning local self-government. The question is – on what terms it is possible. We think that we should standard these conditions differently and we have submitted amendments to those solutions that I will talk about a little later. Before I move on to concrete amendments, I want to say that in some way history repeats itself. We're discussing a bill that's 95% the same from a year and a half ago. Let me share with you the thought of what I look forward to what MPs from the parliamentary groups who were part of the ruling majority in the previous session will say. These MPs told us a year and a half ago that we had proposed something that was against the constitution, which is impossible, which is not complete, and now that I've looked at this debate and looked at what the other MPs have suggested, then I saw that these solutions from their amendments are very similar to our amendments. This means that there are MPs and parliamentary groups who act in one way when they are in power and in another when they are in opposition. This is not news, and it is not a newspaper in the political life of the Republic of Serbia, but I think it is very interesting and I am truly pleased that we will have the support of some parliamentary groups on this occasion for our proposed solutions that did not stand with us a year and a half ago. But that doesn't mean that and I want to say that we're going to be able to do the same thing we did a year and a half ago, and now it's quite clear that this law will be passed, but I still hope that some of our amendments will pass. If that is the case, then it is possible that we will support this bill, but if it remains unchanged, then we will remain in our positions from a year and a half ago. I want to talk about the fact that it's very bad that one atmosphere was created a year ago and a half ago and now, which is talking about there being MPs, above all from the AP Vojvodina who want to tear apart "the railroad of Serbia", who want to demonstrate the railways in Vojvodina, who want to take some parts of the railway infrastructure, etc. Of course, it's neither intention nor reality, and I think it's unnecessary for anyone to swear allegiance here, etc. We simply believe that the Republic of Serbia has shown in recent years that it can manage rail infrastructure in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, because the Republic has not done so in the best way, to formulate this thought and therefore we believe that it is necessary to give both local self-government and above all, the AP Vojvodina to manage part of the railway infrastructure on its territory. We think that we should allow the AP Vojvodina to compete with various European and other funds, we should allow the AP to invest in that infrastructure and it will be in the interest of the entire Republic of Serbia, not only of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina, because, as it has repeatedly pointed out, rail and railway infrastructure is a unique system. This does not mean that it should fail uniquely, it means that it should allow both local communities and the AP Vojvodina to do something, that parts of the railway infrastructure would be in better shape than in other areas, if it has knowledge, if it has the ability, if there is money, projects, then it should simply be done and I think that they are pointless statements of type, the railway is a small state, and in the state it has to function as a single system. Yes, it should function as a unique system, but I don't think the focus should be on a single system, but on words, it works. I don't think the rail infrastructure works in the best way possible, to use the easiest possible formulation again. Even more interesting statements were that a year and a half ago, the essence was that Vojvodina was isolated from Serbia. You, Mr. Minister, only a month ago told RTS that the secession of Serbia is unacceptable and that you were absolutely against it and that this is why our amendments were not accepted. We've known each other for many years, and I don't think you're right when you talk about our intention being to separate Vojvodina from Serbia or that we were working to tear Serbia apart. That doesn't even match the content of our amendments. Once again, we want the railway infrastructure on the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia to be at the level of the 20th century, the second half of the 20th century. You know very well that this is not the case, and if the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia gives certain powers to the AP of Vojvodina, I think that when we ask that Vojvodina enjoys these responsibilities, or if it exercises those responsibilities, then it is not the secession of Serbia and that is not the case. Article 87. The constitution says: "physical and legal persons can acquire individual rights on certain goods in general use, under conditions and in the manner provided for by law". This translated into Serbian means that if the Law on Railways provides, then the AP Vojvodina, units of local self-government can manage part of the railway infrastructure. This does not mean that the railway infrastructure in the territory of the Republic of Serbia would cease to be a single system. The railways won't be any different, the trains won't stand, the passengers won't have to change the train when they get to the AP Vojvodina territory and that's funny stuff, because it's not about that, and nobody's thought about it. It wasn't about that either, it wasn't about a year and a half ago to form a public enterprise called the Railways of Vojvodina. It's not the key. It's not the most important thing. The most important thing is that the AP Vojvodina can have certain competences related to the management of railway infrastructure and that it is not happening what is happening these weeks, that the province's Department of Economy, gets funds in one international competition, it's about the IPA funds, and that it's been waiting for months for one signature from your ministry, Mr Minister, that it can't be the whole project of the province, from a dead spot, because it's waiting for a term for a meeting between the people of the province's Secretariat, whose jurisdiction includes the affairs of traffic, and your ministry. It is a concrete project, a revitalisation of infrastructure, railways, between Subotica and Segedin, and it is of international importance. Of course, we are not looking, and I am stressing again, the railway corridors, it is not realistic, it should be in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, but if there is one such project and if it is the institution of this project of the provincial Secretariat, then it is unacceptable for me that there is no communication between the province and the republican level, and we have been stressing for months that when it comes to the autonomy of the Vojvodina, we should not be dealing with abstract matters, but simply, people from the regional secretariats and the republican ministries, we should sit down for the same table and start solving specific problems. I suppose this project falls under Mr. Lassica's jurisdiction, so I hope that Mr. Lassica will find time to deal with this issue, so that these things don't last for weeks and months. A year and a half ago, I talked a lot about the history of railway infrastructure in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Let me just get a few data. The first railway on the territory of today's AP Vojvodina was built in 1869. It was a railroad between Saturday and Somboro, actually Segedina, Subotica and Somboro. In Vojvodina, the railroad arrived only 29 years after England. In the early 20th century, Vojvodina had the densest network of railways in Europe. The so-called "Vojvodjanski almanah" was issued in Novi Sad in 1924, with the help of the most famous Serbian experts of the period being given a full and full statistical review of Vojvodina by each settlement on 460 sides. In the Vojvodina area of 1923, the railway network was 1700km long. This is unfortunately not improved even now in 2013. Now there are 1735 kilometers of track in Vojvodina. Of which 382 kilometers was owned by the state. There are also railways in Vojvodina today that were last restored during the reign of Francis Joseph. I asked you, Mr. Minister, last time, do you know when King Francis Joseph died? It was 1916, and since then we have been waiting for the reconstruction of certain railways in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, in vain. The speed of trains does not reach the speed of those of the late 19th century. I could name that much more data. As far as today's situation, from 1735km of track in Vojvodina, there are 237km of local railways that are not in use, 347km of local railways on which very low traffic takes place, close to 200km of decommissioned railways, 445km of regional rails on which there is very little axle pressure, and traffic is carried out with reduced intensity. I think that as far as today's situation is concerned, then partners need to be found for it and in the state of Serbia and beyond its borders, what works in the countries of Europe should be applied. For example, all forms of property on railway infrastructure are possible in Austria, there are several operators in Italy, in the Czech Republic national and part of the regional railways are owned by the state, and part of the regionals are privatised, in France the same decentralisation has been carried out according to the regional principle, etc. Please, Mr. Minister, that very carefully... Time. I end up, to very carefully study our amendments and we'll discuss concrete solutions a little bit, when the National Assembly will discuss the draft law in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15426	Thank you. The word has Minister Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15427	In principle, when I defend any document here in the Assembly, I listen to all MPs and then answer. But since I have so much political experience to realize that Mr. Pastor is one of the few who will be against this law, not in general, I want to answer him immediately, a young colleague, a wonderful young man, with whom I've worked very well, about some of the things that are mentioned here. First of all, traffic, and that's my general lifestyle, doesn't take the line. That's why I've had a lot of political problems. I've got them today. There's no boundaries. We today, in the conditions in which we live as a country going to the EU, try in every way to reduce those problems we have at our border crossings by uniting all the jobs that are done on the border, so trains and trucks can pass through our country faster, in order to maintain our course and direction of victory over Corridor 4. It's the one that goes through Romania and Bulgaria. The other thing, I never talked about that, it's possible that you found some of my statement somewhere in the rip-off, I am in that sense Yugoslav and I don't hide it, absolutely, and a Yugoslav, but I never talked about that because of the amendment in the last session that you've endured, you're tearing Serbia, ever. Those amendments had a good side, and we'll probably have some of them, if you've put in now, and we'll adopt. I'm just saying, even today, when we talk about the railway arm of Corridor 10 towards Budapest, we are still negotiating this very job, that Vojvodina itself, or any region in Serbia, has no chance of doing these jobs, there is no. Don't make us go crazy. Of course, this law provides a lot of opportunities, Mr. Pastor, for local self-government to be involved, of course, in agreement with the railway and with the basic development strategy, but I repeat once again, we are negotiating with the Hungarians today, and negotiations are being continued tomorrow to end the arm from Belgrade to Budapest in record time, and that the second track in Vojvodina, there it is. At the very end of the line, my approach to our politicizing the Vojvodina problem has shown Corridor 10 on the road. First we did Corridor 10 on the road, what do you think it was easy to convince southern Serbia, east of Serbia to go north first? It's not. But, of course, there are some other advantages, geography, conditions, of course a better standard of citizens and better maintenance of roads and railways in Vojvodina was. I'm sorry, one more thing to tell you, it's Mr. Angelkovic, the recent and current chairman of the Railway Management Board, I never agreed that any railway in Vojvodina was abolished or that Austro-Hungarian knew what it was, and today and this information you gave is absolutely right, none of these tracks are useless, we just need to get them in a state that they can live and work. I repeat, the law has several good solutions, I'll probably talk about it when I make your amendments, but I'd like to discuss it more in detail when I talk about the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15428	Thank you. Mr. Milovan Markovic was in the system. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15429	Thank you. The President-in-Office, Mr Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, the law that is before us is certainly of paramount importance, as stated in the explanation for improving all normative definitions related to raising efficiency in rail transport and in this public sector. The Serbian Railways Action Society, which is not unknown, faces a number of problems, and they are not all about the law, but the existing law does have some shortcomings, and precisely in these key objectives that we should leave behind as the implementation of the new law, it is unconcerned. I don't think that the law itself will solve the biggest number of problems that exist in this public sector and in rail transport, but it will certainly remove some obstacles that exist today, and also the ministry and management of the AD "Serb railways" and the Serbian Parliament itself, to continue to restructure the one within the action society itself, to provide exactly what the objectives of this law are and what are the interests of the Serbian state, and that is above all to raise the efficiency of this traffic system, the training of the "Serb Railway" for open competition in the future, and in any case, what is most important, the integration of the "Serb Railway" and the railway of Serbia into the railway network, in an explanation of the EU, I would say, and this part of Europe, before all this region and in a wider sense, and the EU. Of course, the ministry that is responsible for this sector and in the previous period has made efforts, and it makes them and now I welcome it, that it is just going in this direction. Mr. Minister, you have made a great deal of effort to show not only for the sake of Southernity, but for the interest of the development of rail traffic in Corridor 10, that cooperation with other railway administrations that are on this corridor and on this direction, we are establishing one joint venture. Many did not understand that this attempt has only an economic character. There were various comments. I sincerely hope they were above all due to a lack of understanding, not from some bad intentions. It remains as something that is a new offer in the transport of goods on rail corridors throughout our country. I would not like us to concentrate just on Corridor 10, and in that case we will become transit railways and provide services in the future, which is not so far away, total liberalisation of rail traffic, first in the region and then in Europe and in general, and in this sense only provide services to trains that come and go through Serbia. These are the fears of employees today at the Railways of Serbia, that incomparably fewer of those, above all, professional people, executives, will care for their jobs or lose their jobs, which is neither good at all, nor is the goal of this ministry nor those who run this public sector. Of course, competitiveness is something that will raise the quality of services and of carriers and goods and passengers today at the "Serb Railway" Action Society and in the future, as you have pointed out, I want to support, that the future organisation scheme will involve control society and three or four dependent societies besides existing subsidiaries and thus really separate, which is also the intensity of this law and one of the most important of its quality, infrastructure manager, fully independent of the impact, so if you want the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia itself, which is the founder and manager of this public enterprise, and that is the public resource, but if we want to provide conditions for one quality and impartial competitiveness and quality raising, then the infrastructure manager, which is the founder and manager of this law, which is the public resource, and if we want to provide conditions for one of its own quality and private customers to be able to be able to provide, in particular, in particular, with the most important, to provide for all of our customers, to be able to provide the most reliable and private customers, to provide their customers with the goods, which are, the most reliable, the most reliable, to the most of which are, the most of their customers, who, the most---. No, on the contrary, those who have sufficient means of driving know that they are organising this job should be encouraged to be more efficient, rational and not to worry about their representation on a single free market. This is for public transport or for the transport of passengers one specific topic to be dealt with in the future primarily from the position of the ministry in a very careful way. Of course, there are not enough passengers on our trains today and this reduces revenues, and the costs are almost fixed or fully fixed when you organize one departure of the train to any destination, whether it will drive this or that number of passengers. This only measures the total income, from ticket sales, but not the costs related to the staff serving that train and to the destination of the costs to the destinations that we are talking about. It's not the only reason our tracks aren't fast enough or our trains aren't high enough. I hope that this will be changed in the future, too, because we are talking about large investments in the purchase of new vehicles and loans and European banks and some governments, above all the Government of the Russian Federation. Then we will again create preconditions that we can offer a quality service, a more comfortable service to those who want to use train transport, of course, with respect for the timetable, which is perhaps the most important fact, more important than the fact that train transport is not expensive or that ticket payments are very low. All of this will be a future operator in competition with potentially private operators who, according to the law we are talking about today, can, if they get a vehicle, get a license and a traffic safety certificate to carry out transport. Of course they won't be able to compete with the economic price of tickets, but they will make contracts with local self-governments, with the province, with the Republic and, of course, important competition in the goods transport market. I don't think the existing capacities of the Serbian Railways Action Society in the transport of passengers can be competitive, on the contrary, but they are. The obligation of the future infrastructure manager, the company to be managed, is complete railways and facilities and organise traffic for users of these facilities in the transport of goods and passengers. It'll be a very slippery terrain. I say so because on the one hand we will have contracts resulting from the withdrawal of funds from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, without which there is no maintenance of infrastructure, promotions and traffic organisation, and whether on the other hand they will be able to meet their commitments to operators who also have obligations to their clients. There's no alternative to this organization. It is the only possible chance for the "Serbian Railways" to become a more efficient, more quality and competitive enterprise than they are today. This will stop us from running social policy in the public sector, first of all in "The Railways of Serbia. All parts of the company will be on the infrastructure manager market. Of course, there will be no competition, but it will have contractual obligations towards the restoring ministry, i.e. the government of the Republic of Serbia as founder. I have high hopes in the national railway infrastructure programme, which is foreseen by this law, which is adopted for five years and which provides for all elements related to infrastructure, from recording the situation of existing infrastructures to short-term, medium-term and long-term plans and, of course, the annual reporting of infrastructure managers with major obligations towards the ministry that entrusted him with this type of business. What do I see as a great quality of moving on to one of these organizations of the Serbian Railway Action Society that stems from this law? First of all, abandoning one impression that railways are a cost. This is not the case in any country in Europe or in the world. Railways and investment in railway infrastructure and in the development of rail transport is development. That's what Minister Mrkonjic repeated several times, and that is how it really is. No state has been able to develop its railway infrastructure at some enviable level without major investment. It's a prestigious thing, it's a state resource, and we don't have any alternative and we don't have to deal with checking calculations where cheaper transport is, whether in road traffic, goods transport or railways. Of course, in these conditions, when the state builds and supports roads and only on first-class highways is charged by the road, more efficiently, faster and cheaper in road transport. European countries facing the problem of suffocating goods and the non-organic character of road transport, impose a commitment and grant subsidies for the transport of goods by rail. The state of Switzerland is not a good example because it is far from us. She had a referendum on the matter – is it the obligation of those who transport goods to destinations where there is a rail traffic, to transport their containers by rail and to take over terminals at the destinations to which they are referred? Of course it's so organized. We're relatively far from it today, but I welcome the law's intensities to ensure the possibility of developing combined transport. I know that there's been an analysis done at the ministry in that direction, and I'm sure we'll make a certain shift in that regard. We no longer need to talk about the future if we are able to restructure the company itself in a decent short time and form a national programme of railway infrastructure and perhaps in the next financial year, but the slowness is our virtue, but let it be in some of the coming budget years. What is today called subsidies and are going to pay off profits in Serbia's Railways to be fully clear contractually defined out of the budget. Whether it will be more or less in the first year is difficult to assess. But not to make it clear that Serbia's railway cost is no longer clear to the budget or to someone taking from the budget, but to be investing from the budget in the development of an important resource that has now been neglected decades ago due to insufficient investment and maintenance of infrastructure. We don't have a choice about whether we're going to build new railways, whether we're going to rebuild existing railways, there's no one in this room or anywhere where we're going to suggest that, as the minister said, we cut the tracks, we leave Corridor 10, we put the ramps on. I'm talking about pointless decisions on our border, to say that the train can get here, and there's no railroad, that's never going to happen. According to this, we have to act quickly, now we have no legal obstacles, we have never had them before. We always face the problem of insufficient financial resources, but the national railway infrastructure programme foresees this as an obligation to be defined. I'm sure it'll be used. I am talking affirmatively about this law, because I really think that it is the interest of each individual to edit this area and to affirm rail traffic as a priority, primarily in the transport of goods and as very suitable in the transport of passengers despite the fact that it is in some aspects more expensive than road traffic, but in all European countries it is the first source because of its ecological characteristics and because of the shift of this large number of transport vehicles from blocked roads, because we do not have enough capacity on the roads. I think we'll go that way. The MP group Together for Serbia will vote in favour of the law. I don't think he's going to suffer any dramatic changes through the amendments. I have seen some amendments, and they are only one technical improvement in the current text, so I think that this way we will again underline, create preconditions to put order in rail traffic and to restructure the company in the direction in which the intensity and this law is, to make it efficient and able to integrate into the network of European railways, one day finally into the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15430	The word has Minister Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15431	I thank you, and I forgot to say when I said that this is the chairman of the Railway Management Board, Mr. Angelkovic, that Mica Markovic, was also the director-general of the Railways yesterday. I thank him for everything he did with me and Angelkovic. Micho, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15432	The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15433	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, esteemed colleagues, MPs and MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the SDPS parliamentary group supports the proposal for a Law on Railways because it believes that the solutions proposed are to the greatest extent possible, and that some parts of the professional public may be removed by amendments. In my presentation, I will not deal with all the many problems facing Serbia's railways, namely the state that covers their losses, but also citizens who are victims of unquality rail transport and who ultimately pay for all the wrong decisions made in the past in the rail transport sector. Regardless of the fact that each citizen of Serbia agrees with this claim, this is also the SDPS parliamentary group, and this problem is extremely serious, it is not the subject of today's debate, so I will leave it for another occasion, for example when some future budgets are passed in which we will be able to see the effects of this legal solution or of some colleagues who find it appropriate to talk about it today, which is their legitimate right. It is not rare to hear calls on Serbia's railways, as they call them the biggest losers in Serbia, while ignoring the fact that the system of rail traffic is systematic, unintended, but recklessly destroyed for years, so I would say even for decades, not entirely by market business, which has led it to the inability to generate free reproduction, about new investments that I don't even speak. When so unilaterally speaking about railways, and we know that it is much easier to criticise than something concrete to offer and do, it is too often forgotten that the comparative advantages of rail transport than other modes of transport, so I would remind fellow MPs and citizens that the railway has a far better option and greater efficiency of mass transport and goods and passengers than any other kind of traffic. The only one that is comparable is water transport in terms of price, but not in terms of speed. The railway has a far lower consumption of power than the mass of transport, or cargo, of about 40% of the consumption compared to road traffic, and a very approximate consumption of power from water traffic. There are far less negative environmental consequences. The cost of environmental traffic damage in the EU is about 4.6% of national income, of which 92% of road traffic, 7% is air traffic, and only 1.7% of rail traffic. It has far greater security than other traffic types compared to the number of people killed in traffic accidents for the same amount of transport. Between rail and road traffic is 1:100, and the damage is 1:3,500. Finally, the possibility of traffic taking place in almost all meteorological conditions, then the comfort of travel. Let's compare air transport and rail transport where there's no air transport between city centers, and there's a railroad. In airline transport it is impossible to use today inevitable electronic devices such as computers or mobile phones, and in railways it is. Not to mention the absence of waiting for boarding and landing which in the case of air traffic is something that spends a considerable amount of time, and that is not available in rail traffic. When we add to this the high speeds of transport that exist today, unfortunately not in all countries but in some EU countries, we see how many comparative advantages railways have on other modes of transport. Taking into account all the above, it is not difficult to conclude what kind of attention rail transport should have in every country that is strategically thinking and taking care of itself and its future. I believe that a good number of listed virtues of rail transport do not fully apply in our terms, but it is not a good part and a product of bad policymaking in recent decades. The mistakes of the past cannot be corrected overnight, but in order to correct them at all, it is necessary to take the first step, which is to create assumptions for the improvement of the Serbian Railway system. It is only possible to do so by passing a law that would respect the reality in which we live and in the given conditions to try to use the best applicable world practices, stressing the applicable ones, make all benefits of rail transport available to Serbian citizens. The bill of law that lies before us should not be seen as a final solution to all problems, far from it. He should be a good basis for an upgrade that could, unfortunately, at least on the mid-term, not so quickly, make the desired results. Unfortunately, in our old custom, with reforms and the passing of this law, we are quite late. For example, the deadline for the adoption of the reformed Railway Act expired approximately two years ago, according to the EU SAA and according to the information I received. To avoid misunderstandings, delay in the adoption of this law is not just a matter of EU association. It is much more a question of sustainability of the rail system in Serbia and the rest, not to say, survival in the European rail system. I doubt even the EU's most bitter opponents want the railway trip to any foreign country to become a nightmare for Serbian citizens. So the quickest adoption of this law is imperative. What are the most important innovations this law brings? The extension of the Railway Directorate's responsibilities, the adoption of a five-year national railway infrastructure programme, which will be adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government of Serbia, whose annual implementation will be supervised by the Government and reported to the Assembly, the removal in practice of the observed shortcomings of the previous legislative solution, the modernisation of the law and its adaptation to new EU directives and the removal of the provisions relating to the safety of rail traffic in the safety and interoperability of railways law. Although the Railways Directorate was established in 2004 and has since implemented its law of intended competence, it has shown in practice that its role should be far more significant, and this expects, for the truth, for the sake of will, that is to say, Brussels, and the EU. The existence and expansion of the Railway Directorate's intelligence is not something to worry about, because it is no new political trick for the recruitment of party personnel, but our obligation in the EU accession process. I will remind you that the Railways Directorate is the heiress of the Yugoslav Railways Community, so the bodies that existed 30 years before it, and for the sake of the unbelief of Tom, I will also say that, for example, The newly-roasted EU member Croatia has two agencies that are doing the same job at the moment, which will be entrusted to the Railway Directorate after the adoption of this law. So it's more economical than it's wasteful. In the absence of time, I will not enter all the new responsibilities of the Directorate, but instead, I will try to show the importance of expanding its powers on two illustrating examples. The first is that as of June 1st 2013, railway cars from Serbia will be able to cross Serbia's border with any other country only if they get a registration authorised by the Railways Directorate and with its new powers. So if we were not to pass this law by an emergency procedure, we would be put into a situation in order to have our cars stopped at borders on 1 June 2013. Another thing that is very important amongst the many new powers received by the Railways Directorate is that by adopting all the necessary standards and obtaining all the necessary certifications, we are opening new perspectives for our car industry, and we know in what state our car industry is and what problems we had in the previous period, especially some related to privatisation in this industry, which was once one of the feathers of our industry. So we are opening up new perspectives for it by being able to produce and remount cars for European railways, which is not possible at the moment. As far as the national railway infrastructure programme is concerned, it is a planned act of national importance in the railway area. It was about time, I dare say, that the solution to the problem of Serbian railways is approached strategically and that they are looking for systemic permanent solutions, instead of partial solutions, that is to do systematic, not ad hoc fire-fighting, and then by pushing the remaining unresolved problems under the carpet. A new concept of a railway organisation in Serbia, based on its division on two separate continents in rail traffic, should also be achieved, according to the minister, more efficient management of the railway system, but I would say a higher degree of transparency in the business of the Serbian Railways, both of which were not minor in the previous period. The obligation to separate infrastructures from the transport of goods and services, however, existed in the previous 2005 law, but was not fully defined, nor had an imperative tone. Now this is more precise and far more strictly defined, thus finally opening up the space for so much needed to introduce competition in railway transport. The expected effects of this measure are to reduce budget burdens based on the subsidisation of Serbia's Railways, but also to increase the quality of rail transport. In the future, all users, and by this I mean the Serbian Railways, but also some new operators, will pay for access to rail infrastructure, by subsidising the operation of the infrastructure manager, so the difference between the charges they have and the costs they have, which will probably be, even in some starting period, which can take longer, because its economic position, therefore, is unsustainable at this point. On the other hand, the public railway undertaking will no longer be obliged to retain all non-resistable lines, except those for which the state or body of local self-government is particularly interested, in which case they will be obliged to cover business losses on those lines. So we have an economic and marketable far better orderly situation. This will create the basis that, with the inevitable and urgent rationalisation of the business even if the domestic railway carrier, I am only talking about the work of the Serbian Railways, which, after its detachment, so to speak, is said to be different – spin of, exclusively by transporting passengers and goods, becoming a viable company in some future period. As for non-covered lines, they will be given a chance by some new interested operators, who may be able to deliver positive results with better business models. Of course, their right is not only limited to those lines that are not interested in Serbia's Railways, but also for other lines, which creates practically one system in which competition will strengthen, which will eventually create conditions for increasing the quality of rail traffic in Serbia. When we add to that the fact that, as I understand it, the Russian 800 million dollar loan is on the door, intended to improve the rail infrastructure in the most part, one part is for the purchase, as I understand it, twenty locomotives, but it is certainly a smaller part of that 800 million, and I would say that this is one of the first, if not the first serious investment in railways in the last few decades, then there is a reason for optimism, provided that the future rail system, or the entire rail traffic, is handled, as our people say, domestically. As for the provisions relating to the safety of rail transport, which have been removed from the Law on Railways in the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of Railways, which is still, unfortunately, not brought in, they almost create, I apologize for having to use perhaps too strong words, but I have received such information from some parts of the professional public, some kind of legal vacuum or interregne. The law which now regulates that area, which is thirty years old, has become obsolete in a partial conflict, has given me such information, with solutions from the new Railways Act, and the most urgent adoption of the law on safety and interoperability of railways is imposed as an imperative. To conclude, this Law on Railways is in this form which today is ahead of us cannot be considered an ideal solution, if such a solution even exists, I would dare even say long-term. I don't want this to cause me to panic with the people that there's going to be some new laws being passed all the time. Not to be misunderstood doesn't mean this bill is bad. On the contrary, the proposal is good because it represents a compromise of best European practices and our current real opportunities and capacities. The best confirmation of this is the positive criticism he received from the EU, regardless of what does not contain everything that is from us at the moment, I would say, unreally requested. Just copying an EU directive or a law from some of its members would be a dead letter on paper, as the Serbian Railway, as it is at the moment, is unable to face all the challenges that such legal solutions would put before it. This does not mean that to improve this legal solution through some future changes and additions, when conditions are acquired for such a thing, we should not work in the future. The first step is to adopt as soon as possible the safety and interoperability law of the railways, which, according to my information, as well as the minister can confirm whether they are correct, is expected within the next few months. To repeat, the SDPS parliamentary group considers the proposal for a railway law to be an improvement in earlier solutions, and will support it in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15434	The word has Minister Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15435	Because after a truly great discussion and speech, Mr Bauer finally asked one question, I must inform him, and all MPs, that the Security and Interoperability Act will be passed very quickly. I hope he'll be here before you in a month. Now he's entered this famous procedure in the government. We made it and the government pleads. Thank you very much, Mr. Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15436	Thank you. Next reported is Mr. Slobodan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15437	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, members of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, was passed in 2005 by a valid Railway Act. During the seven-year monitoring of the application of this law by the Ministry of Transport, as well as the application and analysis of the effects of the application of this law by the Railway Directorate, it has been established that it is necessary to access the adoption of a new law in order to effectively carry out operations in the area of rail traffic. Minister, we congratulate you on that. This is one of the first laws in this session that is comprehensive. We don't put out the fires and go to a whole new continent. The new draft law on railways sets out the harmonisation of the rules in the area of rail traffic with relevant EU regulations, I would like to say to the directives and regulations of the European railway community. I wouldn't count it all if I wasn't wasting my time. A decision to change the legal form of the Public Enterprise "The Railway of Serbia-Belgrade" was made before the law was drawn up. The decision is on amendments and additions to the founding act of the Public Enterprise "The Railway of Serbia". Those decisions have been reorganised by the Public Undertaking "The Railway of Serbia" on a completely new and modern basis in the Action Society "The Railway of Serbia", which allows for more efficient work and business in line with market conditions. The full application of that decision was not possible without the adoption of a new law governing rail traffic and creating the necessary environment for the operation and operation of that company. The government of the Republic of Serbia has agreed on a decision to organise the Action Society "Serb-Belgrade Railway" to comply with the Law on Business Society and Consent to the Statute of the Action Society "The Railway of Serbia". The lagging behind in harmonising the regulations of the Republic of Serbia, relating to rail traffic in relation to EU regulations, as well as the lagging behind in the restructuring of the said railway undertaking, i.e. the overall rail transport system in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, has already led to its incompatibility and discrepancies with the railways of the countries in the environment and with the railways of the EU countries. This led to a disproportion in investment in railways compared to road infrastructure. The railroad is falling short. The reason is that no investor wants to invest in an unrestructured, outdated and inefficient railway. Some of the consequences are already being felt, and this is bypassing Corridor 10 as the naturally most favourable and shortest road from Western Europe to Turkey and the Middle East and turning goods flows towards alternative routes across Romania and Bulgaria. As part of harmonising the RS rules with EU rules, as is done by this law, the results of the restructuring of railways that give the Republic of Serbia a great chance to educate efficient and effective rail traffic. Given that railways are a vital part of the state transport burden, the efficiency of the railway system should be improved in order to integrate this system into a competitive transport service market, as well as that rail traffic should be made more efficient and more competitive than other modes of traffic. It is necessary that the State enables railway undertakings to be independent operators to operate in a commercial manner in accordance with market requirements. The future development and efficient operation of the railway system can be improved if there is a difference between the provision of transport services on the one hand and the management of infrastructure on the other hand, with the need to manage this concept with these two activities and that they have their own accounts, as provided for in this law. It's a very important item. One of the main objectives of rail development through restructuring is that when competition does come, these railway companies are in a strong position to survive on the market. The new Law on Railways also modernises specific parts of the laws governing access and use of railway infrastructure in order to achieve competition with regard to the provision of services to rail users in terms of improving comforts and services in general. The State retains responsibility for the development of adequate railway infrastructure. The infrastructure manager, with the consent of the Government, is required to establish rules governing the fees and prices of railway service providers for the use of railway infrastructure. The state should provide a sound financial structure, especially for an existing state-owned railway carrier. The significant paper provided for in this law refers to the introduction of a national railway infrastructure programme, which brings the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the government's proposal. This national programme is a planned act of national importance in the railway area. The solutions provided for in this bill will have a positive impact on all participants in the rail traffic process, the Railways and Business Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore the PUPS parliamentary group will support this law with improvements that will take place through a debate in principle and in particular, expressed in the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15438	The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15439	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, honourable Members of Parliament, this session began with 20 minutes late, fully in the order of the agenda. I'm talking about the railroad. We know how late the railways are. Therefore, I am glad that parliament is trending and that it follows everything that is happening in real life. When we talk about this law, we don't have any particular objections as far as the law is concerned. It's about an average regulation. It meets some of the average standards of laws proposed and adopted in Serbia. That's not the point. What's the topic? I would ask one key question – do you really think with this law you're going to solve the most difficult problems of this big system, the rail system? The problems relate to the state of infrastructure, under one, and to the party management and management of the railway system. These are the key problems that are so characteristic of "Serbian Railways". As for the content of this law, it does not result in any of these problems being solved. I have no doubt about your optimism, Mr. Minister. You have some experience in this subject. You worked in the term of last government, but it seems to me one optimism without cover. We are witnessing that previous directors-generals of the Serbian Railways were also very optimistic. Certain optimism is also suggested in statements by the current CEO, Mr. Simonovic, called Sim. It seems to me that this optimism, which adorns it, is somehow consistent and completely unfounded with these other optimisms, which we have survived, and today we find ourselves in the situation that the Serbian Railways have over 3,800 km of rail, that the average speed of these trains is about 40 km per hour, that only 2.5% of that length of the track is twofold, that we have a seriously damaged entire infrastructure, that it is no longer worth driving trains, that the engineers often don't have mirrors, so on the flea market, they buy some mirrors for 250 dinars, so they carry it in their pocket and install it as needed. We have a serious problem in this big system. What do you mean, you're solving it? You mentioned a Russian loan, and you've been mentioning it, Mr. Minister, for years. You expected it to be realized in 2011, only Putin to come, immediately afterwards, followed by the realization of the loan. To this day, this loan is not realised. It may be expected during May this year. You mentioned it, and it seems to me that the directors-generals of the Railways of Serbia mentioned it, that sooner or later, the railway would finance its entire work and management of the system. However, we only got this situation that in 2008, the government decided to turn all debts into capital from 2004 to 2008, and after that, the debts continued to grow, so today these debts are still large. I have no doubt that sooner or later the situation will be resolved in some way, it may turn into a public debt, but in any case, all these debts will sooner or later fall on the burden of the average citizen of Serbia, or on the taxpayer. So that's the situation with the optimism. I would also ask you a question about the management of Serbia's railways – was it necessary for the government to be appointed by the Director-General a few days before the application of the Public Procurement Act? It's not an exception. The directors were also appointed to the Official Messenger, and to the Colubara, and to the "Serbiagas" in the same way. This is the state's attitude towards public enterprises, i.e. to a business such as the Serbian Railways. So will the state's attitude towards Serbia's railways change in this sense of managing these companies? Apparently not. As soon as you appointed this director without a public competition, you did not wait until the Public Procurement Act entered into force. Obviously, you have shown your intention to manage the Serbian Railways. That's the problem. The problem is party management. It's not a fact that all public enterprises are huge losers. Look at Telecom. Look at the cost of this country's annual management of public enterprises. That certainly is not less than one billion euros. These are huge costs followed by the work of public enterprises and companies in which the state plays a key role in governance, and this is also done in Železnica. Let's get back to that optimism. If you really believed everything you said, if all the directors-generals were truly believed, party-set, like party prey in the Serbian Railways, what happens if that optimism ultimately shows that it was not real? Did you ever go out and say - the situation is like this, we didn't expect things to get so complicated, really with great means, the Railways had, but those funds weren't well-oriented, the responsibility is on this one, this one? There are objective and subjective responsibilities. So, did you ever go out to the Serbian citizens and say, "Building, or reconstructing miles of railway lines in Serbia costs so much and so much?" Did you go out and say – a kilometer of highway construction costs so much and so much, we installed Serbian Railways, maybe put in a bottomless hole that much and so much resources. How long did it go to build a railroad? How much did this go for the purchase of trains, cars, locomotives? How much funds has this country spent on the railways of Serbia, and how much has gone for other purposes? Have you ever gone out and said – please, Serbian citizens, we used 10% of those funds that you allocated for the Serbian Railways, and 90% we kind of spent, we had some of our funds, some of our needs? Maybe the citizens of Serbia would understand that. They cannot understand when they see that the new and new debts of the Serbian Railways are constantly under control, while driving at a rate of 10 to 15% of the speed of the trains in Japan, let's not be Japan, be it any EU country. It's inadmissible in the 21st century. Have you thought about when you talked about this law wanting to improve the efficiency of the entire rail system, that this system will not function if it stays in the way that rails are managed, as it has been done over the past 20 years? Do you know, Mr. Minister, that in Vojvodina, you have 1,700 kilometers of railroads, railways? It is 45% of the amount of railways located in Serbia's territory. Why is the problem, for example, that the management of this infrastructure, located in the territory of Vojvodina, is managed by the Vojvodina, or by the province and by the Vojvodina Government? Why is that a problem? You've never entered a way of thinking, not to tear up that unique system, but simply to advance one of its parts, by allowing Vojvodina to also have an impact on that infrastructure located on its territory. I think you're aware of how this entire railway infrastructure in Vojvodina has been devastated over the past 20 years. I think you have information about it, and the other thing is whether or not you're going to accept it, or present it to the public. When I read the Law, I paid particular attention to the problems you have defined and which you intend to solve. One of the key problems, so you even pointed out that the most important problem is that the Railways Directorate, established by the previous law, did not have the authority to adopt sublegal acts. I just don't understand what the problem is, why the government didn't do it, the government could do it automatically. That is, therefore, the most important problem that has asked you to come up with a new bill. How about the next problems? You don't define them. You're saying there's been a lot of problems. What kinds of problems? So there's no definition of which problems you intend to solve. And now you're saying why law-making is the best way to solve a problem? I just have to read you this sentence, it's very interesting. You say – adopting a new railway law is the only option for overcoming all these problems and the only way to make law enforcement practical and effective. In fact, you take this law down to the level of a sublegal act. With this law, you intend to enable the implementation and implementation of the provisions of the already existing Railway Act of 2005. So how serious this is, it's actually saying how serious you are about changing the system of functioning of public enterprises, like the government, or the business society, such as the Serbian Railways. There's no such thing as here, Mr. Minister, the real will for that kind of change, because if there were, we wouldn't be in that situation where we are today when we talk about public enterprises. There is no improvement, the nadal system is being maintained, and the costs of functioning of these public systems are only being increased. So how do you think you can somehow start this country's economy, how do you think you can change the functioning of this country, including the Serbian Railways? When you look at the Serbian Railways, what do you see? You can see that there's a lot of talk about Corridor 10, 11, that you're talking about 80, 100, 200, 300 kilometers of railroad, and you forget that it's only 10% of those railways that already exist in Serbia's territory. You are talking about a Russian loan, and there are obviously some differences between the minister and the general director of the public company of the Serbian railway company. Can these differences be characterized as differences between different political parties or can they be characterized as some kind of misunderstanding between the competent ministry and the Serbian Railways? I'll leave it to you to make a statement if you like. We simply need to note that there are differences in terms – which are going to be financed from the Russian loan. It's no small thing, if there's such a kind of misunderstanding between the minister and the director. It is only one of the indicators, how you are actually accessing reformation, reconstruction, empowerment, construction and healing of the Serbian Railways. This way can work very well, but that way only has one demagogue reach and it will be exhausted somewhere, as all previous reforms of good intentions, optimism and announcements have exhausted and there is obviously not enough power for a more serious reform, because reforms are not popular. Reforms are dangerous if you really want to get into the depth of these changes and into fundamental changes. With this bill of law, I don't see any fundamental change in the announcement. It's good, in a technical sense, that you're strengthening competition somewhere, that you're introducing the possibility of foreign railway companies, but it's only a possibility. How will the law be implemented? You don't give us much hope that you'll really, in that sense, work on implementing the law, because if it wasn't done with the previous law, why would it be done with this law. I repeat, the very way, the system of functioning of public enterprises from these companies does not change. Therefore, Mr. Minister, I would really like to draw particular attention to the fact that the Serbian Railways do not have a future in this way, they do not have a future like this country has a clear economic future. Sooner or later you'll have to break. The later it gets, the harder it will be, because the debts will grow to the point where they will become unsustainable. Today, when we talk about this big system, it is very characteristic of what the CEO of the Railways of Serbia said, and he is probably at moments of honesty -- Serbian Railways are not ready for liberalisation. This law just confirms it. What you state in the law, that you will bring the accompanying regulations, or sublegal acts within 24 months of the date of entry into force of this law, is exactly what it points to. You will hardly introduce any kind of liberalism in the management of the Serbian Railways. The experience we have with... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... By functioning the railways, it's actually telling us that it's just impossible.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15440	Minister Mrkonjic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15441	To thank Mr. Jeremic, whom I did not thank, I now have to discuss again. Mrs. Popovic, you're a beautiful young woman. These guys are laughing, punks, they know what I mean. Don't talk to me about human policy. In 2008, I became a minister. All these young people, except for this woman at the end of the beautiful one, were then the assistants of Mr. Ilic and the rest are mine today. So, my approach, except maybe you, I think the MPs here and all the citizens of Serbia who know me know me. I've never run a policy of politics in human policy. Three assistants have been from Velina's government since 2004-2008, and are now here. As far as personnel policy is concerned, of course there's a lot I don't agree with, to take it off the agenda, but if one party in this country has such power, then let's run it, what's the problem? He's responsible for the personnel he's setting up and I've accepted it, but the traffic minister is still me. I'm responsible for all these people. You only mentioned one here that doesn't matter to me right now. For all those people you're talking about, I'm responsible, as I've been responsible for both the Director of the Aviation Agency and the Directorate and for JAT for four years, etc. If you see any problems here, then I really accept your every criticism. Staff policy, the kind you're talking about, don't give me credit. All your reviews are good, I accept them. I don't accept one. Well, Mr. Bauer said -- we have to take the first step to change something on the railroad. Of course, governments before me have had that opportunity since 2000, so they haven't worked. Nothing's new about detachment of infrastructure from traffic. Europe has been doing this for years. We didn't do it. We started last term, and here we go. So that's where my optimism is from. We're going to separate the infrastructure traffic, we're going to bring a five-year national investment programme into a rail infrastructure that's catastrophic, and we're going to finally have after so many years, and I'm 40 years in the railway, the first time a law is going to say what and how much we need to spend to get that infrastructure, to get those tracks to some level. That's where my optimism is from. It's a very important fact. You've already praised and I agree with that, we have the opportunity to open the market for other operators, not only to drive the railways. There are also people in Serbia today who have means of driving and who compete, but can't for these or those reasons. So that's another thing that this law provides, that everyone participates in the free market, so to speak, in the market for these rail services that today requires our economy. It's another important thing. The third important thing, this railway directorate, that Mr. Bauer also spoke well of, she has this regulatory role in the realisation of these projects and the railway programme itself. These are news that are quite enough for this law, which we have not had so far, to bring us closer to the EU. These are possibilities and preconditions. I agree with you, a law that we don't respect doesn't mean anything, but I'm going to try as long as I'm a minister that we respect this law as much as possible and that what we're talking about here today and what we're going to talk about today is really starting to live. We all know what the situation is in the railways, and I won't be coming back for years, because as the oldest among you here and as an expert, I have the highest responsibility, because it's been talked about for years. We didn't do it, unfortunately. On Corridor 10, which you're talking about, by rail, there's half a line of one-wheel tracks, which is unimaginable. It's not the worst track from Saturday to New Now, it's only one track, but it's a flat terrain so it looks relatively good. It's the worst railroad from Nis to Dimitrovgrad. It's like the wild west out there, like Texas. There's little bandits out there and the train can't get through. That's what was inherited from the past on the railroad. I'm not defending the railroad. We need to change that, and that's why we took that Russian loan and that's why we took the Czech loan. It's not true that you don't know what's in the Russian loan, five, six, seven projects. What's the big deal? Someone might think there's something a third person needs, but a decision about it will be made by the government and we'll know exactly what project we're entering. Besides, one thing is just as important. I'll tell you right now, while I'm on credit, Europe, and you know it, most of you know it very well, today both European banks that are most convincingly favourably giving loans to the entire master's line. So it's a European project and it's logical. It's Turkey's link to the EU. It's Europe's interest, and that's why the money problem isn't, the problem is in other things. We don't have ready documentation, projects, etc. That's why what's going on over the papers is happening, we're fighting over what and how to do it. The other nothing. Anyone can think what they want, but the government of the Republic of Serbia will bring a view of what funds they will fund. Today, in addition to the Russian loan, we have two large loans of one hundred million from the EBRD, which are financed by the vehicles. We gave the first trains right in Vojvodina. When we talk about this Belgrade-Budapest railway, it will probably be, in my opinion, the first to enter into work. Remember, we haven't built a track, not a mile of track in the last 20 years. What railroad were we building? We started Valjevo-Losnica and stopped. None, we're just repairing and maintaining what we have as it is. This law will create preconditions to change that too. Therefore, investment in railways is not disputed, but we must prepare for it humanely and professionally, and therefore optimism is both my and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia in the programme of modernising Serbian railways. It is one of the biggest projects in Serbia today. That's why I accept the criticism, everything you said. As far as I'm concerned, I accept. Don't realize now that I'm like something angry, no, except for this personnel structure. Here, these are these young people sitting right here next to me. Among them, I hope, is the future minister. They're not members of any party, and even that young lady at the end, my chief of staff. They're all young people. Even she was the head of Mr. Boris Tadic's protocol. So I'm not a man who absolutely doesn't rely on people who know something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15442	The word has Mrs Popovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15443	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me start from the beginning. So that's the optimism you're talking about, which was as characteristic of the previous government as you were minister, as well as the previous government. You keep saying something, we will, we will, and you will not determine that zero point from which something really moves and changes. You keep talking about some big hopes, big intentions, and we sort of keep hanging out. The status quo is a notorious fact, and if the status quo, it literally leads to one failure. That's what I was talking about and I said and I defined why it was like that. It is party management of these major public systems. You just didn't deny my thesis. It is indeed the greatest danger, the cancer of the entire economy and the economic progress of this country. One more thing, Mr. Minister. As you started answering me after my discussion, I think you have some kind of misbehavior and some kind of misogyny here. I really don't expect you to look at me in any way that I'm young, whether I'm beautiful or not, that's not the point at all. Mr. Minister, I'm here as the folk letter with which you are laying down. I understand that it is difficult to be a European, given that this kind of change was made during the walk. This will also be said to you by Mr. President of the Assembly, who did not find it appropriate to respond adequately after an attack by protected hooligans on LDP leader. So that's what we're talking about. You can't be Europeans if you don't accept standards that adorn Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15444	Truth be told, you're wrong about this, because I'm one of the few people who reacted, but it doesn't matter. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15445	I didn't understand one word you said, but it doesn't matter. When you speak and when you criticise, no matter how much I know all MPs don't have the same knowledge from the area I deal with, but then you have to have facts. You say, "You promised and did nothing." By 2008, I remind you of the numbers, no one in the leadership of the state knew what corridors were. The corridors have been talked about since 1991. Unfortunately, I was involved in all these agreements right in the area of traffic infrastructure. We made the first kilometers for these four years right through Vojvodina. We finished that famous highway. Why don't you say so? Now you get to Budapest, when I say in two hours, journalists will laugh, they say – The Dark drives at a higher speed, but you arrive. Why don't you say so? How did you travel until then? We made this one bridge, then the second bridge, then the third bridge, with great effort and great problems. We've secured funds for the entire corridor 10. We've secured a billion and 200 million. The entire Corridor 10 is being built. Slow, there's a problem, but we're building. We're trying to hire our operatives, our people. Why don't you say so? Why don't you say -- well done, that government did it? Not Mrkonjic, not me, but the government. The whole government and the state are behind these projects. That's the point. That's true. It's going slow, Mrako doesn't know how to do it, take the other one. Here, there are young people here. Tomorrow they can sit in my seat and the end. You always criticize and here you say – you said I was a beautiful woman. Well, I said what now? I guess I can say that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15446	The word has Mrs Popovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15447	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you forgot to say you're building a 10-mile highway a year, that roughly in those categories you're moving and any kind of reconstruction, revitalization of railway lines. You forgot to mention that. With this pace, I don't know when we will actually complete this kind of modernisation of the road network infrastructure and the railway network in Serbia. You haven't said a word about it. You haven't even said how much it costs to actually build a mile of highway, given the huge money that's invested in it. You didn't even say how much this whole optimistic story cost about the Serbian Railways and how much more we're going to have to pay to reach some bearable level of functioning of that system.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15448	The word has the Minister Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15449	You didn't even ask me that, so now you're asking me and I'm telling you right now. You're wrong again, I'm sorry. I know, you're often traveling north, so how many from Novi Sad to Sudotica, so how many around Belgrade passes, so how many are down in the south, so that's not 10 kilometers, and that's what the country did faster. You keep mentioning Croatia, and you don't know 14 years people have worked all the ministers are in jail because there is corruption, etc. There is no such thing in Serbia for now, at least not in the corridors. So, they're wrong, not 10, 220 kilometers, the government has done so far on Corridor 10. She opened 60 kilometers on Corridor 11 and it's being built that's what the facts are. Don't come in with the numbers like that, say what's true, and then we can do something about it. So, the modernisation of Serbian railways, and you got that, we've already spoken here several times, the whole modernisation of the track on Corridor 10 from Subotica via Nis to Vranja and to Presev and Dimitrovgrad, so towards Zagreb, it ends up and brings it to 160km per hour, to be two-wheeled everywhere, to be electrocuted everywhere and for mixed traffic costs four billion and 600m euros. That's been 20 years. Since then, we've done nothing to improve this to this government now. Therefore, everyone knows that and it is Serbia's developmental chance and it only speaks of Corridor 10, not Corridor 11 because it is the Belgrade-Bar track. That's how much it costs, and we know it. Nine documents were signed by Serbia, i.e. the old ex Serbia-Yugoslavija, and the last one was signed by Mr. Vuk Draskovic five or six years ago when he was minister that what I am saying is our obligation until 2017. It's true and we know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15450	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15451	Mr. President, honourable ministers, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen, we have already received answers to some questions, since my predecessors have already had an exhibition on decentralisation of rail transport in Serbia, you will not blame Mr. Ministers for us from Vojvodina being generally extremely interested in the issue of rail transport, given the economic potential we see in the province and what Vojvodina once had in that area. Today, the system of decades of decline and extremely difficult condition is both in the transport of goods and in the transport of passengers. I would not say very much what counterpart Pastor has already said, but I must mention that when Vojvodina entered Serbia, that is, Yugoslavia entered the line of 2,200km. Of which today is only about 1500 in use, and of which is 500 and something in the corridors, and 1200 is in extremely difficult condition, or not used at all. The first train that was trafficling between Mercury and Manchester was moving at a speed of 56 kilometers an hour, and I'm talking about 1829. Today, unfortunately, the average train speed in Serbia is about 40km per hour. From Saturday to Belgrade, it was three hours and 15 minutes in 1926, 1989, about two hours, and today it is three hours and eight minutes. At the time, in 1918, there were 8.7km of railways, which was the most developed rail transport network in Europe. For 15 years since Vojvodina autonomy, there has been jurisdiction over rail transport from 1977 to 1989 in Vojvodina, 527km of railways have been remounted, all electrified, more than 10 electric locomotives, 10 electric trains and other equipment have been purchased. The zero phase of the train tracking information system was introduced, steam draw was abolished, more than 100 freight wagons were purchased, 20 modern passenger cars for up to 200km per hour. Vojvodina then had 44 electric locomotives, 10 electric trains, 94 diesel locomotives, 13 steam locomotives, 67 shinobuses, 161 passenger cars with 17,000 seats and 600 beds, as well as over six thousand freight wagons. Since you said we should talk about data, or to argue with facts, I think these are facts that few people can dispute. Twenty thousand passengers were then transported by train, which is extremely important for the transport of people in Vojvodina due to the configuration of the terrain. Today it's a little over 400, 500, and I'm talking about data on a daily basis, provided that some of these lines are actually being trafficked. We all know that the situation in that area is extremely difficult, but whenever in the past we try to initiate, first of all, organizational changes in the area of rail transport and we apostrophe that some level of decentralisation is needed because there are economic reasons for it, we generally get labels that it's separatism and it's transferred to some political field. I don't think I have any need for that because we're talking exclusively about economic coordinates. For us, rail transport, I repeat, has an exceptional importance. As this data shows, I think that in Vojvodina very well knew how to manage rail transport, and I don't see why this would be a problem if again in the future, I wasn't talking about corridors that aren't corridors, and through the Directorate and through infrastructure management, a certain level of these competencies were transferred to the province where then some priorities could be defined at regional level. In this proposal, there is only one such possibility that in the event that infrastructure managers do not have an economic calculation, only in this case they can transfer management to that infrastructure at local, or regional level. I also don't think there's a reason why it would equalise local and rural levels, since I think few municipalities in Serbia can single out funds at all and invest in railway infrastructure. Unfortunately, and that you are the biggest centralist today, which I have stated in one of the previous exhibitions and that you want there to be no local self-government, no province, when you go to Belgrade to get some paper, since you need Saturday for almost four hours, that wish will leave you. In particular, I have a neighbor who traveled from Sremska Mitrovica to Čortanovac for eight hours. In eight hours, you can reach many of the world's metropolis and back. Really, I don't want to be malice, because I know that this law is something that needs to involve us in European traffic, as far as rails are concerned, and that maybe the lawmaker's intensity is good, but since it's been done very little since the early '90s, is it because of the lack of funds, whether for other reasons, I don't know, but until we see concrete shifts in terms of these railways starting to build, really getting trains and getting from place A to place B, in some normal time, I don't see a reason why we would support activities, because the administrative measures, because the 2005 law didn't really bring anything, and this very little changes. We don't see what's going to happen exactly new to modernize this domain. The main problem in "Serb Railways", I think, is that those who decide on rail transport are not driven by trains, if they were driven by trains, rather than by their official cars, would probably be slightly different from that problem. I understand that four billion euros should be invested in order for corridors to be built, but there are really some things that have no justification for driving, hygiene, maintenance, etc., and I don't think that those who do so should really have an excuse. As for us from LSV, we've given some amendments. I repeat, I think they're constructive. We do not want to politicise, too much of this issue, but let us have a certain initiative so that a certain level of activity can be transferred to the province, and I am sure it would benefit both you and those who are today managing "Serb Railways". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15452	According to Article 27 and Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a regular break of one hour. We'll be back to work at 3:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15453	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. Any of the authorised representatives who didn't use the right to report? The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15454	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, the honourable representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, I want to point out the two facts that characterize this moment, and when we talk about rail traffic. First of all, rail traffic today in Serbia is in a very difficult situation, first because of the absence of serious reforms, and on the other hand, we all understand that we must use this moment to start serious reforms, if we are counting on rail traffic at all, as a very important type of traffic in the coming period. The second fact is that if we look at the last decades and invest in rail traffic, we have not had a more serious approach from one government to rail traffic, as far as investment itself is concerned, and in part we have participated as MPs, who have ratified certain agreements and loans, first of all from the Russian Federation, and then from the Kuwaitian Economic Fund, but also in harmonising and harmonising our regulation. I will remind you that in January, the assembly adopted the Convention on the Participation of Serbian Railways in International Traffic. Of course, I am not saying that I would praise the government in which the United Regions of Serbia participate, but simply, as someone who has been actively monitoring and actively participating in the work of Serbian railways for the past 20 years and someone whose family tradition in rail traffic has been measured for decades. I will remind you that the current Law on Railways adopted in the National Assembly in 2005, promised precisely significant reforms, promised that division that we are talking about today on infrastructure and transport, thus promising competition in rail traffic, which was meant to bring the desired quality, efficiency and safety in rail traffic. The law then once again promised a more serious management of railway property, and I will remind you that railway property accounts for about 12% of the total property of the Republic of Serbia, which is certainly not a negligible resource. The law then predicted that the name "The Railway-Transport Company of Serbia" would change to "The Railways of Serbia". Unfortunately, this last one is mostly fully fulfilled, and what I have led to today, we haven't had any major shifts. The first association when we talk about Serbian railways, and this was said by some of my previous colleagues, despite the fact that in recent years, a lot has been done by large involvement of people working in the "Serb Railways", on the regularity of rail traffic, the first associations are exactly delays, train shortages, cold, unlit trains in the winter period, a large number of committees, traditional users of railway services, first of all in goods, in freight traffic, who left the railways as carriers, and what certainly citizens know is one of the basic railway associations, are the significant subsidies that the state singles each year for "the railways of Serbia", and without which this action society could not work. So, it's clear to everyone and there's no one in this room, nor in the "Serb Railways", nor in the ministry, nor in the government, who would ignore the fact that the railway is in a difficult situation today, and it's good to know how difficult this is, but certainly that this difficult situation is not just because of some subjective failures, I would say first of all, that the difficult situation is on the railway and the reduction of the volume of transport and passengers, and the burden has been created as a result of reduced economic activity, reduced needs for rail services, but also as a result of poor organisation, poor social, poor staff policies in "Serbian Railways". Chronicly not investing in railway infrastructure is also one of the important factors that has brought today's railways into a difficult situation. Finally, I must say that one of the reasons why the railway is in this situation is the inapplicability of the Law on Railways, previously mentioned, which was adopted in this Assembly in 2005, which has certain gaps and which today's law we are discussing should be corrected. All of this suggests, and we heard some data, that today from 3,809 kilometers of railway network, 1,768 kilometers are highway tracks, and that only 32.7% are electrified. Only 7% of the track or 276 kilometers has two tracks, only 45% of the track has a 22.5-tonne axle load, while at 30% of the track this load is below 16 tonnes. The permitted speed goes 100km per hour to only 3.2% of the track, and the majority of the track, about 50% of the network, allows maximum speed of up to 60km with the exception of individual sections of the Belgrade-Shid railway, the Greater Plan-Nish, which are two-wheeled, electrified and on some stakeholders allow for higher speed. All other railways have outdated technical and technological parameters. Even in some sections of these tracks there are shares in very poor condition, so speed is often temporarily limited to 20 kilometers per hour. Railways are officially equipped with 480 locomotives, 8,500 freight cars and 550 passenger cars. Tow and towed vehicles are relatively old and unreliable, which does not rarely result in driving defects. This is just statistics. About 100 locomotives a day, and that's good information, it can run through Serbia's rails. In the last year, 320 seats in a total length of 535km were introduced on Serbia's railways, representing 16% of all railways involved in exploitation. The modernisation of railway infrastructure in the last decade has invested a modest 168m euros, and has been remounted about 136km. It is clear to all of us that these data do not paint an efficient system ready to become part of the European rail system. I am not presenting this information to criticise someone, to look for the culprit, but to remind and warn how necessary it is to invest in Serbian railways in the coming period. I will repeat once again that none like this government has so far taken so seriously into investment in rail infrastructure. A logical question arises – what is necessary to do today in Serbia to move the railway system from a dead spot, to become part of development instead of burdens and problems, and to become part of a major European traffic system, as we all say and what is the urgency of this law? In the first place, it is necessary to adopt laws which are applicable and which will be consistently applied. Secondly, it is necessary to invest significantly in railway infrastructure, then align the rules in the area of rail traffic with relevant EU regulations, as well as the use of positive EU experiences and ultimately the improvement of safety and interoperability of rail traffic. Of course, the listed components of the railway reform are interlinked and harmonised. When the law was passed in 2005, and today a very important and important place was just to raise the level of rail services to such a extent that they could at least participate in this large European traffic system in a partially similar or close manner. However, the first association when I talk about the participation of our railways is a discrepancy between Serbian railways and European railways and we are right on track, Italy's Pendolina, Simensov's German fast train, then a French TŽV that has commercial speeds of over 300km, without talking about some of the fastest speeds of 570 and a few kilometers for TŽV. However, I am saying all of this not to say how bad Serbian railways are, but how serious must we approach reform of Serbian railways and how much time we do not have to wait for this reform to join. Did Serbian railways have similar problems with European national railways over the past 20 years? Of course, it is also the experience of European railways, the EU railways can be a good indicator of what and how we should do at these times when we have finally decided to reform the rail system. The only difference is that they did this reform 20 years before us. Anyway, we can use their experience. Back in 1957, the European Economic Community began designing a common traffic policy. In 1962, a series of directives, recommendations, regulations and rules routed the common policy of the Single Transport Market. In 1975, the start of the legal regulation of the railway sector was established by Directive 75/327, which referred to harmonisation of the rules relating to the financial relations of railway undertakings. The main objective of this Directive was to improve the situation of rail traffic due to a significant decline in the transport of goods and passengers. At this very age, there is a huge expansion of road traffic primarily due to the cheap price of oil derivatives. It is clear that EU countries have been forced to take certain steps to make rail transport more accessible and attractive. This is exactly what I'm saying, in addition to repeating, subjective problems and problems that are characteristic of our country alone, there are problems that have been present both in the railways and in much more developed countries. In 1991, the modern regulation begins with the adoption of Directive 91/440. The main objective of this Directive is to establish a legal basis for the restructuring of national railways. The basic guidelines of this Directive are the basis for reforms of rail traffic in the EU. When we read these guidelines in Directive 91/440, we also know that when we compare them with the chapters and articles of the law that we are talking about today, that in our law, which we are discussing today, all of these guidelines have been incorporated and positive experience has been incorporated from the restructuring of national railways from the EU. I will read the guidelines set out in Directive 91/440. They relate to the integration of national rail systems into Europe's transport system, as well as to improving efficiency and co-operation with other modes of traffic, then eliminating the country's monopoly on integrated public enterprises, separating traffic on infrastructure and traffic organisations from goods and passenger traffic, the responsibility of the state for maintaining, developing and using transport infrastructure, guarantees for free, liberal, non-discriminatory access to rail infrastructure, all interested operators, as well as the state's obligations towards infrastructure manager in terms of financial liquidity competence. It is clear that these guidelines are the basis of the law that we are discussing today. The fact that this concept of a single rail system was not fully revived in the EU by 1991 and that, if I may say, overcame road traffic led to certain problems in the very functioning of the traffic system. There has been a disturbance in traffic security, the process itself in environmental protection is at risk, so in 2001, by publishing a second white book, the European Commission went into an even more determined fight to promote rail traffic. In 2001. The European Commission comes out with three packages of directives and regulations redefine relations between the state and the railways, division of rail operations in the organisational and financial sense, regulation of the railway network, certification to operators. Directive 2001/12 contains the amendments to Directive 91/440 and defines the obligation to form a regulatory body to ensure equal, non-discriminatory access to infrastructure and to all interested operators. It is in the Law on Railways, which we are discussing today, that one of the key places is exactly the regulatory body, meaning the Railway Directorate, which, of course, is the intensity of the law, that an independent body in one non-discriminatory way regulates the rail traffic market. The second package concerned legal and technical conditions of interoperability. The third package of directives and regulations refers to defining the measures and raising the quality of transport in international passenger and freight transport, as well as the measure to control the employment capacity of employees. As for the fourth package adopted in January this year, some will say there has been a certain withdrawal by the European Commission in an effort to fully liberalise the railway market. I would say that the European Commission is trying to find the best possible solution to the promotion of rail traffic at this difficult financial moment, taking all the benefits of rail traffic it is providing today. I say once again that in addition to our subjective problems in Serbia's railways in our environment, it is clear that much more advanced and richer countries have also had problems with rail restructuring, which only suggests that this is a very complex problem. In some previous discussions, we have unfortunately heard a certain level of banalisation of problems in rail traffic, once again, a very complex type of traffic. As far as the legal solution itself is concerned, it is clear that the intensity of the infrastructure and transport has been shared and I would not particularly explain the chapter concerning the infrastructure manager, where the most detailed details of the reasoned obligation, competence and responsibility of the infrastructure manager, are then the transport users themselves. As I said, Chapter 3 defines the obligations of the Railway Directorate, which assumes the regulatory role of the railway market, but also the role of regulators in the area of security and interoperability. I would touch another important segment in rail traffic reform, not diminishing the importance of the law I'm talking about today, which is investing in infrastructure. Repeated for the third time, the government is seriously investing in railway infrastructure both through Russian credit and through a loan from the Kuwaitian Fund for Economic Development and other funds and other European loans. Without serious investment in rail infrastructure, there is no reform of rail traffic. Of course, thanks to the encouraging investment in Corridor 11, the steel cookhouse of rail traffic in Serbia, but as it comes from the Zlatibor County, from Užica, I always welcome and insist on investing in the Belgrade-Bar railway line and I always point out that in just four months last year, a bar track from Kragujevac for Bar was carried around 40,000 Fijat cars. Citizens of western Serbia expect this government to invest seriously in Corridor 11 and railways, as well as travellers. At the very end, all the facts and very difficult situations in which our railways are located, aware of the complexity of the reforms that await our railways, but also of all the problems that all the railway organisations in Europe have, in much richer and much more medium-sized countries than with us, we from the URS will support this legal solution by expecting that in the coming period both the Government and the Resord Ministry and the Railway Directorate to make every effort to apply this law. In particular, I must stress that we also expect a high degree of seriousness from the management of the railway company in Serbia. I have to say, over the past years and decades, there have been a lot of gaps in the work of this public company and today, in the company of shareholders. This time, the state invests in the railways, no further excuse not to invest seriously in the railways. We expect from management a completely new approach, a whole new business philosophy, a single fight on the market, because it was a time when the Serbian Railways expected Serbia to give money for wages. Serbia's railway must earn its salary in the coming period, as is the law. We're sure that's how it's gonna be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15455	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15456	Mr. Minister, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs were very good at discussing distinguished colleagues. It seems to me that he's been conducting some optimism that is small and unrealistic given the current situation and I'm going to look back on what our parliamentary group expects from the law, because we've been seriously dealing with the problem of rail and rail traffic all these years, and we've been pointing to the need for a law like this to come into the assembly procedure and to perform a serious procedure in the reform of rail traffic in our country. What would be the first picture of the bill's assessment is that the very text of the law has no intention of objecting. We have so far had strategies and attempts to reform and modernise railways with partial successes. The problems of the Serbian railway are not only problems that burden our railways, similar problems across the region, somewhere more, somewhat less pronounced, but we do think that the mild-term countries in the environment, especially EU member states, have been dealing with problems and have dealt with them in a good way. Today, we have a situation where 17% of goods and passengers are transported by rail traffic in EU countries. Our railways do not seem to be competitive with passenger traffic, road traffic, air traffic, but it seems to us that with this condition they cannot be competitive in the region and therefore we have a situation that often bypasses Serbia during transport and increasingly chooses the central European roads to Southeast Europe via Romania and Bulgaria. What would be a very short assessment and not only a professional assessment but also a layman's assessment, the assessment of all our citizens, is that our railway stations are deserted and abandoned, that trains are old, that dirty windows, wagons, they've worn out the door, that the average speed on many railways is somewhere around 30 or a little more than 30 kilometers per hour, that many unsecured railway crossings, that the railways have run out, that it's important to reduce the safety of the transport of passengers and goods and that we unfortunately don't use enough measures and this huge potential called the Belgrade-Bar railway and the port of Bar. For all these reasons, we have been importing and exporting more goods through Croatian ports than through the port of Bar. One question is, who's responsible for all this? I think it's primarily the responsibility of the state, that there was a lack of reforms that had to be initiated by the state, a serious strategy and following up on human problems and a kind of irresponsibility that can't be done with justice, like paying a penalty for untapped funds. Minister, in public, it implements information that these foames reach 10 billion euros for untapped and undrawn funds. I mean the previous loans, but I'm asking if that information is correct? The justification for this is that management did not call tenders in good time to withdraw those funds and because the funds were blocked, that foams were paid. We hope that this will not be the case with the Russian $800 million loan that we have all voted for in this National Assembly and with great optimism we expect these funds to be directed where most necessary. Secondly, what experts are objecting to, which is, of course, that the state has to help the railways, it does all the countries in the world, it will always be, it's not, it's not an economically profitable mode of transport, but that really these funds are often wasted, and that often there's an impression that management is not so interested that the more it transports passengers and goods, the more they simply have, however, not big enough wages, I think of all the employees in the railways, but that they're simply paid in some way. Next thing you know, it wasn't something that was the subject of enough concern and enough interest. It's not the problems that burden our rail problems that have arisen only as a result of that system we've been fighting for a long time. The problems arise and they occur in all countries and more developed countries, as far as rail traffic is concerned, but what is the response of the serious states, that they react in a timely manner to all the problems observed, even when we introduced the first railway of Belgrade – Nis and when the first passenger traffic was established on September 3, 1884. It's a day celebrated as the Day of the Serbian Railways. We had problems before because the country was in an economically difficult state. We couldn't follow conventions from the Berlin Congress, so in 1880 a new convention was signed. We received a new three-year deadline to build the Belgrade-Vranje railway and connect Serbia to the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria at the time. And that deadline was broken by 18 months late. But what is characteristic of this period is that the rail traffic in Serbia was at the very end of the 19th and early 20th century perhaps at the highest level and that it was some golden age of rail traffic. There were reforms in both the '70s and the '80s and the electrification of the railway network, but here we are today, I think, with only 32% of our rails. The latter provide with a narrow track, if I'm not mistaken, were abolished in 1982, but as important as rail traffic shows and the removal of the rail with a narrow track, because it is simply through places and settlements where these railways have passed, and no rail with a wide track was made, it was simply economically felt by all the people and the population living in that territory. As a consequence, among other things, we also had the migration of the population from these areas. Because of the very great losses, due to the great loss of energy, due to thousands of departures at the annual level, because now it takes more time to reach the White Field than in some time before to arrive, and passenger and transport railway traffic, because of the fact that our locomotives and wagons with average age are close to 40 years, it really takes a major and serious state operation, but also leadership. The Serbian Renewal Movement and the DHSS will always support everything that goes in that direction, but we would not be too euphoric and overly optimistic to approach and expect in the coming period to solve all the problems that burden rail traffic, because we have, in addition to these systemic mistakes concerning the railway itself, had a number of political mistakes, so in the 1990s, instead of doing what almost all the parties are doing on Serbia's political scene, instead of seeking Serbia's membership in the EU, we went to conflicts that were unnecessary, which cost our country the most, which ultimately led to NATO aggression. NATO aggression, that should be said, seems to me that no one mentioned it today, destroyed much of the railway infrastructure, and simply that part of the damage is attributed to war damage. It is true that the last few years of the state and the resolution ministry are in some way being, but it seems to us that it is within a minute to 12, because we have, for countless years back in this House, pointed out the need for comprehensive solutions concerning the modernisation and reform of rail traffic, but also much clearer and much more open access to the spending of huge subsidies that Serbia gives to the AD Railways of Serbia on an annual basis. If we look at every segment of the operation that the state is in charge of, if we look at the railway stations, if we look at the state railways, if we look at the state trains and the cars, we'll see that the state had no serious and responsible relationship with the railways. This is, unfortunately, a picture of the state of the country. What the SPO with DHSS has been seeking since its founding is that we have simple rail traffic that is at the level of the most developed countries in Europe. It does not need to be reminded, and anyone who has had the opportunity to drive trains in developed EU countries knows that it is one of the most comfortable and one of the safest modes of transport, and quite cheap, that railway stations everywhere in the world are representative objects, are not mockery, are not the shame of a country. I once mentioned it in the National Assembly. It has happened to many of our officials to tell an experienced story that many foreign diplomats and officials when they really want to host someone in particular, take them to a restaurant at a train station, because they are really very often representative facilities, such as a train station in Madrid, which is one of the real Botanical gardens or railway stations in Munich. I've been a couple of times, and I believe you, too. A number of issues are also raised, as regards solving some specific problems, from the problem of moving the train station to Nis, whose shift would be more expensive than revitalisation and reconstruction of the existing railway station, which is a preconvincing that railway stations must be on the periphery of the city of a more demantuum-developed European country, where railway stations are located in the very centre of the city, such as the mentioned train station in Munich, which is immediately next to Marijan's salary, which is a panda for our Prince Michael Street. Regardless of the local pressures that are often not based on the basis of professional arguments and experiences of other better-organised countries in this regard, if the removal of the mentioned railway station and railways is more expensive than its revitalisation and modernisation, then the ministry and the leadership of the Serbian Railways simply cannot give in to this type of pressure, in my humble belief, give way. What SPO and DHSS expect in the future, we expect a much more open way of controlling state subsidies. Then we expect the Russian loan to be directed where it is most needed. It is clear to all of us that it is infrastructure and reconstruction of tow and degree by degree that we seek not only reform, but modernization, modernisation, but also changes in many habits. I know this transmission is certainly seen by people from the AD Railways of Serbia, but definitely, we have a system there that's quite bewitched, which is in some kind of lethargy and that really needs, first of all, the state to wake up and do everything my respected colleagues have talked about and what I was talking about on behalf of our parliamentary group. Serbia, unfortunately, is now and at a time of the global economic crisis and alone is in crisis resolving issues that should have been resolved significantly earlier, but this is not up to the SPO and the DHSS. It's good for our political scene that everyone now thinks the way we've been thinking. First of all, I'm thinking about the years 1990 to 2000. Minister, I think it's good for both you and your political party for accepting the reality of the modern age. I won't complain much about what policy you used to have and how much it cost all of us and you and the citizens of Serbia. It's clear to everyone and it's visible to everyone. What I expect is that this way of leading the state and accessing politics never happens again. It was difficult at that age for all of us who were on the side of normal Serbia to endure all kinds of political pressures. You know that most often because of these attitudes that have now been accepted, we have received stamps of traitors and foreign mercenaries and people's enemies, etc. But I will not personally transfer your political party too much for all your policy mistakes. What I expect in the future is that much less mistakes do not happen again and that all of this is your intention and that, I see, and the intention of almost all the MPs, and I believe that all of Serbia's citizens have an effective system, that we come out of the tromitude and finally begin in that part of our action to look like a serious state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15457	MP Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15458	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, at the beginning of my presentation, I would like to express my satisfaction on behalf of the NS parliamentary group, which is a large number of essential amendments, which the NS parliamentary group has submitted in the previous term, included in this law, so that in one indirect way we also consider us as people who participated in the creation of this law. There has been no change to the Law on Railways since 2005. This law is seen as a law which aims to improve the capacity of the railway system and this law, in our deep opinion, creates conditions for the independent business of railway undertakings, with increased competitiveness and improved quality of rail transport in general. I also consider a good provision of this law that the separation of the rail system must in some way be done by detachment for the steering part when it comes to infrastructure and the part responsible for transport in passenger and freight traffic. In my deep opinion, this law also has two very precise solutions when it comes to intermodal, combined traffic, but also the competences of the Railway Directorate, which are very precisely defined by this law. When it comes to combined transport, I believe that Article 83 is very clear in order to improve combined transport that the government is regulating this area and very clear state aid and stimulating measures, and when we recently discussed the Energy Efficiency Act, we pointed out the advantages of combined traffic and many colleagues pointed out that just combined traffic is cleaner, that we have very little pollution and it is very important to define this traffic precisely and further improve it. As for the Directorate, the big problem so far has been that the powers of the Directorate have not been correctly specified, in the sense that the Directorate could not bring in sublegal acts, and the jurisdiction of the Railway Directorate has been very clearly specified and, as you, Mr Minister, said, the Directorate is now a body for licensing and the regulatory body and security. I would also agree with my colleague, Baure, who said this law for the first time clearly provides that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopts a national railway infrastructure programme on a proposal from the government. In this way we clearly have a national programme involving the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The problem of the previous law was that it was not in line with EU law and was also a problem that was not applied in practice and unfortunately, with the restructuring in railways under the previous law did not continue. The direct consequence of this was disproportionate investment in railways and road traffic. So more has been invested in road traffic. Again, the question arises – who should invest in unrestructured and inefficient railways? As a consequence, we had railway transport, instead of Corridor 10, as naturally the most suitable and shortest route from Western Europe to Turkey and the Middle East, taking alternative routes across Romania to Bulgaria. The new law harmonizes all its solutions with the EU legal framework and, regardless of the fact that in Western European countries, the market share in most railways began to decline in the 50s as a result of the transition of the economy from a traditionally difficult industry to the service and retail industry, however, these legal solutions in EU countries have produced some results. I think it is clear to all of us that the Serbian Railways in this form cannot withstand a competition that will certainly emerge as a result of the adoption of this law and therefore a fundamental reorganisation of this public enterprise is necessary. Given that the Railway is a vital part of the transport sector, I consider it to be a very important provision of this law that will allow railway operators to be granted the status of independent operators. In this way, they will operate on a commercial basis and in line with market requirements. The future development and efficient functioning of the railway system can only be improved if the difference between the provision of transport services and infrastructure management is made. Regardless of the incentive of competitiveness, I consider it very responsible that the state remains responsible for the development of railway infrastructure, and the law defines that the infrastructure manager, with the consent of the Government, is obliged to establish the rules governing both the fees and prices of railway undertakings' services for the use of railway infrastructure, which must respect the principle of non-discrimination between railway undertakings. This law also provides for incentives to manage railway infrastructures, to reduce costs and to manage rail infrastructure as efficiently as possible, and in this respect I believe that certain contracts to be signed between local self-governments and the previous provinces and government will produce some results in terms of reducing the cost of rail infrastructure management. I believe that these revenues, which will thus be achieved, will significantly reduce the subsidies that the state of Serbia is currently giving for the railway, which, as a direct positive objective of this law, will have to disburse the budget. This law regulates the public transport obligation of passengers in a way that is regulated by European countries, and these legal solutions are more precise and efficient than traditional state aid to ensure smooth public transport of passengers. In order for public transport of passengers to be organised in a way that meets the needs of the public, the competent authorities must have the option of free choice of rail transport. In order to guarantee the application of the principle of transparency as well as the equal treatment of competing railway undertakings, it is essential that the public transport obligation contract, between the competent authority and the selected railway undertaking, defines the nature of the public transport obligation, as well as the agreed compensation. All in all, I believe that these solutions should lead to an increase in interest in rail traffic, both in the country itself and in countries associated with the railway infrastructure with Serbia. I believe these changes of law will attract foreign investors who will have a positive effect on the economy and citizens in general. That is why the NS parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15459	National MP Dusan Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15460	Dear Chairman, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, dear ministers, today I will address the ruling coalition on behalf of the DS. Today, unfortunately, there is only Minister Mrkonjic and, of course, he has enough experience, not only in the area of infrastructure, but also in politics, so he is used to bearing responsibility somewhere and his coalition partners. When I mention the coalition, I mention it is in the context of your coalition partners' promises, but also the prime minister of this government, who is also the president of your party, who said you would pass new laws, better laws, much better laws. Today we actually see, Ministers, you may remember Resavia School, or the concept of Resavia School, at this point I'm talking about, that this is absolutely prescribed law and you know it very well. Why hasn't this law been in the process before? There's a lot of reasons. One of these reasons is that the situation in our railway does not require one step forward. This law is definitely a step forward, but unfortunately only one, and we need at least three, four steps each year to raise capacity and in general the state of our railway. Today we are aware that Serbia's railways have about 18.5 thousand workers, that they have about 1800 kilometers of rail, of which only 3% of the kilometers can be used at a speed greater than 100 kilometers per hour. We know what the problem is with electricity. Here, I am from Kragujevac and I know how much trouble my colleague Mitrovic has from the URS, and he also mentioned the transit to Bar and the exports of Fiat. What kind of problems this train has going to Bar is that all those who do the expedition in Fiat know best. What we want to point out today is that this law is something that reminds a lot of one period, which you ministers remember perfectly, which is the period when we entered the free flight story. Of course, it doesn't have much to do with the railroad, but it has to do with traffic. That's when everyone started by saying that JAT won't be able to withstand the pressure of the competition, he won't be able to adjust in time. When the law was passed, many in JAT, but also those responsible, above all in your ministry, were very happy when they met in the text with a part called the clause, which primarily implies a delayed adaptation to that free flight law. Everyone was very happy, there's no competition yet, JAT's not going down that fast. Unfortunately, that time was not used to adjust JAT, but was used to enjoy the privileges of the monopoly that JAT was doing at the time. Today we have some quasi contracts with, in this case, the Emirates. We're all safe, and you ministers know very well that JAT's value of contracted destinations is far less than what the debts are, far less than the burden it carries with too many employees, but also the habits that this company has. That is why we are talking today in favour of this law being one step ahead, but again I am talking about that the ruling coalition is a month in the middle of a regular session not having laws to propose, but rather making such proposals and laws that we are going to discuss these days, and it does not agree to put some very important laws on the agenda that the Assembly, most of the votes of the MPs, and above all the ruling majority, did not want to put in place, and the DS presented them as very important laws. The reason for the urgency of this law and the reason why we are even entering this procedure is that since June 1st, we couldn't get into communication on railways, wagon transitions, locomotives and whole compositions with Europe. This is not the EU's issue. This is a matter of European standards independent of the EU. This is a thing for us to survive on this market. The fact is, we're passing the laws again in tea. The fact is, we make laws because we have to do it. We didn't take the opportunity to fix the 2005 Law, which was not, we agree, sufficiently accurate. Many areas are not well-organized enough. Today we're just continuing that tradition. Many things, of course, are defined, but unfortunately, many of the opportunities have been missed that we could through this law fix. What everyone said today, but very shyly, is that the Law on the Safety of Railway Traffic, which exists, is something that is completely inapplicable. The law you promised to pass in the next month is a law of perability, which is something that had to go along with this law. You know that, Minister. The fact that disorganization, intricacies, but also the obvious tightenings and delays of the government, in this regard, are something we're going to consider. You say in a month. We'll see. Your colleague Selakovic promised until March 10th this, by March 10th, what, this law, that law. You promised a lot as a government. Today we see that we have a problem in the legislation again, and this home obviously has to wait for the government to propose these legal solutions. The basic question about this law is – how are we going to apply it? The easiest thing to do is to pass the law, and then not to apply it. Today you have that the Serbian Railways do not have a security certificate, they do not even have a license. It's like someone's running a vehicle that's not registered, and he doesn't even have a driver's license. Such is the situation we currently have, and in such a situation were those unfortunate people in the tunnel some days ago, driving the trains of the Serbian Railways. Director Simonovic didn't even want to see them. No one from the ministry, no one in charge showed up at the scene. It's a practice that exists everywhere in the world. When you're already in charge of a particular resort, then you must be fully prepared to go out to the citizens and tell them. Of course, most of these 22 citizens have the right, but all other passengers, who have found themselves in a very stressful situation. It's not just a physical injury, it's a very stressful situation. We saw how many kids there were. In a composition that does not have, like all other trains in the Serbian Railways, a security certificate, or a license, that is something that Serbian citizens drive. It's a state of railways. A large number of stripes, of these 1,800 kilometers, actually doesn't exist. We are talking about infrastructure management here today and we are talking about that all of this will be run by one society, it is known that it will be the railway Serbia, that it will most likely be holding, so are both Bulgarians and Croats and many others have defined themselves first for holding, and later perhaps for tearing up more companies. We know that someone should manage that holding company. We know that Dragoljub Simonovic, we'll all agree in this room, only someone can say it no, is not able to lead it and most likely will not lead it. It will be an opportunity for a man who finished the Faculty of Union "Nikola Tesla" for an entrepreneur in 2008, even though he is a man, I remember in 1959, meaning to say under the old days. He's the man who took over to run the Serbia Railway, who has 18,500 employees and we all know that we'll take advantage of it, that you'll take advantage of the opportunity to change this law, to establish a new society and replace the man who's going to run that big holding tomorrow when you start. It's the only thing that might be the real reason for this law being passed right now, since you're aware of the kind of man you've given to run the railroad, and it's not good to bow down and say that the opposition was right, but to use a legal solution like this. What's a bigger problem than who's just going to be the CEO is the fate of a large number of employees. This may be an opportunity for when a holding company is established, by transferring property not all employees, but by leaving them in a company that has a great tradition, an old firm, it's nice, it's nice -- stay in the railways, but the railways that will inevitably go bankrupt or bankruptcy, we'll see which model they'll be chosen and those people will of course be out of a job. Whether they will be similar or on what basis will be chosen by those who will move into holding, it is something that raises great doubt and something that should be under great care. This law, as a law, hides a large number of problems that can be expressed in change itself. What's still to be said is that, in addition to the certificates we talked about, safety, even though a large number of miles under the grass today, people can't even come near to cut the grass, to put away ambrosia because the state still wants to manage, in one way, the complete infrastructure that, in our opinion, is not the happiest solution. There's gonna be a lot of problems. Of course, we also see by the amendments submitted by LSV MPs. In fact, it is said that there is no procedure in Serbia. Minister, you know what the deal with the Fiat is about the railroad. I'm going to touch on a subject related to the Kragujevac himself, as well as the regional pathway. Your colleague Verica Kalanovic is very well-acquainted, but I know that you are also familiar with the regional route Kragujevac – Batocina, which is without all the permits. Of course, if, God forbid, any car accident happens, everyone has the right to sue the state, because he was driving a path that doesn't exist, which has no license, which is not allowed to be used. It's something that's dangerous. Minister, we invite you to do one important thing for Kragujevac, for "Fiat", but also for all citizens of Serbia, to drive that road, whether they go to Novi Pazar, Kraljevo, Cačak. You know how important that trip is. We invite you to, because of the importance of a contract with the Fiat for the whole country, to solve the problem of the railway, even if some of the great estrogen stars come to the opening. We are prepared, as Kragujevci, to allocate funds to get something that is very important for both Serbia and Kragujevac. As for other things that this law mentions, it's something that talks about competition, it's about something that's progressing. We're talking about competition in the area of passenger traffic, but also freight traffic. I almost had the opportunity to see that certain railway people boasted that in profit, or traffic, there was no profit, increased participation in passenger traffic. Unfortunately, business activity has fallen well with 90%, which has been freight traffic, which is everywhere in Europe and our neighbours normally, that freight traffic carries most of the rail traffic, today we have 82% freight traffic and 18% passenger traffic. It's something that says that tomorrow we can have competition in freight traffic, but in passenger traffic it'll go a lot harder. You were saying that it would be public transport contracts, that only those shares and the departures they make would receive certain subsidies, as we do with urban traffic in all major cities, so rail traffic would be able to work. What it's gonna look like, nobody knows. We are left to see how this law will be applied to this matter. There's a big dilemma about what's going to happen to passenger traffic and what's their competitiveness right now, the very traffic traffic itself. For the freighters, I say again, there's nothing to worry about. Of course, this law also deals with this topic of freight and passenger life, but that is not the problem of the Serbian railway. The fact that we've introduced competition into passenger and freighters doesn't solve the problem. We all know that the problem isn't really cars and locomotives. They are expensive, locomotives go up to four million euros and over, but the real problems are in infrastructure. Serbia has a railway problem that we will be looking for in a few years for a metal detector. They just can't find where they've been anymore. Only the oldest remembers where the tracks are and that's something that's actually a problem. This law actually avoids the possibility of a long-term solution, maintaining infrastructure and taking responsibility for those who are interested in it. This leaves the possibility that, in case an autonomous province or a local self-government is interested in a particular stock, that it builds a society that will run infrastructure maintenance, but it's very touchy and we'll see how it works. It will certainly be applied in certain cases, but it won't take away. That entrepreneur won't get in, and you know it well. What's the feature of the railroad is that 18 billion dinars are actually thrown into the well every year. For what? Because most, almost 100% of the subsidies, i.e. the transfer funds to the railways, are going to pay. It's not a well because employees receive salaries, but it's something that looks like what we had in many factories, which is buying social peace. As long as it can last, that's a big question. Will the Serbia Railroad or tomorrow that holding company be ready to get money for what he's doing and have some responsibility for that money he's getting from the state, that's a big question? Are you and this government able to ensure the application of this law, that's the biggest question. We're talking about the law being modest, it's just one step, not three, as long as we need it. We're talking about that and that one step is a big question, is with this kind of system of values declared by this government you're able to apply it and that one system of values, which is in the rail, we get money, and we don't have any responsibility, have we realised that transport, have we realized a particular service, simply has to be changed. This law makes it self-initiative. For the next year, there will be a full hunt in the blurry. It'll be a year of adjustment. What it'll look like, we'll see. But it may be one period to give to the railways, it is an important resource of the Serbian state and it is important to make better use of those years, to see the real costs. We don't know how much a train costs us today, how much one of his routes cost us. If we wanted to see how much electricity it spends, how much it spends in the number of employees, their incomes, other belongings, that's something that's total confusion. It'll take us that year, hopefully no more, to see what the situation in the railways looks like. I don't share the optimism of my fellow MPs. I remind you that this law has been extorted so that by the first of June, if we hadn't adopted it, it would have been a big problem. I remind you that the law has not been passed along with the accompanying Security Act, and that speaks of how confused this government has been, how many authorities have found them and how unprepared they are to take serious matters upon their shoulders. What you, Minister, say - came to the government. A lot of laws came to the government, so they stayed there too long. If this law doesn't come into force by September 1st, I'm talking about the Safety Act, we're gonna have a new problem in the railroad. 35 If we only adopt laws to put out fires, then there is no talking about any development, no saving, only the spilling from the hollow to the empty. We are now witnessing that the state is establishing a new holding company that will have several companies. In the perspective, it will separate or not, depending on which practice we choose in the future. We have a risk in the number of employees who will move into a new holding company. We have a risk of implementing all these legal provisions. Is the Ministry of Finance, but is your ministry ready to take a serious job as soon as possible along with the directorate, we said a year at the most? These are all serious problems. There are serious problems, and I say once again, that we have managed to get into a situation so we don't take this chance and pass the right law, not just a minimum of the minimum that Brussels will approve. This is where the EU's trust was tested, as they also give an opinion on this law and you yourself said it had support. We have tested what is the minimum that they will accept, because we are not ready and we are not honest with the changes that are necessary in the railways. That is, to put it that way, the real reason why this law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15461	Mr. Mitrovica, were you looking for a replica or as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15462	I consider it necessary to give some information to an esteemed colleague who mentioned Minister Kalanovic and a highway from Kragujevac to Corridor 10. Of course, I did not stand up to defend Mrs Kalanovic, because she has done so much for both Kragujevac and all of Serbia, that there is simply no need to defend her, especially from the Kragujevac people. I find it extremely inadmissible that someone from Kragujevac is attacking that a highway is being built for Kragujevac, that they attack something that brought Fiat to Kragujevac and hired thousands of Kragujevacs. Was there a problem with the planning file? Well, and if there were, I ask an esteemed colleague why during their ministry, Maria Raseta Vukosavljevic, is not that planning documentation done properly? Mrs. Vukosavljevic then dealt with some other problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15463	The replica was answered by Mr. Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15464	Here's what I can tell you as a Kragujevčan. I really don't want to talk about the merits of the Honorable Minister, but the Kragujevci know best what their staffing and work looks like, first of all, your party, but let's not get into that debate. This is about reminding me of New Serbia's MP. It looks like Velya's saying - I let you steal a little bit, but, people, you steal. There's another variant here, you just applied one form in which we're talking about there's no license, there's no paper, there's no people traveling along the way, and there's already been a lot of car accidents. I don't want to burden anyone individually that he's responsible for a number of people who have suffered injuries, but unfortunately with a fatal outcome on this section of the road. I don't want to open up a story about the merits, excellent Kragujevci knows what kind of Kalanović has the merits in Kragujevac and what manner of communication with the institutions that need to implement something from its portfolio, but here we are also talking about that something that is done without any permission is precedent, something that you want to introduce into practice. Never mind, it's important there's a way. Do you realize what you're talking about? I'm Kragujevchan and I travel that way every day. Maybe you don't care. You may not care if this road meets the basic criteria, but a large number of Serbian citizens, not only Kragujevcans, do not make this a Kragujevac story, this is a road of national importance and it is called the official regional road, but a large number of Serbian citizens travel it, and it absolutely does not exist on the map. He's not recognised by the basic institutions and the minister can say something about it. We have absolutely a big problem because of the great expertise of the said Minister Kalanovic, who does so according to his opinion, which hides various signatures of various invalid documents. On what basis did she sign certain documents? Because he knows there's got to be enough paperwork for every major project like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15465	The word has a minister, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15466	I didn't want to comment, but I agree with my colleague Mitrovica. That's not the subject, it's the Law on Railways, not the Roads. You'll get a chance to talk. You're wrong, it's not fair that Mrs. Kalanovic, who is one correct woman who does her job professionally, is now getting into the story of the law. That's why we're talking about the law. We're not talking about roads. It's not the only facility that doesn't have a license and you all know it, so I'm not spreading the subject any further now. So, since I've already taken the floor, I want to thank Mirko Chikiriz, not for the political part, but for that professional part. Before that, Mrs Filipovska gave her correct support to the law, which I expected because a lot of your objections had been adopted. Why optimism, Dushan? Optimism because we're starting from some zero. What do we do, we start from scratch. Now that I said one thing here, everyone would be amazed. Zoran Djindjic wanted all these projects to work in 2003. Then, by 2008, I repeat again, no one knew what corridors were in Serbia. No one, not even among the experts, perhaps just Mitrovica. We started in 2008, so we did something, so it goes back to 2009, so we move on. Unfortunately, in Serbia, large infrastructure facilities work from government to government. It's time for your generation, Dushan, to end it. Give some continuity, let's say - this project has to be done for 10 years, let's do it for 10 years. Unfortunately, you're right, political activity isn't such that we could say it today. So, optimism is because this law at least creates preconditions that we can, as you yourself have commended and said a few things, define what this railway directorate is and what its obligations are. You say, "How are we going to look at costs now?" By being the five-year national infrastructure programme adopted here among you in the Assembly, which will control, as well as the budget, some commission from here. That's the thing about infrastructure, there's the biggest cost. Quality is that other companies, other individuals, privates will be able to transport. I repeat, there are people in Serbia today who have means of driving and tow, and they can't come up with a competition in the Railways. These are some things that will be made possible by this new law. Of course, as much as you trust me and this government, we'll make it. If you do not believe, we will see, you will change me, you will bring a better minister who will carry it out. It's already a sign that there must be some optimism. That's why I repeat again, there was no Resav school. It was in my day, Dushan. The laws are, of course, prescribed. Why is it bad if something is good from some law or from European countries? Please, I also said that in the afternoon discussion about the separation of infrastructure from traffic has been said in Europe for 30 years and it is being implemented. It's working somewhere, and somewhere it doesn't work. We just did it in 2013. Let's try and see what happens next. Of course, the inevitable theme of leadership. The management will be chosen by those in charge. Someone said in the afternoon that the Law on Public Enterprises had entered into force. Under the law, all directors will be elected, as the law says. That's how it's gonna be, at least in the vault I run. There shouldn't be skepticism. I'm not a man of great optimism at the age I'm at. What I've been through, in that part I'm not much of an optimist, but I'm optimistic in that part that we have to go and take the first step towards getting our railroad out of the ashes it's in today. Unfortunately, that's the result of 50 years of work. Well said by someone - we all like to ride cars and planes, and nobody likes railways. Unfortunately, that's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15467	Replica was reported by MP Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15468	I absolutely support the minister that we should return to the topic, but before I do, I must say that we from the URS are proud of everything we did in Kragujevac and we wish to do in other Serbian cities as in Kragujevac. I, as a Uzican, would be delighted to have a part of what was done for Kragujevac also done in my Uzica and I hope it will be done. What the citizens of Kragujevac think of Verica Kalanovic and the URS said in the last elections. Forty per cent of the Kragujecans who went to the polls support the policy. What they think of DS policy, they also said in the election. I think it's inadmissible to say that someone signed some papers there. That's highly inadmissible. Imagine if I told you right now that someone from the DS in Agrobanka or at Vojvodina Development Bank signed some documents. That would be extremely inadmissible until proven, and it would prove itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15469	Replica, Dusan Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15470	Mr. Mitrovica, I have no intention, you have a concentration problem, don't follow the subject, you put Kalanovicka in this story yourself. It's definitely not Kalanovic's theme, the subject is respect for the rules. We want this country to respect procedures, that this country functions normally. We're absolutely sure the U.S.S. isn't capable of doing that. As for Minister Mrkonjic, I have two applications, very brief. Please don't ever mention Zoran Djindjic, it's really an honest request. The second is, since I, at least, don't remember you, there's a possibility that we know each other from a period when I don't remember, that you don't call me a personal name, because otherwise it's not allowed by the Rules of Procedure. I've got my last name, and first of all, we're talking to each other in function. What's the fact, is that, I only have one question for you – what does it feel like to be the minister responsible for JAT? Long years? We see what you've done to him. Now you're both responsible for the railways and you've been before and we see what condition they're in. What does it feel like to say – there are a number of paths that do not have permits, but are not built recently, there are roads in Serbia that have problems with licenses or are from another period. If we're already on the subject of railways, maybe we can even say that many of them are from the Blue Train period, which today, I'm quite surprised, you didn't mention. But anyway, the fact is that what you're responsible for is not going from zero, it's going from negative. But much of what didn't go away from the minus earlier is your responsibility. Actually, that's what we're talking about. You said today in the railways we're going from zero. Of which, black, zero? Look at the state of the railways and think again about whether we're going from scratch? And JAT, who may have been at zero, even in plus, has, by a series of wrong procedures, come into a situation today that is absolutely not competitive, and there is absolutely no future. It's something you, Minister, are responsible for. That's the real question.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15471	The word is Mr. Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15472	I'm sorry, I wrote Dushan down, and I don't know your last name because I don't know you, first time I've seen you, and now I know your last name. About what I'm gonna say, you're not gonna give me a lecture, I'm gonna say what I want to say. Shame on you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15473	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15474	Mr. Chairman, I ask you to maintain the dignity of the National Assembly. Everyone here will speak only of what the Rules of Procedure has given him and everyone will act in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, whether it be the People's MP, the Minister, the President of the Assembly, or the President of the Republic. I think in this high house we should preserve the dignity of this home and represent the citizens and their electoral will in the way they express it. We didn't come here to take calls. We didn't come here to take offense. We came here to face arguments and facts. We are the people's MPs, and we were chosen by the citizens. We're the ones who control the government. It has never happened in this House that the government is trying to control the MPs and silence them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15475	I certainly appeal to all the participants in the debate and I think that the debate so far has been going well enough and it has been very well discussed on the agenda subject, so please continue in that direction. Of course, we'll come to the voter's vote. Just tell me which member is injured by the Rules of Procedure? (Srdjan Milivojevic: Article 107) Rules of Procedure. ) All right, Article 107. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15476	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, the representatives of the ministry, that's how it is for you, after the divorce, there is a period that is unpleasant for members who were married. Posttraumatic condition. I have the honour of being authorized in front of the DSS for this first act. Otherwise, within this first point are three draft laws. Two draft laws in the area of water traffic. One on internal navigation, one law is a practical agreement between Serbia and Cyprus on maritime and this third, i.e. to say the most important law, as you have seen today, most of all colleagues have talked about the Law on Railways and because it is an important system law because it is an efficient and well-organised rail transport of the great development resource of every country, including Serbia. The previous government, in which the minister in charge of traffic was also Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, sent the bill to the Assembly in 2011. At that time, most of the law was not provided to be passed in the congregation. Those are, I would say, above all, some problems within the then majority, or ruling coalition. But it was one of the few legal proposals that wasn't adopted in the previous session. The MPs and the DSS hoped that you, the minister of the ministry, would take advantage of the opportunity to make more changes to that law that was bad back then. You yourself said that somewhere around 5% of the law of that time was changed. So it's practically the same law that is bad. In fact, to be more specific, this would actually be a very good law if it were to apply to the French railways and to our railways and to have TTV and that we were the French Parliament. But this is not a situation, we live in Serbia and this applies to Serbian railways. I can also commend all of you who have participated in the construction of these EU directives that you have done so well that when a man reads this law, he simply believes that Serbia has been in the EU for about ten years. When a law is done, when it's done, then you always have to start with two things. The first thing is what kind of situation you're in right now. Secondly, what you want to improve and how you want to do it. Earlier, the minister said that when it comes to rail and rail traffic in Serbia, I quote it, he said we are zero and we have to extract the system from the ashes. So, you may have given the best description of what the rail system is in today. It's a little awkward when you talk after all the authorized promoters because then you risk repeating things, I apologize to my colleagues and viewers if anyone follows this transmission. So, what's the state of the railway infrastructure? You said yourself, and the information is known, say, that there are some 200km of railways in Serbia where trains cannot move faster than 20 to 30km. Then, there were a lot of words about how we operate the company that is in charge and deals with the organisation of rail traffic, it is now a.d. society and what is the situation. Such that every year, huge funds are allocated out of the budget, we call them subsidies, I guess that's kind of easier. These subsidies were mainly used to pay salaries, so very few funds went and invested in infrastructure. The volume of transport of goods and passengers is very small, and compared to some other countries, for example, it is somehow forced to compare with Slovakia because it is about the same size country, it has about the same population as Serbia, that it is about 10% smaller than it is in other countries. So, the whole system is bad because it hasn't invested in years, and for years that system's been operating with losses. In the past, and we see that it is happening now, there have been several different acts of restructuring of the "Serb Railway", but the best solution has not yet been found. Why did I bring all this up? Because you, in your explanation, and that's what you said at the outset about this law, said you wanted to integrate the rail system into the transport services market and that the integration of Serbian railways into the EU rail system is successfully taking place. The aim is therefore to create conditions for competition, i.e. the elimination of monopolies and the emergence of several railway infrastructure managers and several railway undertakings, both goods and passengers, so you are convinced that the appearance of competition will lead to improvement of all services. So, "Serbian Railways" will no longer have a monopoly in organising traffic on their tracks. The law enables the opening of the market and the existence of competition, and that is essentially good, but Serbian railways are not at this moment ready for such a type and so much liberalisation of services and the arrival of foreign companies, and there are several and domestic companies, which have managed to buy a locomotive, employ people who have worked on the railways, but are retired and thus become very competitive. What do the railroads say? For years nothing has been invested, and now such an old and slow railway should compete for jobs and services on the market. That's why we think this is a concrete solution. So, in this law there are some very good solutions that have had to be made already, but this one, I say, this liberalisation of the market will be likely to be fatal to "the railways of Serbia", or that part of them, which is called part of society, which is Kargo Serbia, the question is how competitive they will be. You have experience from other countries in Europe that already have highly developed railway systems, so they waited to settle their situation in their home, and then they just went to market. Then the question arises – why this haste and why do we need such an ultra-European law when it comes to this? So, I repeat, there are some good solutions, but when it comes to this, we put a big problem here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15477	MP Zoran Angelkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15478	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the Socialist Party Group of Serbia supports and welcomes the efforts made by you and your associates to reach this law and at this stage when we are counting on the debate that was here today, clearly to be adopted. Of course, it would have been good if two years ago this law had been passed, when it was in the procedure, we know why it wasn't adopted, but I think it would have been good and it would have accelerated quite certainly further reforms on the railways. But, as they would say, it is now extremely important to move into the application of this law, and in any case, the law itself creates more opportunities that are extremely important for the state of Serbia, not only for the "Serb Railway" and for the citizens of Serbia. One of these improvements is the efficiency of "The Railway of Serbia", and of course when it comes to public enterprises and when it comes to action societies owned by the state, there is a constant debate on efficiency, but in order to discuss whether or not one company is efficient, or not effective, market conditions must be created. More specifically, conditions of competitiveness must be created, that we have in the area and other businesses, in order to make comparisons. This law just creates it. It creates conditions for the creation of new railway companies, new railways that will take over goods, take over passengers, and in this way we can immediately discuss whether the railway is more efficient, when I say railways, I mean this action society - the state railway, whether it is effective, not effective, whether it needs more funds or not, so that we can develop a better way of railing in general, when I tell the railway Serbia. Of course, the law creates and opens, or creates assumptions for compliance with all European directives, which Minister Mrkonjic also spoke of earlier. Various reforms in Europe's railways last 30 years. Nowhere is a great situation with the railways, it's just a question of how much the economic power of a country is and how much and how well the situation in the railways is. In the end, the most common thing is to create a parallel between one country's economic strength and the economic strength of the railways in the territory. I've heard all kinds of opinions here about how much to invest in the railroad, and nothing's done, etc. I think it's more of a ignorance of the data, as it is elsewhere, let's take it in the neighborhood, for the last 15 years in the Croatian railways, the country invests 650m euros, and they have 1,000km less railways than Serbia, Austrian railways invest four billion a year. A billion, mandatory public transport, now introduced by this law, over two billion and 400 in new railways, 600 million in reconstruction of existing railways. It is precisely because this law effectively creates the obligation to complete the reform on the "Serb Railways" and that the infrastructure of the "Serb Railways" is being separated, I think it is extremely important for both the railways, both for the citizens and the government of Serbia. When it comes to citizens, taxpayers, it's important that they see what money is given for and where money is given. Because when we say it's given so much for the railroad, no one knows how much it's actually given for the railways, for the reconstruction of the railroad, and how much it's given for the mandatory public transport and for the maintenance of public transport. When we say 100 million, 100 million is a great deal of money when it is brought here into the budget of the Republic of Serbia to be given to "the Railways of Serbia" in a year. But 100 million, 100 million is 30 kilometers, 20 miles of railroad to build. Therefore, if that 100 million were to be invested in infrastructure alone, then there would not be left to operate the railways. You know, it's always a lot. This is clear, when the infrastructure is separated as a special holding company, it will clearly see as much as the state can invest money in the development of railway infrastructure, it will be for infrastructure. Citizens will see that it repairs or makes railways and speeds up traffic, but as much as the state can single out for one mandatory public transport, then it will control whether we have a good transport or not. Now that the railways are criticised for going slowly, it's said, the trains are nothing. It's not a question of trains. It's a slow track, not a train. The train and the existing can go 120 kilometers per hour, but it's a railroad thing. I heard a gentleman talking about it earlier, it's not the law, I apologize to Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, since he mentioned Dinkic, Djindjic, so I didn't understand Duška why he was objecting. I found Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, with Mr. Dinkic, Djindjic on December 27th 2012, if I'm not mistaken, there was Mr. Lale Sekulić, in fact, in 2002, so yes, then we talked about forming a joint government, and you were talking about the stripes, so that I would testify more that it was true, that it wasn't, and he's young so he doesn't know, he never talked to a man...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15479	Please, let's get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15480	I'm sorry, but I had to defend the minister from something that's true. So, just to tell the truth, it doesn't matter if I defend myself. Why I think it's important, on the other hand, that the taxpayers understand, because you know what, when we talk about the performance of a railway, and whether it's effective or not, we often view it as a collection until it separates under this law. When we say "Lasta" is as successful as a company, "Lasta" is not made by highways, it comes out on a toll ramp, pays tolls, I mean their bus and drives. This is where the conditions are created for this law to happen, that even the state passenger traffic on the railway when accessing the railway pay by mile as far as it goes along that railway line, but also some future private operators in passenger or freight traffic under the same conditions will pay for access to the infrastructure, which would tell me the toll, or maybe some two or three municipalities will build a joint railway company or Vojvodina will do, is not that a problem either. Let the AP build a railway company and get a path from the infrastructure, drive there under the same conditions, so let's see if it's successful or not successful, then you'll know what one is, what else is, what is the efficiency of the infrastructure. Otherwise, I have to say that the Serbian government and Minister Mrkonjic, along with the railway past management, and this now, we have in fact prepared what the Serbian government is supposed to propose, and stems from this programme, presents the National Programme for the Development of Infrastructure on the Railways of Serbia, more specifically said development over the next five years. We have, very clearly, there is, as we have discussed here many times, several of these important projects, and some are already in progress. There are loans from the EBRD of Russian railways, but let me just point out those projects that are now practically under way. It is a bridge in Novi Sad, Željev Bridge, which is 45m euros in value, then, which is to be completed next year on Moravi, which is eight, ninem euros, which is actually threatening to complete the 10.5km Gilje-Cuprija track and electrification of the two-wheel track, 25m euros and the project ends in 2014. Material was purchased for six shares in Corridor 10 in the length of 112km, 30m euros from the EBRD, and will be worked from a Russian loan, meaning reconstruction on Corridor 10, 112km of railway. There is a Belgrade railway node that we adopted here, verifies a 25m-euro loan for the fourth, fifth and sixth track. There is a Russian loan of 800m euros, more specifically 920m dollars, not the euro, because 15% is the state's participation and it is clear what is being built out of it. There was a question here, how many trains? A hundred million dollars of trains, about 25, 26, 27, will be in negotiations, it is a matter of negotiators, a diesel of motor trains, with 21 electric trains that the "Serb Railway" has signed in fact, and the following year since September each month come for two trains. We will in the next five years and with these investments come into a position that when we have separate infrastructure on the one hand, and on the other hand clear and precise rules for goods transport and passenger transport, we will end up reforming on the one hand, and create conditions that we have one serious and good railway. You know, when we say - people won't drive on trains; I have to tell you that's not true. Before that, let's say what is the condition, because when it comes to repairs, we have a yearly need to reconstruct 191 kilometers of rail. We averaged 11 kilometers, and it's not now this year, it was 2000, 2001, 2002, 2005, 2007 i2008. A year. So, every year 180 kilometers we've done less construction of the railroad than we should have done, or to be more precise and fairer, that's from 1990 to today. It's been a little more than 1990 since 2000, a little bit 17 kilometers a year, but you throw out, it's an average of 11 kilometers more than after 2000, we've done more reconstruction. When it comes to passenger transport, that the people do not want to drive by train, I must tell you, 45 million passengers were transported in 1989 in one year by the railways of Serbia. In 2010, it is 7.5 million, but if this segment clearly emerges from this law, which is why it is necessary for the budget of the following year to provide for the means of mandatory public transport and when it comes to the republic and when it comes to the city, the province and the municipalities, I am absolutely certain that what we received last year, which is 16.5 million transported passengers compared to 2010 when it was 7.5, where is the difference? The difference is "BG train". A contract with Belgrade was signed on a Pančeva Bridge-Batajnica route, so we transported 12 million passengers to the Batajnica-Pančeva Bridge in Belgrade last year. Imagine that we have another fifteen trains that are supposed to be interested together and buy, that we have a link between Rakovica-Pančeva Bridge, Rakovica-Batajnica, I am absolutely sure that we could take 30-40 million passengers to Belgrade by next year. It's not a question of the use of railways, it's just, it's a question of what was said here, environmentals, it's a question of roads, city streets, it's a question of spinning, it's a question of hundreds of other advantages if something like that happened. Therefore, I believe that if this plan and programme should be adopted when it comes to infrastructure here in parliament, that we can count on the next period that Minister Mrkonjic was talking about in 2012, 2017, 2017, "The Railways of Serbia", but I am talking about passenger traffic, the transport of more than 50 million passengers, and I am not telling you this unreal. They're not unreal figures. Let me compare it again. The Croatian railway carried 72 million passengers, of which 60 million when it comes to Zagreb and the environment, means, when it comes to some kind of wider city railway, not just Zagreb itself. When it comes to reforms themselves, this law provides for the conclusion of reforms on the railways. One phase has been the transition from a public company to a stock company, and the second stage is that the actual assembly of the AD Railways of Serbia has adopted the programme, and there may now be some changes, and that is what the minister has been talking about. Four companies are scheduled, one is the infrastructure, which the law provides here, the second is passenger traffic, the third is freight and the fourth is rail property management. That would mean that if we did the job when it came to the next budget with a public transport obligation, that we actually have for the next year the financing of the railway not by some mass of money, but by the work done. If we get some private or other railway administrations, we can clearly compare the efficiency of one or the other under the same conditions. After all, it's important for taxpayers to be able to tie up. For the state, I guess it's important that with the same means it can transport more people, and whether it will transport, in the end, to be honest, AD "The Railways of Serbia" passenger transport, or AD "The Railways of Serbia" goods transport or some other railway administration, I think that if we are talking about competitiveness, if we are talking about the market economy is not the most important. It's important to come from 16 million passengers to 50 million. It's important that we arrive at about 80-100 average kilometers on the track from the average mile for passenger traffic. It's important that at 25 kilometers of average freight speed, we get to 60-70, that this train from Subotica to Dimitrovgrad can arrive in about 10-12 hours, and sometimes we drive in 10 hours from Sudotica to Dimitrovgrad, so that traffic doesn't go to Corridor 4. It's not going to Corridor 4. The freight traffic because someone loves us or doesn't love us, but because the minister talked about it, about the problem of the border, keeping it at the borders long, because the average is 25, so it's easier for him to get there, there's only one border between Bulgaria and Turkey, and here it's stuck at several border crossings, and then the train knows it's standing 12 hours at the border because of one, another, third, fifth inspection. Therefore, I deeply believe it is not false optimism, I deeply believe that this strategy of the government and the ministry can ensure that, in the next fifth annual rail plan, at least above the average railway in this region, or someone on the railways thinks that they will compete with Austrian railways that carry 200 million passengers, but four billion per year, nor with German railways that plan to spend 36 billion euros on new railways and 16 for reconstruction of existing railways, but in this area of Southeast Europe, I think that "Serbian Railways" can provide, to be a leader in the extreme case. If we were important not only for us, the quality and success of "Serb Railways", but also for Croatia and Slovenia, and that was the word here, the pawnage that was on which Minister Mrkonjic was also on, not only insisted, but worked on it, together with ministers from Slovenia and Croatia, to form a joint venture, Corridor 10, in order to return part of the goods that went to Corridor 10 from 1989 to 1990 through Serbia through Slovenia and Croatia to that corridor. If we were to return 30-40% of the goods that used to go on this corridor, we would certainly have twice as much income in cargo traffic as we have today. I think cargo traffic, i.e. freight traffic, goods traffic and today 50% of the total goods produced in Serbia produce it. That's how it's always been -- as much as the gross national income and the production of kabaste goods in Serbia is increasing, I'm quite sure with this element that's also here, with the government's incentive when it comes to combined transport, it's organized, the railway will drive 50% of the goods produced in Serbia in the future. We have to make more to have something to drive. When it comes to the role of the Railways Directorate, you know, it's very important, and it's one important element of this law, that the Railways Directorate gets that right function of a regulatory body. There has been an exact push for more of these EU agencies. The ministry agreed, in agreement with the people of the EU, that this could be done by one directorate, not by making two, three directorates, and for traffic security, and for one, and for the other, and for the third. By creating these conditions, that the agency be not some spare body of the Serbian Railways, but an independent regulatory body for granting licences, for granting consent, for other operators, I deeply believe that we can also build a market on the railways and build a market railway to the extent that it does not mean that there is no income from the state when it comes to mandatory public transport in infrastructure, but rather about equality with other economic operators, with some private operator in passenger traffic, who will also have mandatory public transport as well as public railways, but that in this I think railways are trained. We can listen to all kinds of stories about it here - he's got a license, he's got no license. Don't scare people. At the very least, let's take a look at that May 1st. Let's take a look at the last year. Let's take a look at the last five years. How many people had any accidents on the railways, and how many on the highway, on roads across Serbia? Serbia's railways, if they have one of the most important and important elements, is the fight and engagement for traffic security. That's what I think they achieve significant results. A personal mistake or a engineer's mistake can always happen. That's what you'd say, a personal mistake that's possible. The railroad is still the safest means of transport and it will remain. If that were the case, without a license, without permission, where would we end? The railroad is still an organized system. The Socialist Party of Serbia absolutely supports the law. I deeply believe that the ministry, along with the Serbian Railways Assembly, will end reforms by the next two or three months, by September of the month, more precisely, bring to an end what we have agreed so far with the formation of dependent companies and holding companies and that the new budget law will provide the position of mandatory public transport, not more donations, to adopt a national infrastructure plan. Once again, I say he's very clear. I deeply believe that in the next five years we can talk in a completely different way, even more affirmative, even though today we can speak affirmatively about the railway. I want you to have this law unanimously passed in Parliament. Thank you. PRESIDENT (Vesna Kovac) : Thank you. The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15481	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after my colleague Mr. Angelkovic, who spoke a lot of affirmatively about the state of the railways, about good plans and good projects, I would still stick to it before I look back on the good and bad sides of the proposed law, on the condition that is today on the Serbian Railways. You know that transport agencies were formed in 2003. In 2005, the U.S. Serbia's railways had six daughters of businesses. There was a change in the founding act and founding rights transferred to the government of the Republic of Serbia. There has been privatisation of some of the company's daughters, and the daughters of companies are places where illegal profits are obtained through multiple-inflated invoices. In 2006 Serbia's railways are getting a new form of organisation, similar to what is proposed today by this law, i.e. there were two directives -- the Infrastructure Directorate and the Transport Directorate. In 2011 Serbia's railways become Serbia's railways with four companies. The infrastructure company receives an additional level of organisation, which is a node section, which increases the administrative-burocratic position of the railways. Nothing is being invested in Željnica and, according to an estimate of rail revitalisation services in 2010, it was necessary for the state to allocate six billion euros to bring capacities and railways to an average speed of 80km. The question arises how much money is needed today? The financial consolidation of the Serbian Railways has not been carried out. Serbia's railways have burdened their business with around 1.3 billion euros, out of which external debts account for around 840m euros, and debts to domestic lenders are around 190m euros. The company is also burdened with short-term commitments, as operational revenues do not cover operational costs. Since 2000, investment has been minimal in the Railways. Our tracks are down, there's no thresholds, there's no rails. Tow and towed funds have been destroyed. There have been experiments carried out in the commercial policy of the company, but always at the expense of the company. The workers were left with no basic protective means, no protective and official clothing. We used to pay for foreign car maintenance and use foreign cars, as much as energy. Light rides are introduced almost on all stripes. The workers leave the company according to various programs. We've received footage we don't need. Railway workers burned with profits below the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia. Carriers who have obtained transport licences and safety certificates still do not have access to railway infrastructure, as they have not met all the requirements prescribed by law for the use of public railway infrastructure. No statement on the network with basic principles on which the infrastructure fee regime is based has been published. The model of the contract between infrastructure managers and carriers has not been fully restructured in such a way that it is possible to realise access to the network. Unprofessional management of tariff policy in both passenger and goods traffic has drastically reduced the revenues of the Railways. Passenger transport took part in the revenues of the railway with about 10%, and could participate with a significantly higher percentage that rights and good tariff policy were conducted. The goods traffic is inextricably managed by tariff policy, by applying the regulations always at the expense of the Railways and today drives the biggest users of our services. The railway currently asks RTB Bor for more than 10 million dinars based on this kind of trickery and the question is the day when it will transfer some of its transport to the road, because it no longer pays for rail transport. It is important to know that RTB Bor drives about four thousand tonnes of railway goods annually, that he pays neatly and that he made 50km of railroad and gave the Railway to use and plans to drive over 800,000 tons of goods after the completion of the new solvent and sulphuric acid factories. Today we are trying to charge RTB Bor an international tariff in domestic transport. We're wondering why he refuses to pay for it. Serbia's rail transport market is currently worth 250m to 300m euros annually. The railway is currently incometing about 100 million, as a large part of transit goods bypasses us because of bad railways, long transit through Serbia, overloading and repairing cargo and the like. The state subsidizes the railway with about 15 billion dinars a year, and if we see that we can make about 250 to 300 million, then it's clear that the railroadmen can earn their own wages, but someone doesn't answer that. The state could pass a law under which all road transport transiting through Serbia, transport and railways, such as in many EU countries. This is also related to the adoption of a traffic strategy where all four types of traffic would be clearly developed and the transport of goods would be rerouted across the railways. The railroad would make money, the roads would be kept from heavy trucks. When foreign private operators come, all this will change, especially the current traffic organisation. As far as the traffic organization is concerned, she remained the same as she did 50 years ago. When an international train enters Saturday's Serbia, it is taken over by mechanical personnel pulling the trains of Subotica. The same train is towing to Novi Sad where it is taken by their staff to drag it to Belgrade and to Belgrade's range ramp. That's where their staff takes him and drags him to Lapov or possibly Nis. Then he's taken over by the staff. Every time the train staff changes, the train falls out of its path, and since our tracks are bad after we find it difficult to find an interval to get that train back into traffic. Every time staff changes, the locomotive that pulls that train is changed, instead of one locomotive and one or two staff driving a train through Serbia, that train passes through Serbia in 10 hours, and then goes two days. Today, renting a business space on the railway is also tariffd for all of Serbia. It is the same price as renting a business space in both Belgrade and Zajecar. The railway site contains incorrect data on the number of locomotives, freight cars and passenger cars. We've got about 70 locomotives and over 2,000 cargo cars. The site says we have 450 locomotives and over 4,000 cargo cars, which is a complete lie. Although there may be so many of them on record in the cemetery of freight cars and locomotives, but they are out of use. The railways owe over a billion dollars and each day they owe more and more. How these debts will pay back so far is not clear to anyone. It's not this much debt made in a year, but it's never been reduced, it's just increased, which is the best thing it says about not doing those who ran the railroad. Today, railways pay millions of pens for loans they didn't withdraw. What causes this condition on Serbia's railways today? Long-standing and organised corruption and robbery of the Serbian Railways, at all levels as high as possible for the robbery. The absence and non-adjustment of traffic policy to the real needs of the market where the interests and relationships of all types of traffic, the absence and the existence of these days and the existence of the Law on Railways, the centralised way of managing finance, budget and earned income with minimal responsibility, the influence of political parties through their representatives in railway management bodies, the desperate staff policy. Professionals who respect the law and the general good have been pushed aside, and similar personnel have been set up with clearly established tasks on how to benefit from their political option. Buying the silence of union representatives, representative and some smaller trade unions through catering facilities, which has also been discussed in the media these days, foreign and domestic journals with official travels. Buying silences from employers, privileges such as often foreign and domestic journals, director's allowances, catering facilities, flat division and others. With both the domestic and the entire system of the Serbian Railways, the devastating commercial and especially tariff policies resulting in the departure of users of transport to other modes of transport, thus also the loss of income and jobs. I'll tell you what the situation is in the environment. Serbia entered the railway restructuring business the last of the former SFRY states. There's no need to wander around various, different models of restructuring. The current organisation of the Serbian Railways once had Slovenia, its railways but changed it because it did not give the desired effects. Croatia's railway has three organisational works – cargo, passenger transport and infrastructure. By joining the EU, Croatia will free up its transport market and currently carry out a reduction in the number of workers in its karg from 2000 to 1000 workers. Romanian railways liberalised their transport market by joining the EU, thus destroying their goods operator. It was only in one day that he fired about 8,000 workers and is currently in bankruptcy. The transport market for Montenegro and BiH has not been opened yet. What are the good parts of this Law on Railways? The good side of the Law on Railways is that it will legalise the change in the legal status of the Serbian Railways, that unless there are few amendments, it will provide a stable source of funding. In this regard, I proposed a model of financing Serbia's Railways. I would ask the Minister, the Government and the Resolute Committee to plead on the subject of this amendment. To allow the possibility of concessions, the amendment has also been submitted, to move forward with the regulation of our transport market and its adaptation with EU directives on this area. Mr. Minister, in this law, it is proposed to reduce the protection belt from 200 to 100 meters. You know that the head of all the facilities in that protection belt is the Republic of Serbia. So far, there have been facilities rented by the government of the Republic of Serbia to rent to the tenants to use the facilities on the safety belt. The problem with both the government and the Serbian Railways is that the payment of the rent does not go even 10%, thus losing both the Republic of Serbia's budget and thus the Railways of the Republic of Serbia. To collect from the use of these facilities in the state register would also be more funds for the development of the infrastructure of the Serbian Railways. The motive of this is an overly protective belt in larger cities such as Nis, Kragujevac, Belgrade and Novi Sad, as it is certain that by giving up these 100 meters and reducing the belt from 200 to 100 meters, many economic and construction facilities will likely be in the belt. I personally think it's wrong and the amendment has been submitted in this regard. I think it should stay and be the holder of this as the Republic of Serbia and charge the rent from it, and that it backs up its railways. The second solution to be offered, which is problematic and which may be the most controversial in the proposed law, is that the decision on non-performable railways, the closure of non-erable railways, is passed on from the National Assembly to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's necessary to keep an old solution, that this home should be regularly declared on rails that are inert and planned to stop traffic. The third question a little bit of the proposed law, which I consider to be vital to the railways, is the question of concession. In my amendments, I elaborated on the problem of concessions in railways. I would also ask you to make a statement and pay attention to that possibility. I think at a time like this and in the financial situation in which the railway is located today, the concession is one of the very important solutions. We also proposed the concept of financing Serbia's Railways. We'll also discuss these amendments on the day we discuss it. It is incomprehensible, Mr. Minister, that in the framework of the fuel excise charge, Serbian Railways pay for the road, although they do not use the roads, but use the railways. I think by reducing that debt from the railway cargo, a part of the means to improve railway infrastructure can be allocated. Now, outside of this bill, I would ask you to consider your ministry and the government of the Republic of Serbia the problem of reforming the union organisation in the Serbian Railways. I don't know if you know that there are about 17 unions in the Serbian Railways? Corrected by my colleague Angelkovic, 27. Isn't it possible if we are now dividing Serbia's railways into transport and infrastructure, that we have two representative transport unions and infrastructures? I am saying this because the costs of the Serbian Railways for this union organization are huge. I've got a table here for all the expenses. I don't want to bother this house right now, but I can show you that, which is all about unions within the rails. The second question that Serbia's Railways should deal with, Mr. Minister, is also a key issue, and I think the authorities in this country, is to expose, expose some of the leaders in the Serbian Railways with private shipping companies. There is a basis for the transport that is planned from the railways through various machinations to be poured into the transport of private shipping companies and that is one of the major problems. Finally and lastly, I suggest that your ministry and government take seriously the adoption of a new strategy on traffic policy in our country, precisely for the reasons I mentioned earlier, because some analyses say that almost 80% of the transport of goods takes place by rail in almost all EU countries, and we are only 20% today. Finally, with all due respect, I ask you to seriously consider the proposed amendments on the committee responsible and you, as a ministry and government, because in some matters they significantly improve the proposal for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15482	Thank you. We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15483	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, the Honorable President-in-Office of Serbia, I must first of all refer to the fact that the NS in the previous meeting, and myself personally as a National MP, participated in creating a significant number of amendments, which we recognize have been adopted in this bill of law before us. I really thank the Minister and the Ministry for having heard of this kind of co-operation and co-operation. What is very important at this point in Serbia is that all kinds of traffic, traffic infrastructures are advanced, of course, and rail traffic. They are indivisible to each other: road traffic, air traffic, water traffic and rail traffic must be complemented. The railway is certainly of national importance, primarily because it has existed in Serbia since 1884. In the last 50 years, as it has failed, it is now time for this trend of collapse or free fall to be stopped and for us to turn to that resource as one of the significant traffic resources that will improve, above all, Serbia's economy, as it will also enable the transport of goods. What is positive in rail transport, it is a high permeability and transport capacity of goods and passengers, transport independent of climate conditions. Therefore, no other traffic resource has such frequency and such flexibility when it comes to climate conditions, climate change, as is the possibility of rail traffic. Then, direct connection of the bus and track tracks and the possibility of major co-operation with all other traffic infrastructures and mass transport. Of course, railways are such a traffic resource that requires large initial investments, but all investment in railways is certainly worth the long run. What made it clear that the NS would support this bill, of course, after discussions in particular and the adoption of a significant number of amendments, in which we have participated very creatively this time, is certainly the possibility of reorganising this public enterprise, which will make it more competitive on the market, then, the possibility of improving, what we have seen in particular, environmental protection, which it insists in the EU, which in general insists on in this global traffic policy. The railway industry has a very young sector that deals successfully and well with this very issue and is very noticeable in the domain of its work, not only in Serbia, but also beyond. So we expect this law to be really a modern law that will follow European laws in every respect and allow for the improvement of this traffic and further and better co-operation. The railway cannot be excluded from international co-operation. All traffic flows are in fact related to international traffic flows and that is why Serbia is very important geopolitical and traffic strategically important in this very area and that is the advantage we need to take advantage of. This law will certainly improve the work of the Directorate. This law will allow budget investment to be reduced. In any case, this law will bring in a more modern railway and what it needs to do in the future, it is a greater interest and interest in the economy and travellers once so modern and for the transport of goods with such a modern railway. Serbia alone with such a railway can be competitive and can be in modern Europe, in a modern world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15484	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP, Karol Chizik.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15485	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is on the agenda of the Railways Act today. The proposal is attached to the existing law, which is logical. He's trying to fix all the shortcomings and the bad side of the law. In a sense, that's fine. Good laws are also needed for the good functioning of the railway. It's necessary but not sufficient conditions. Good professional staff and good technical conditions are needed. Unfortunately, we miss all this other stuff. For nothing, we pass laws that are at least the best in the world, when our train stations are 100 years old, they're messy, the roofs are sneezing, the windows are broken, the tracks are broken, so the railway stations are recognized by the mess, by the weeds of two meters, by the ruins. The tracks have grown into weeds, the bandits by the railroad have been stolen long ago, and now it's their turn to carry rails into old iron. I don't want to talk about locomotives. For example, we still have a Shinobus that's older than me in Sainta. It's a happy day when she can get to Saturday and back. The technical state of the railway, at least with us in Vojvodina, is such that if we could return locomotives, rails, stations and the entire infrastructure from 100 years ago, we would be happy. Then it was all new, everything worked, the order of driving was always respected, the passengers were traveling comfortably and safely. Freight traffic took place precisely. The goods were always on time and intact. The problems are much deeper, deeper than the fact that we can make changes to the law. The railroad is seriously ill. He's suffering from excessive centralization, like a lot of things in this country. For example, there is no "v" in this bill of law by the AP Vojvodina. No one thinks that it would be more useful and better for the Vojvodina to engage in the leadership of the railways. We have handed over amendments from the LSV parliamentary group that urinate such changes. Depending on the acceptance of our amendments, we will vote on the draft law on railways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15486	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger Zeljko Sušec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15487	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, aims to improve and make the rail system of the Republic of Serbia effective and integrate Serbian railways into EU rail systems. During the five-year follow-up period, many shortcomings in the current Railway Act have been observed. The lack of a valid railway law has been found by the Ministry of Traffic and Railway Directorates. In the course of law enforcement, shortcomings have been identified that required compliance with the new packages of the EU Directive, as well as the extension of the railway section. The Railway Directorate did not have the right under the existing law to submit sublegal acts adopted under the Law on the Safety of Railway Traffic, although they are necessary for the safe conduct of rail traffic. The new draft law on railways as one of many objectives has exactly the aim of harmonising the law with the draft law on the safety and interoperability of railways that is done in parallel with this law. Special attention to the new law is given to the regulation of combined transport i.e. transport where most of the road is carried out by rail services. Despite this importance and potential, this part has been ignored by the current Law on Railways. In particular, the proposal for a railway law highlights the significant achievement and precision of the part of the law governing access to rail infrastructure and its improvement. Another newspaper envisioned by the new railway law is the introduction of a national railway infrastructure programme, which brings the National Assembly of RS to the government's proposal and represents an act of national importance in the railway area. The new law also envisions the realisation of railway infrastructure that was neglected during the previous period due to the weakened economy and the country's economy. The new law also provides for the rights and means of giving to the management of railway infrastructure. The new laws create conditions for several railway undertakings and railway infrastructure managers, which should lead to competition and increased transport quality in rail transport. The new law obliges the state to provide a sound financial structure, especially on existing rail transport that is state-owned and represents the national interest of the state. Several working subgroups were formed during the construction of a new law at different stages, consisting of representatives of the most significant stakeholders, which are related to the area of rail traffic, such as the Railway Directorate, the AD Railway of Serbia, the company for the construction of the railway node "Belgrade" DOO, the Faculty of Transport and the tweening consultant and experts from the French and Lithuanian transport ministries. Public debates were held on the draft of the railway law, so that all interested entities could deliver their suggestions and objections to this law. The draft law on railways was published on the Ministry's website for traffic operations. This is where suggestions and comments were provided by individual sectors of "Serb Railways" AD, which concerned the protection of railway infrastructure and the application of the law governing public property. The province's secretariat for the economy and employment of the AP Vojvodina addressed under this law to the AP Vojvodina. The new railway law has also been approved by the European Commission's competent authorities, whose proposals and suggestions have been accepted in the most part and this has led to a positive opinion from the European Integration Office. Finally, the adoption of this law by emergency procedure by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is necessary for a reason because the failure to pass this law by emergency procedure would lead to significant adverse consequences for rail traffic and railway infrastructure in RS, as well as for the overall economy of the Republic of Serbia. For this reason, the SNS parliamentary group in the voting day will vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15488	The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15489	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have now come to the National Assembly to explain to us the three laws in Parliament, and you have done so in less than seven minutes, spending three minutes on the railway law and a little less than two minutes on each of these two laws that are on the agenda today. This shows how seriously you have prepared yourself for today's debate and what you and the Government of the Republic of Serbia thinks about the railway, because I can understand that in three minutes you present some law where we have no problems, but there are too many problems in the railways that someone who is a serious minister would take just three minutes to present the law to the MPs. We don't have fast tracks. We don't have any stripes, and that's a fact. We have an AD "Serb Railway" with abnormally large debts. We had no opportunity to hear about this in the opening statement from you, and you started your presentation with the following words – I feel contentment, responsibility and willingness to listen and accept suggestions and opinions from the MPs. That's how you started your presentation. I hope I've quoted you correctly. Mr. Minister, I think you only said that because here in the Assembly when you arrive there is a direct transfer and it should be heard by the citizens of Serbia. If you really thought you had to listen to the opinions of the MPs and any suggestions, you would be present today at a session of the Committee of the National Assembly that discussed this law. You weren't there today. It is not the first committee when you, as a resolution minister, do not attend to explain to the MPs who are members of the board a certain law. You've never attended a committee before. You haven't explained any of the laws of your jurisdiction. You were not present on the previous committee. Over 20 questions were asked there by your assistant. Those questions were related to the traffic section. The assistant knew only one question and was told that we would get all the answers in writing. Minister, it's been over a month. We have not received any answers as board members to the question – whether the reconstruction of the Kladovo-Nish road is planned and many other questions that were asked then. Even today as MPs, members of the board, we have not had the opportunity to hear from you personally at the board's session what you think of "The Railways of Serbia", what are the debts of the public undertaking "The Railway of Serbia". We haven't been able to hear it here today in this part of the debate. We haven't had a chance to hear the answers to many other questions. What prevented you from attending the board meeting today? We didn't get that answer from either of your two assistants who were at the session today, nor did we get from the board president because no one knew what you were prevented from attending the board session. When you say that you respect the opinions and suggestions of the MPs, then I think that you should come to the board meeting or, as far as I'm concerned, it's no problem for us to propose to the chairman of the committee that the committee sessions are also transferred directly to RTS, so I hope that we will have the opportunity to hear from you certain views and opinions regarding some new law that you propose to Parliament. The serious government is proposing serious laws, laws that can be applied in practice, and the rail law that is on the agenda today is not and you know it very well. You stated in the light of the law that one reason for the adoption of this law is to comply with the packages of the EU directive, but you agreed with three instead of four directives as needed. We had an opportunity from your assistant to hear that with one directive you were unable to comply with the law because it would be too expensive. You say the paper in this law is the introduction of a national railway infrastructure programme, and this national programme should be done by the government, to be confirmed by the National Assembly for a period of five years. Do you think Ministers, in five years we can solve all problems of railway infrastructure or does it take a national programme to be 10, 15 or 20 years? What can we do in five years? There's nothing we can do, even though you're optimistic that we can safely do it. You said in the debate that no one in the state's leadership until 2008 knew there were corridors, that the railways were zero. You'll probably be developing a tendency for the sun to revolve around the Earth soon, not the other way around. The problems that need to be solved by this law, which you wrote in your explanation, and the main problem for you is that there are no specific powers of the Railway Directorate for the adoption of sublegal regulations necessary for the safe and smooth operation of rail traffic. Is that the only problem that needs to be solved by this law, because that's the only problem you've listed in the explanation? Positive regulations could have been passed by the government. If these are the only problems, then the law says 24 months to pass all sublaws, if that's the only problem you say in the law. The law also provides for public enterprise reforms or AD Railway Serbia in four new companies. How much less are those four companies gonna cost us? Do you have an economic account? If we separate the AD Railways of Serbia, how much less will it cost the state? Today we had a chance to hear that the savings won't be at least in the first few years. Now I have to ask you, is that in two years, three, five, twenty-five? In how many years, we can expect savings from the reform of the public business of the railways of Serbia. less subsidies from the Republic budget, autonomous province or local self-government? While I am at the public company of the Serbian Railways, I must quote you again, you said, the appropriate MP, Judita Popovic, that you have never run a political policy in human resources policy, right, and that next to you are the three assistants who are Velini, so you said. I have to ask you, since you have another new assistant involved in traffic security, Mr. Mirkovic, since such an answer, you were not present, I couldn't win at the board's session. Is he the assistant minister or not? Did Mr. Mirkovic resign or not? And if he is when, and if he isn't, how dare you as Minister to allow him to be appointed a member of the interim authority in Zajecar? Which is why, at that cabinet session, you did not relieve him of the role of assistant minister, because these are incompatible functions, since the provisional body performs legislative and executive functions. I have to ask you the next question right now, because today your assistant said he was in charge of another resort, and at the previous board session, we had a chance to hear that he was on vacation when he started working, so where is he today, where is he yesterday? He receives a salary from here from the Republic, not the Zajecar municipality, where a temporary organ was established yesterday? So you know very well that it's incompatible for someone to be a member of the interim body and assistant minister. And I'm asking you why you didn't release Mr. Mirkovic from the post of Assistant Minister? Since you say that we are not asking you about human policy and that we in the LDP think that the Director-General of the Railways of Serbia is an extremely bad solution for the railway, I have to ask you, since I didn't get a chance today to answer the question about this train crash, is there anyone responsible in this country because of the train crash? Why hasn't the director called? Why didn't you call as Minister? In some serious states, the director would resign that day, and you probably the next day. In Japan it would be far worse, but here in Serbia everything goes, anything can and can't. So trains crash and nobody gets hit. Minister, I can invite you to eastern Serbia. I'm sure you won't be in a position to see trains crash. Do you know why? The train can't crash itself, because there's only one train out of Nis through Srlig, Zajcar gets to Negotina, and then that same train goes back. When you spoke to Mr. Pastor today, you said like this -- do you think it was easy to convince the south and east of Serbia that railways in the north were first made. I have to ask you, Minister, who you convinced of us who live in eastern Serbia or those who live in southern Serbia that we first need to work north. You convinced the MPs who voted in favour of the $800m loan to Russia where it is known exactly for what purposes the loan would be used. You didn't convince me as an East Serbian MP, I didn't vote for it. Two URS MPs from Zaječar voted, one SNS MP from Zaječar and one from Bor, but you cannot convince citizens that it is a priority north, and that we do not have any right to rails in the east, nor do any rights have citizens in the south. Minister, over there, if the average in Serbia is to travel 40km per hour, then you should know that in eastern Serbia it does not travel at more than 10km per hour. You're welcome to run by the train, you'll be there before the train. If we look at this bill, that Article 9 also existed in a previous law where local self-government and autonomous provinces can demand to manage some of the railways, where there is no state interest. It's clear that local self-government can do that, because it takes a lot of money. What does it mean, Minister, a member of the 15th Law that says that the infrastructure manager can suspend public transport of passengers and goods on railway infrastructure or part of railway infrastructure where public transport of passengers and goods becomes inconclusive with the consent of the Government? If we look at the situation in that section of the railway in eastern Serbia, it is absolutely possible to expect that we will be in a very quick situation to completely suspend passenger traffic there, because it is not really profitable. It's not profitable if you have one train, the only train from Nis to Negotina, so you wait for that same train to return. It's the only means of transport, that train, for many old people living in villages, who don't have bus transportation. Thus, Timočka Krajina, meaning eastern Serbia, would be completely shut down. These people are taking the train to the doctor. When you have this kind of rail traffic, then you ask the question – how can we at least ask those of us living in these parts, you can apply Article 15? A few years ago, we were in a position to make a decision on the suspension of passenger traffic, and with some great effort, that traffic was restarted. If we have 3,800km of track, and we rebuild 11km annually, let it be 30, then it should be clear to all of us here that it takes at least 200 or 300 years to rebuild all existing railways in Serbia. So, two or three centuries with the pace you're working on. I really don't like it when you say it, it really bothers me, I don't think the ministers did that job better before you, but the world didn't start from you either. Years ago, Serbia's Railways have been producing losses and years ago, no one invests in railways. When you say that the previous government has done nothing and that you are now starting from zero, then I have to ask myself a simple question – how do you keep three ministerial assistants from the previous government who you say has been unable to do her job? Isn't it logical that those people who didn't work, now I apologize to you, you may be doing well, changing or only the minister was guilty? Minister, you're always showing some optimism, so we have completed the corridor, many paved miles and a lot of it. I'm sure this railroad law won't bring in any faster tracks, it won't bring in a quick reconstruction of the railroad, nor will we have safer and better traffic. Indeed, I invite you and the director of the Serbian Railways to resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15490	Thank you. Considering it's 17.55 hours now, we're done. I'm sorry, Mrkonjic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15491	I'd be sorry if I didn't answer Miss or Mrs. Gerov, at least a little bit. I thought that in years, in which the shortness of time in the story means plus, in some other things, maybe minus, I was just short. All MPs had the law in mind, so I didn't mean to insult myself by imposing my thoughts, why did the lady or the lady accuse me of what I think of the law? I think about the law as well as we've applied some things from European standards and how much we're going to change things on the scale of that law, and no law is ideal. That's why I was very short, and I'll always be brief when I talk about laws. As far as criticism is concerned, of course that in years of knowledge, I say the second time, what is the situation in eastern Serbia, western Serbia and the north. I didn't mention the tracks, I was talking about the road. As always in Serbia, years ago, there are a lot of people here who remember what I'm saying. I'm watching Mom Colakovic, my friend, always made up his mind, whether the north, whether the south, whether the east, whether the west. That doesn't need to be hidden, what's the problem? But when we talked about it, then we said, let's, let's say, go to Corridor 10 on the highway, we're going north, we're going east, we're going south, and we did it parallelly, and we did it. Now they're working on these construction sites. The north was finished because the geography was easier. So, I was talking about the road, not the railroad. As far as the railroad itself is concerned, it's not going to be a law that we're adopting today, so I thought we should pay more attention to the law, change anything if we, in the implementation of that law, when I say, think of ourselves first, are not in that sense effective, to follow what the law says. I said it once, and I'm going to do it one more time. It is important to separate infrastructure and infrastructure costs from transport. It's already a big deal for our railroad. That's what guarantees that we'll be able to keep track of the costs and that what you're saying, subsidies from the state, to call them that, to cut them short. I will personally try, if there is no reconstruction in the government or any other changes, and I am grateful to you for suggesting that you replace me. With special pleasure, maybe I'll hear that, and if it doesn't, I'll follow it, and I'll try to make this happen, so we finally know what's costing us what. That's the point. That's not how it's been so far. Now I hope it will be. What is very important, this transport competition, I repeat for the third time, is very important that even private people who have the opportunity to compete with a state-owned transport company. I think it's important things in the law and the law defines it. Of course, the railway program in general, you're absolutely right, it has to be under day-to-day control not only of the government but of the Assembly, we'll see how we do it. The railroad is a large system without which the state should not operate and cannot operate. As for the other things, I'm grateful for the proposal to take my place. With special pleasure, I'll accept that. I'm not mad at you. When a woman so beautiful replaces me, it's a big deal and believe me, I'm very happy about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15492	Thank you. Radmila Gerov, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15493	Minister, you do not answer my question again – what is the debt of the Serbian railway company? When you say that any law can be applied and that you would like this law to be applicable in practice, and that it depends on you and on the government and on those people who are in the leading places, above all, you will agree, depending on the CEO of the Railways of Serbia until it is divided into four long companies. Then the question arises, since Mr Simonovic was appointed before the Law on Public Enterprises entered into force, a man who has graduated from the Union College, where is his basic recommendation that he was president of the Union of Youth or something – as long as, ministers, this government and this state favour the staff from private colleges at the expense of staff and students from the state college? Do you think, as minister, that he is an excellent solution, Mr Simonovic, and that he will be able to implement a law that is on the agenda today? I absolutely believe that he can't make it out, which means that even if you say that you have a good intention of being applied in practice, it won't be applied because of such personnel.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15494	Minister Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15495	I must say, I believe that Mr. Simonovic, together with me, will make this law known. Once again, I underline, the party, although I don't like to talk about politics, which has the most votes, has the right to set up personnel. Of course, it's our job to ask for the responsibility of those personnel. I didn't answer the question about Mr. Mirkovic. Yes, Mirkovic is an assistant transport minister in the area of traffic security. He's set up in the place you're talking about before the holiday and tomorrow or the day after tomorrow we'll have the right attitude, what can happen to him about what you said. He resigned, but he resigned, and today he's on vacation and I can't control him, he has the right to be in Zajecar. So I'll know in a day or two. I'm calling you personally, until you change me, please, I'm at Nemanja's 11, whenever you want. All these topics you've been talking about, every MP, I'm ready all day to spend and to agree on it and tell you my opinion and the state of the railways. Thank you very much for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-08-0.u15496	Thank you. We're finishing work for today and continuing tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you. Dear People's MPs, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Given that today is Thursday, I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, would like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
