ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21223	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the session is attended by 111 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 92 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the president of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of the motions of Mr Velimir Ilic, Minister of Civil Engineering and Urbanism, has also called for the sittings to be attended by Zoran Krajovic, Director of the Republic Geodetic Institute and Milan Kuzmanovic Kostic, Assistant Director of the Republic Geodetic Institute. We continue with the principled review of the 1st item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE State PREMISE AND THE CASTER Does any of the authorised presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to speak? The word has a folk letter from Susana Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21224	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers with fellow Members, fellow Members and fellow Members, amendments and additions to the Law on State Prime Minister and Cataster are to the greatest extent necessary and expected, given that there are certain shortcomings in the current application of the law, as well as accumulated problems in the functioning of the Republic Geodesy Institute. The objective of the amendment and addition of the Law on State Prime Minister and Cataster is to address existing problems and improve the system of catastrian business. The amendments and additions to the Law on State Prime Minister and Cataster primarily relate to the introduction of supplementary coefficients for salaries and different titles for employees in the Republic of Geodetic Office, all in order to increase the motivation of employees and better provide services to citizens. In the light of the law, we could read that, as a reason for the regulation of titles and wages in the Law on State Time and Cataster, the need to bring this law into line with the Law on Civil Servants. Another reason is the increase in the size of the work, which, among other things, took place because of the Law on Special Conditions for the Registration of Objects, which we adopted in March of this year, business on data collection needed for the implementation of the Catastre project and the registration of rights, as well as other tasks limited by deadlines. Add coefficients to each employee will be determined by the Director of the Institute, by a solution based on the responsibilities of workers, education, jobs etc. The fact is that the director is the managing authority, who has control and who has the best insight as much as he does, what effect he has on his job. However, we are in a dilemma whether this kind of authority should be given to the director. No doubt his objectivity or subjectivity, as well as his assessment, will be questioned. Therefore, either it is necessary to define the criteria or standards more clearly or to find another solution. The requirements of staff in the Republic Geodetic Institute, as well as staff in the catastries at the level of local self-government, have just gone in the direction that executive jobs in the Institute are classified by title, depending on the degree of responsibility, on the workplace, on the conditions of work, from geodetic referents with medium professional training, geodetic associates with basic vocational studies, to independent professional associate, senior expert associate, etc. and according to that, to determine the height of the salary and the additional coefficients. The increase in the coefficients, i.e. the introduction of an additional coefficient on employee earnings, will inevitably affect cost increases. You, Mr. Minister, explained yesterday that employees at the Geodetic Institute were receiving additional amounts of salaries from budget reserves because their basic salary was low. Maybe I didn't get it right, you listen to me, and maybe later you'll explain it better. So far, we've been a disaster, the parties have been paying both taxes and fees for one service, and that was the first self-funding, and then a year ago, two of them have gone to budget funds, and these funds have paid the fees. This law provides for fees to be abolished, to remain only taxes. You said nothing would change, as far as costs are concerned, that additional coefficients would now be paid out of those funds from which additional payments were paid. If we cancel the fees, there's no extra funding, taxes remain. I'm fenced, maybe I didn't get it right, and I expect you to explain it. In addition, I think we also need to take care of how a member of this law will affect employees in other areas, who also have an increased volume of work, who do not have any allowances from budget reserves, do not have the right to additional coefficients and are demoted by small salaries. This is how we put them in a subordinate and unequal position. To be clear, we in the SPS are in favour, we don't mind that workers at the Republic Geodetic Institute have bigger salaries, we advocate that everyone has bigger salaries, we advocate that all citizens are employed, but we are just asking the question – is now, at a time when the crisis is, when we are all saving at all levels, when we are saving in parliament, when just a few days ago we adopted a budget rebalance that plans to save in all ministries, should we now pass this law? In addition, not only to be critical, it is important to say that these amendments and additions of the Law will nevertheless quite edit this area and cause a number of positive effects. First of all, the amendments to the Law will also allow the geodetic organisation, which does not have an employee with a geodetic license, to perform geodetic works in reflecting the cataster of immobility, the cadastre of waterways and the realization of a geodetic marking project in the area of urban planning, if it has at least two geodetic workers, with at least a secondary geodetic school, a state-run expert exam for this professional preparation and a working experience of at least three years with that expertise. Under the current law, that was not possible. For the sake of reminders, the 2009 State Prime Minister and Cataster Act, which prescribed strict conditions for the performance of geodetic works, had been forced to stop working by a significant number of geodetic organisations, and a large number of people with medium expertise in the geodetic profession had run out of work. The new legal solution will directly affect the survival of existing and the creation of new geodetic organisations. Also, amending and supplementing laws has expanded the types of geodetic works that geodetic organisations can perform. Under the current law, it is also necessary for the geodetic organisation to be registered with the competent authority of the Republic of Serbia to perform geodetic works, to have working rooms and to possess appropriate measuring instruments and equipment. A geodetic organisation which has not coordinated its business, as referred to in Article 195(1). The law, and which has been abolished by the Republic of Geodetic Institute by a decision on the fulfilment of the conditions for work, is required to register in the prescribed time limit, i.e. to apply to the Republic of Geodetic Office for the issue of a work licence. In addition to the above, the number of persons who can obtain the geodetic licence of the first and second rows has been expanded. By amending the law of a particular category of person, they will be able to get copies of the Geodetic Katastrian Information System free of charge. Also, the Republic of Serbia, the AP, the unit of local self-government and their bodies and organisations are exempt from paying office fees from the workaround of the office -- the issue of copies from the Geodetic Katastrian Information System and insight into geodetic cadastrian affairs. I must note that no member is provided for a priority solution at the request of a party that is in a situation where they need urgent cadastrian service within shorter deadlines than those prescribed by the law, although it is a recommendation from the Anti-Corruption Agency. It is the fact that the Regulation on the amount of the compensation for the use of data in the diameter of the cataster and the provision of services to the Republic of Geodetic Office has prescribed that double fees are charged in order to provide data and services at the urgent and explicit request of the party. The Anti-Corruption Agency said such a solution poses a risk of corruption and the issue of emergency services for citizens by the cadastrian services should be regulated by law. We expected this law to be settled. I would point out that the law stipulates that any interested person can, on the Internet, make free of charge, gain insight into certain information from the Geodetic Katastrian Information System, which will be specified by means of a sublegal act. This will make it quite easier for citizens to see at any moment who is a cadastrian owner, which is the area of the plot, at which borders, had recorded observations, burdens, mortgages, etc., which will increase security in all possible availability of cadastrian parcels and facilities. Article 8 introduces inspection supervision of the work of legal entities, which deals with the publication of cartographic publications, which will prevent the publication and placing on the market of cartographic publications without the law of the prescribed consent of the Republic of Geodetic Institute and contribute to increasing their quality and reliability. The current law for the most difficult forms of irregular and illegal work requires permanent withdrawal of the geodetic licence. There is an opinion that this is too harsh and the bill provides for minor measures – temporary withdrawal of the licence or banning work from three months to three years. However, the dilemma is whether we should accept the proposal of milder measures, given the importance of the regularity of geodetic affairs in our people. I have many examples in practice that citizens have been in conflict with the border for years, that the importance of proper geometer work is great and that trust in those who do geodetic work is difficult to achieve, and easily loses, especially in these times. Certain questions not precisely set out in this law, e.g. the level of fees for the services of the Geodetic Institute, will be regulated by the adoption of a sublegal act, as well as the area of issue of geodetic licences and licences for the work of geodetic organisations. You also said, Mr. Minister, that the law had long been expected, that there were many problems in the Republic Cataster, that there was a need to resolve the status of geometry, salary, employee coefficients and so forth. You said very little about what the real problems are in practice, the problems in the business of catastra, the problems that employees have with the parties who are in a situation of daily demand for catastra services. Catastre is very important. The catastra shall keep records of the ownership of the immovable property, records of the position and size of the parcel. Catastar does not issue building permits, but is the first in a series to provide the necessary documentation for further implementation of projects and obtaining construction permits, and the last in a series when the property is recorded on parcels or built objects that have the use of the permit. It is true that many investors give up construction precisely from the fact that workers in the catastro are unsustainable, that they do not hold deadlines for enrolling deadlines to issue a solution to the conclusions and so on. These are serious questions that will have to be resolved as soon as possible. There are other situations that are unfavourable to the citizens. I can give you an example, I do this job, and I co-operate with the cathedral every day. If a party wishing to enter its property over a parcel or facility, in addition to the request, submits the necessary documentation and pays the fee, for some reasons fails to submit any document, a cadastre within a time limit, which is certainly longer than the prescribed law, it shall draw a conclusion on the refusal of the party's request. Not a problem in a taxi, the money for a given fee returns, the problem is in the time the party loses while applying, as it goes after a refund of money she gave for taxes etc. Was it not easier to predict that the tax would be paid at the moment when the solution was made that the party's request was correct and that the book could be completed? Believe me, it's much easier, saving time and parties and catastre. I think you should think about it after all. This law is not all arranged, there is much more to be arranged, but certainly a shift has been made in solving the problem of cadastrian business. With this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on State Crossover and Catastrophe, we must say that the cadastre is now becoming a partner in the development of both state and local self-government, and so far it has been a service. With the suspension of taxis, paid by the Republic, local self-government and provinces, it is now a situation that the catastre is a developing partner. After many years, the Republic of Serbia has reached a key issue of EU accession and is obliged to meet the appropriate criteria. You talked about it yesterday. The very fact raised the vital issue of infrastructure development and the arrangements of a catastrian operation. In recent years, this issue has been greatly intensified, both in the country and by external factors. Geodesy represents an inevitable link in the construction of the Republic of Serbia's infrastructure chain. With our modern technologies, our skills, our engineering techniques, we provide opportunities that meet modern criteria. The SPS parliamentary group will certainly support the amendment and addition of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21225	Thank you. The word has Minister Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21226	I just want to answer some questions that you asked. I answered some yesterday, and now I'd like to do it again; so we don't have similar problems today. You know that the catastre has funded itself for years. So, he had taxes and he completely financed from it, and a large portion of the funds and stayed. However, the government has made a decision that all catastra revenues go directly to the budget and that the catastra has no more its own income. Catastar financed himself, rewarded employees who had low incomes. I said yesterday, about 300 workers have a salary between 23,000 and 25,000 dinars. And they stayed with low incomes, but it was compensated through overtime, out on the ground, various forms of stimulation, which were paid out of the Geodetic Institute's own incomes. However, by taking these revenues into the budget, they had to come to the government each first to ask from the budget reserve to replace them so that they could receive decent salaries, about the receipts we heard yesterday and in various discussions that were raised here. They will not give, they will not announce the strike, they will not work, they will wait and it will happen and then we will move on. He wanted it to be regulated through the law and that there was nothing else, that's it. That we don't go to finance anymore and the financials don't look through our fingers. They said, "People, come on, make a law to see what the mass is, to predict and to be resolved once and for all." That's what the employee union was looking for, that's what everybody was looking for. And they've been asking for years, to have the pay they're really getting, but to be regulated by law. So nothing in the crowd changes, it just legalizes. I agree with you, there are a few amendments I've looked at that will regulate it. It's not right and it's going to have some kind of rule that's there or through that amendment that's attached to regulation with these receipts, the increase is so much, those with a profit of 23,000 will get 50%, and those with higher incomes 3% and that will be defined. It's not right for the director to decide. I couldn't agree more, I was against it at first. So it's just the same thing as it is. As for these obligations of the Catastra to fulfil certain obligations, where you set the example that there is no efficiency etc., the cataster solves everything without a problem. That's what I'm saying from experience. But we have a lot of unresolved property relations in Serbia. We have an unsolved restitution, we have an unsolved conversion, we have an unresolved property issue, and it's not defined, and all these problematic cases are, minors, in a dispute. There's a catastra's infirmity. If you're in any court dispute, you can't betray anything, give, sign up until the dispute is over. Disputes last for up to 10 years. We have recently spoken to the Minister of Justice that many problems have been resolved once and that issue has been resolved. Of course, through the Law on Planning and Construction, we must also resolve the issue of conversion. We've gone from one form of property to another form, and we haven't legally solved it, and we've left it to some court expert to solve it, to cut it, which is wrong. Everyone in the world who's seen it, they say it's a matter of corruption. You give one man to come out and evaluate, to determine the height of the conversion. That's really inappropriate. So we have to get that into the legal framework and regulate it. We hope that experts working on this problem will give the most favourable solution and when the law comes, I mean in September, here in parliament that we will be able to discuss it. We want to arrange a cadastre, to know what the catastres are, to know how much it costs the state and what their obligations are to that money. This matter of frames is extremely important, because we have environments where we don't have a frame. We can't turn off the cadastre there now, but we have to do something through education, professional training, and get these people into a position so they can go out on the ground to measure something, measure, type, etc. We have environments where it's impossible to bring a surveyor now or a graduate lawyer, to come to work, who dealt with the disaster, who dealt with the property issue. I'm very sorry, but that's impossible. We then introduced people from other places for one day a week, which is not enough. Now you have one lawyer who comes into a town and in seven days, he gets a bunch of items there, and he needs to sort it all out, solve it. There we have to, as a state, do a lot of things to get these people to work out, but we primarily wanted to get through this to reward ourselves. When he sees the pay in the rulebook, he won't come. Now you say to him, "Well, you'll be stimulated." He says to you, "I'm sorry, I'm signing a solution, so it's sad, I won't." When we change the solution and say, "Here, it says so much in the solution." Otherwise, with some parts of your discussion, I completely agree, they're in place and we'll do everything we can to make it better. Catastre is important to the state, very important. Without him, he can't go anywhere, he can't end it. When you finish your job, book with them, when you start, you can't start without them if you don't own the property. We really need to solve this property issue. It's a big problem for Serbia. We have thousands and thousands of acres where property status isn't resolved. It was very easy to buy through privatisation. But what about that land? You saw in Kać recently that case, people bought for 100,000 euros and resold, translated into city construction and earned 300m euros. Why? Well, they took advantage of some possibilities of legal, different relationships and did it and made enormously rich. Now the state has to regulate it. That is why Serbia's biggest problem -- the issue of citizens' property and the property of certain companies that have moved from the social sector, the state sector, into private hands and transferred millions. He bought a hundred acres to deal with sugar tails, but if he translates it now into city building land, into an industrial zone, he's earned a hundred. We have to solve this issue and it's very important with this law on planning and construction. Otherwise, with these parts of your discussion I am fully agreed, especially this – the director cannot sit and cut. It can't, it has to be done through the rulebook, through an agreement they'll make, of course, with their leadership. That's where the unions activated. They make the agreement distributed and will know exactly what categories of class they can have of increases. Thank you for the discussion that was extremely good.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21227	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21228	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we agree that the catastra arrangement is one of the most important things in a country. Thus, we realize that this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on State measure and catastros is, at the very least, unserious. It is unserious because of all the problems that exist in the cataster, this law refers only to the regulation of employees' salaries, i.e. Their increase to 50% and the cab area. The problems that plague our citizens, the way they enter, about speeding up the procedure, there's hardly a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21229	Thank you. The word has Minister Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21230	I just want to answer some questions that you asked. I answered some yesterday, and now I'd like to do it again; so we don't have similar problems today. You know that the catastre has funded itself for years. So, he had taxes and he completely financed from it, and a large portion of the funds and stayed. However, the government has made a decision that all catastra revenues go directly to the budget and that the catastra has no more its own income. Catastar financed himself, rewarded employees who had low incomes. I said yesterday, about 300 workers have a salary between 23,000 and 25,000 dinars. And they stayed with low incomes, but it was compensated through overtime, out on the ground, various forms of stimulation, which were paid out of the Geodetic Institute's own incomes. However, by taking these revenues into the budget, they had to come to the government each first to ask from the budget reserve to replace them so that they could receive decent salaries, about the receipts we heard yesterday and in various discussions that were raised here. They will not give, they will not announce the strike, they will not work, they will wait and it will happen and then we will move on. He wanted it to be regulated through the law and that there was nothing else, that's it. That we don't go to finance anymore and the financials don't look through our fingers. They said, "People, come on, make a law to see what the mass is, to predict and to be resolved once and for all." That's what the employee union was looking for, that's what everybody was looking for. And they've been asking for years, to have the pay they're really getting, but to be regulated by law. So nothing in the crowd changes, it just legalizes. I agree with you, there are a few amendments I've looked at that will regulate it. It's not right and it's going to have some kind of rule that's there or through that amendment that's attached to regulation with these receipts, the increase is so much, those with a profit of 23,000 will get 50%, and those with higher incomes 3% and that will be defined. It's not right for the director to decide. I couldn't agree more, I was against it at first. So it's just the same thing as it is. As for these obligations of the Catastra to fulfil certain obligations, where you set the example that there is no efficiency etc., the cataster solves everything without a problem. That's what I'm saying from experience. But we have a lot of unresolved property relations in Serbia. We have an unsolved restitution, we have an unsolved conversion, we have an unresolved property issue, and it's not defined, and all these problematic cases are, minors, in a dispute. There's a catastra's infirmity. If you're in any court dispute, you can't betray anything, give, sign up until the dispute is over. Disputes last for up to 10 years. We have recently spoken to the Minister of Justice that many problems have been resolved once and that issue has been resolved. Of course, through the Law on Planning and Construction, we must also resolve the issue of conversion. We've gone from one form of property to another form, and we haven't legally solved it, and we've left it to some court expert to solve it, to cut it, which is wrong. Everyone in the world who's seen it, they say it's a matter of corruption. You give one man to come out and evaluate, to determine the height of the conversion. That's really inappropriate. So we have to get that into the legal framework and regulate it. We hope that experts working on this problem will give the most favourable solution and when the law comes, I mean in September, here in parliament that we will be able to discuss it. We want to arrange a cadastre, to know what the catastres are, to know how much it costs the state and what their obligations are to that money. This matter of frames is extremely important, because we have environments where we don't have a frame. We can't turn off the cadastre there now, but we have to do something through education, professional training, and get these people into a position so they can go out on the ground to measure something, measure, type, etc. We have environments where it's impossible to bring a surveyor now or a graduate lawyer, to come to work, who dealt with the disaster, who dealt with the property issue. I'm very sorry, but that's impossible. We then introduced people from other places for one day a week, which is not enough. Now you have one lawyer who comes into a town and in seven days, he gets a bunch of items there, and he needs to sort it all out, solve it. There we have to, as a state, do a lot of things to get these people to work out, but we primarily wanted to get through this to reward ourselves. When he sees the pay in the rulebook, he won't come. Now you say to him, "Well, you'll be stimulated." He says to you, "I'm sorry, I'm signing a solution, so it's sad, I won't." When we change the solution and say, "Here, it says so much in the solution." Otherwise, with some parts of your discussion, I completely agree, they're in place and we'll do everything we can to make it better. Catastre is important to the state, very important. Without him, he can't go anywhere, he can't end it. When you finish your job, book with them, when you start, you can't start without them if you don't own the property. We really need to solve this property issue. It's a big problem for Serbia. We have thousands and thousands of acres where property status isn't resolved. It was very easy to buy through privatisation. But what about that land? You saw in Kać recently that case, people bought for 100,000 euros and resold, translated into city construction and earned 300m euros. Why? Well, they took advantage of some possibilities of legal, different relationships and did it and made enormously rich. Now the state has to regulate it. That is why Serbia's biggest problem -- the issue of citizens' property and the property of certain companies that have moved from the social sector, the state sector, into private hands and transferred millions. He bought a hundred acres to deal with sugar tails, but if he translates it now into city building land, into an industrial zone, he's earned a hundred. We have to solve this issue and it's very important with this law on planning and construction. Otherwise, with these parts of your discussion I am fully agreed, especially this – the director cannot sit and cut. It can't, it has to be done through the rulebook, through an agreement they'll make, of course, with their leadership. That's where the unions activated. They make the agreement distributed and will know exactly what categories of class they can have of increases. Thank you for the discussion that was extremely good.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21231	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21232	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we agree that the catastra arrangement is one of the most important things in a country. Thus, we realize that this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on State measure and catastros is, at the very least, unserious. It is unserious because of all the problems that exist in the cataster, this law refers only to the regulation of employees' salaries, i.e. Their increase to 50% and the cab area. The problems that plague our citizens, the way they enter, about speeding up the procedure, there's hardly a word. This law has 30 members, and over 60 amendments have been made to this law, which means that it is very unprofessionally written. It's inextricably written the same way we've seen unprofessional oak rescue in the Savinci. The first solution was for the oak to dislodge, to be like the paprika or tomatoes to be planted elsewhere and to continue to grow and develop, which is absurd. Another way was to cover it with a steel lining and install some glass pasarella. I asked my students from Belgrade's Faculty of Civil Engineering to give an idea solution according to how the minister described this solution with a steel lining and a glass passport. It's impossible to solve this if you don't want to cut 60% of the oak tree. And if you cut 60%... (President: Mr. Senic, to return to the topic. This is the topic, yesterday we talked about oak all day, to let you know, since you weren't there yesterday. So it's impossible to cut 60% of the cross and keep the oak alive. In Dnevnik you explained that it is impossible to move the bridge because certain pillars on the bridges have already been poured out. Yesterday we heard that they weren't poured out and that it was possible to move the bridge. I want to believe you and I want to believe that the oak problem is finally solved. And what I really believe in is that Corridor 11 has bypassed every pub. So yesterday, you said that no bar will be torn down because of Corridor 11 and I trust you 100%, and based on what I believe in you, I want to believe you that the oak is finally solved. Let's get back to the Law of Payments in the Catastrophe. Will the employees after the adoption of this law work more? I don't think so. I think they're already working as hard as they can. You say they're depressed, they can't work as hard as they're supposed to, and I really think people are trying there and working as hard as they can. But there's a limit. When we adopted the Law on the Registration of Objects built without a building permit, we warned you here that the cadastre had no capacity. You yourself said that 720,000 cases were passed from various secretaries of urbanism and city administrations to the Catastre and that the catastre should now act on these matters. How, when you said yesterday that there are four or five lawyers in all of Serbia who are at the disposal of the cataster and they can only solve these cases? My budget is that the entry of property on these facilities will take 50 years. On the other hand, in a year you hired over 10,000 party officials in the state administration and public enterprises, people who are not doing anything and who are paid to say that someone is beautiful and smart and that this government is doing well, and you didn't hire people where they really need them, in a catastro, to solve citizens' problems. Why does the cadastre have 650 clerks per contract? Why does he have 179 or about 200 employees per contract for a certain period of time? How do you plan to keep the experts if you don't give them a contract of work? There are certain solutions that are inadmissible to this law. First, the price of services provided by the cadastre cannot be prescribed by the Director. Article 25 of this Act provides that the director prescribes a price list of services, i.e. determines the fees. A control factor must be established and at least go to the government or the Ministry of Finance. They're discriminating employees in the catastrophe. You said lawyers were needed. You've been complaining about the information system. And by this law you discriminate against them, you put them in a subordinate position compared to the employed geodetic professions. We gave the amendment to make it right. So, the catastre can't work without a lawyer and without an informer, and they all have to be motivated enough to work and have the same profits. I hope you accept that amendment. You predicted that the Republic of Serbia and local self-government would pay fees for enrolment of property rights over bookable facilities. It is not logical for the Republic of Serbia to pay its own tax to its own body. We have submitted an amendment that will exempt both the Republic of Serbia and local self-government from registration fees for property rights over their property. What is really urgent and what is crucial for the adoption and adoption of this Assembly, in order to attract foreign investment, is the harmonisation of the Law on Planning and Construction, the Law on State Prime Minister and Cataster and the Law on Agricultural Land. Not all the laws in your vault. But if this government, in reconstruction or not, is still functioning, these laws need to be agreed as soon as possible. You won't get any results from the Quick Answers Office. I hope the director of the catastra, who is present here, is aware of that and I hope that he can point out that when a request comes from the Office of Quick Answers to Katastro to register or resolve an emergency case, he will not be able to resolve the case by law of State and the Catastro if there is an object at the second stage of the ministry, where there are more than 30,000 unsolved cases awaiting a resolution. That's why the cadastre is blocked, which is why the blocked investments are blocked, and therefore President Nikolic cannot keep his promise that 10 billion euros of investment will come annually. Regardless of our position that the law is unserious, it is certainly necessary, because the work-legal status of employees is regulated. We've given the amendments and we'll try to fix that law. But it takes much more serious changes to the Law of the Cataster to make investment in this country easier to implement. One more thing I'd say. You were talking about fictitious extra hours of work. You talked about writing fictional papers on the ground, i.e. Outings on the ground. Who guarantees that such practice, since it is already established, will not be continued? If it continues with such a practice, of course the total cash mass which is now provided for wages and which you claim will not be breached, will be breached. I expect you to consider our amendments, to the greatest extent that you accept them, and we will later define our position under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21233	Thank you. The word has Minister Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21234	I thank you, sir, for your suggestions and everything you've given. I'm glad you understood the problems only now that you're an opposition. You've had this problem for four years. You had your director, Tesla, the famous Tesla, who went around the world to make a good law. So he went a little bit to South America and spent months down there, so he was a little bit in China, in Japan, where everything wasn't to make a good law, but the roads didn't end in four years, it took him maybe four more years, and when he was replaced, he had to continue some of his travels and he asked us to circle the cycle. And it took a very long time and it cost a lot. You've received these 550 contractors, you didn't want to give them, so you've seen them, if they're not good, they go home right away, the next day they come new. That suits you because he was scared and blinking at the GZ from the director. You had the director's full authority, just call and say goodbye from tomorrow and get a new one. Ivam had it all worked out at the time. It's true there are 30,000 items. It's true that I inherited 30,000 items in the second degree and there's not one more that's just been reduced since then by 10 grand, and now there's 20 grand. It's true you had 720,000 cases in legalization and you didn't solve any of them. Why, I don't know. It's good that you're thinking now that you're trying to help, it's all good, it's good that you realized that the director can't be as yours said, God and beating, as he used to say. It's about the director being the one person who's gonna have a relationship with the government, with everyone, and that's all good. We want to change that, that's why we're making the law, and you didn't want that law. It's true that your employees have been strikein' for every salary. When I came first, I was met with a strike of workers. They don't work until they get this difference from finance. There's no difference now, and you can't get anything out of the budget reserve afterwards. You can't share what you said fashion will be. He can't. A deal with the finance ministry has no demand or support. So everyone's wrong. You've figured out your mistakes, and it's good that you've figured it out. Maybe you'll be in power again sometime. Don't be so boastful. Don't do what you did in Belgrade, where now 1,000 lawyers can't break up that property, you understand. Don't do and build what you did without permission, no cadastre, no geometry, no offers, no nothing. It's no good. It's no good. Don't teach us how to work in a building. You've been in an earthquake by the Royals and arrested the entire party there. They've arrested the entire ministry. What's that look like? Now, stock reserve, I don't know what happened, there's nothing there, and it's now on the agenda. I'm glad you realized that you're going to be cooperative now, to work together, to change laws, to slowly get the country in line, and that's good. It's good for all of us, good for Serbia, better ever than never. Thank you very much. What you suggested we accept the triggers, because that was the time, only you could have done it five years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21235	Mr. Veselinović, did you want any injuries to the Rules of Procedure or replica? The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21236	I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, that you've learned little from my exposure, nor have I participated in the past government, nor have I brought solutions to the catastrus, nor have I shared fertilizer, nor have I renewed the King. So I didn't do any of that. I'm just asking that for my incompetence and intricacies to be shown by this law, because you wrote this law, or your commission, which I told you about the last time there was an entry of illegal objects, to replace it, because it's not doing a good job. I ask you not to accuse other parties of your indifference and intricacy, but to do your job, if you really think you know how to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21237	First Minister Ilic, then Mr Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21238	First, I didn't tell you personally, I told the party that exercised power. Secondly, you have a great responsibility as a party. Today you rule over four million Serbian citizens. The biggest problems in the cataster, you know they're in Belgrade, New Sad. Who's the government in Belgrade? So, two million people. Who's the government in Vojvodina? Where are the biggest problems? In Vojvodina, Kaq, this is all there, arrests, urban mafia, etc. So you see where the problem is. We don't have problems in Lebanon, Surdulica, we don't have problems in Chačka, Kragujevac, we don't. All the problems are in Vojvodina and Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21239	Minister, please let's get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21240	Mr. Ambassador, help to introduce yourself a little bit, and I'm glad you didn't participate in this, because you're a young man, I expect you to work hard together and make it work, and God will make it so.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21241	Mr. Veselinović, replica on behalf of DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21242	This may be the replica and advertising of the Rules of Procedure, but make it a replica. I don't think Mr. Ilic deserves to be a minister with a dictionary like this, nor deserves to stay in the O.R. after this exposure. The chairman, you should have warned him a little while ago. He uses a dictionary that is not worthy of this congregation home. First of all, the chaos in the building, i.e. chaos in this area regarding the construction of buildings and registrations in the register, you yourself, Mr. Minister, by releasing the Law on the registration of illegally built objects into the assembly procedure. Afterwards, the legalisation process was suspended, after which all the cases were moved to the Catastre and then the catastro was brought into general chaos. So now there's no legalisation process, no enrollment, and there's no word on the promise of free legalization. It's embarrassing and irresponsibly irresponsible of you to give lessons about illegal construction. Didn't you personally build an illegal clinic, up there on the hill of your town, and didn't you force journalists who wanted to take pictures of it? Who are you giving lessons for illegal construction? You don't have any moral basis to talk about this area, because you've created a general mess in this area. You, who have suspended any construction in the Republic of Serbia without talking about foreign investors who have no idea how to invest in such an unsettled country.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21243	Time, Mr. Veselinovic. The word has Minister Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21244	I'm very sorry, I speak very correctly and I choose the words, Mr. President of the Parliament Group, I choose the words extremely. You've insulted me, and I've never told you anything, you've told me everything, but no problem, I'm not angry. It is true that the Law on Legalization is out of force. Why do you think? The Constitutional Court ruled Dulic's 2009 law, declared him illegal, and the Constitutional Court annulled him, and that's why we don't have legalization. Entering the Immobilization Catalogue, what is it? The constitutional right of every citizen to sign up for his property. What you're saying and what your bosses sent me to the press to ask for permission, so I didn't give them, that's your problem. When the inspector came, he saw all the permits and all the papers, which the public and everyone else had, and you had your reporter, so you sent him with a camera to ask for permission on that site, it's nowhere to be found. When the official face comes, it gets all the papers. So all the permits exist and that story of yours doesn't drink water. You're building these approaches on the bridge today, your famous one, here on Ada, without a single paper, without a building permit. Do you have a building permit? You don't. Do you have anything for the bridge? You don't. When are you gonna get it? Never, because you can't make papers. So, what are you doing? You say - chaos in construction. I don't have a criminal record, and on your team in our unit, they've all got criminal charges and they're all prosecuted. So I don't know what this is about. I don't understand. You might explain that sometimes, but I don't want to do it with you. This is a serious law that needs to be adopted in order to get something in order, and that is why I call on the MPs to support it, and of course, you are in opposition, you have the right to say whatever you want and that is your right and the citizens will appreciate theirs. Unsolved urban and other problems are most in Belgrade, 80% of the disputed building permits are in Belgrade, and who is in power? Now, that's what you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21245	Thank you. Mr. Markicevic, you wanted to hurt the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21246	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the People, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure from Articles 103 to 108. Madam Chairman, first of all, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure in the part of the way you conduct the session. I think it's inadmissible and I'm going to tell you right now that in the voting day, I'm asking the assembly to come forward with this proposal. So, in these two minutes I want to, if you'll let me explain. It's a little unthinkable for you to warn the minister that it's not, it's the first time I've heard the chairman do not talk about the agenda that 100% spoke about the agenda, and two minutes before that you didn't warn your colleagues from the DS not to talk about the agenda, because the oak is not on the agenda. Madam Chairman, it's especially not oak if it's beech. Therefore, I ask that during the session that you go to be equal and dignified not to invite the MPs of the DS to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure even though they did not want it. I really didn't experience this in this session. I'm sorry, and I'm having a hard time telling you this. I repeat that I request that the Parliament be made known in the day of voting on the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21247	Mr Markicevic, I do not need to explain to you, since you have already made your point. Look at the stenographic notes, you'll see that I also warned Mr. Senić to speak outside the topic. Let me tell you something, when an MP has a replica of someone's exposure, then he can go off the topic a little bit, but when he exposes someone about something, I pray everything, means both Ministers and People's MPs, according to the Rules of Procedure, I need to be equal to everyone, so I don't measure whether he's an MP or a minister, so I'm trying to get everyone to talk about the subject of the agenda. In the day of the vote, you will plead the injury of the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21248	First of all, the MP who spoke before me had to bear in mind that the minister had opened the subject of oak yesterday. When it comes to the Law on Legalization of Unlawful Building, Ministers are wrong not to say that you are not telling the truth. Some of the provisions of this law are disputed, it is not disputed, but you ordinarily ordered the non-application of all other provisions of the law, and on the other hand you are responsible for not letting the new law or amendments to the existing law into the procedure, but now the area is not regulated and 700,000 documents are waiting in various secretariats for legalisation. No one can legalize their facility and that's not why it's Dulic's fault, it's you. On the other hand, we don't know what criminal charges you're talking about. Anyone against anyone can file criminal charges, and I don't know what you're talking about, against whom criminal charges have been filed. So you know there are dozens of criminal charges against you. On the other hand, it wasn't our journalist to watch your, then illegally built facility and fortunately that journalist did well, unlike other journalists who wanted to ask you something. When it comes to a bridge permit, Belgrade's pride, that bridge, I told you last time in the debate has a temporary use of permission. For such facilities you should know, you do this job, and it is normal for them to get a temporary use permit first, and after that, the final use of the permit. Finally, when it comes to the application of the Law on the registration of illegally built objects, therefore, it is not applied even though you announced it at all bells, because you did not create technical conditions and because you do not have the ability to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21249	Thank you. We interrupt the line, we move forward on the agenda. The word has Minister Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21250	The Law on Legalisation is in the assembly procedure. He's been through all the opinions, and I expect him to come to you here for the next meeting. (Janko Veselinović, from the post: Not in the Assembly. I gave it and signed it, and where it is, we don't know. It's over. Another thing, don't tell those stories, don't repeat your stories the hundredth time, and I don't want to get in the way of you. It's true that I gave the used bridge license, but it was given and expired in December of the month. What month is it now?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21251	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21252	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, here we are already having a discussion on the second day of our discussion of the Amendment Bill and the Supplements to the State Prime Minister and Cataster Act. I will say right away, at the beginning of the voting day, the SNS will, of course, support this law, because we think that this is a good law that simply had to appear before the MPs. The last amendments and additions to this law were made in 2010 and these were very small technical changes. Now is simply the time for this law to be brought into line with a whole series of other laws that have been passed, which have come into force, that the Law on the State's Prime Minister and the Cataster be embodied and new investments, new projects implemented by the competent ministries, that one word this law is modernised and in line with our aspirations towards European standards and to bring our legislation into line with EU law. I will also remind the present Members of the public and citizens to amend the law on the national diameter and the cataster are in some way conditional upon the adoption of the Law on special conditions for the registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit. This law is often in public, in the media, misnamed – Law on legalization. It's a long way from the Law of Legalization. It was a brave law that had to be passed in order to get 1,300,000 buildings built across Serbia by our citizens, without a building permit, in order to introduce order, so that these facilities would be recorded, that when we went to negotiations with our EU friends, we would show this information, in order to protect, in one word, the rights acquired, to some extent, the rights of those almost 1,300,000 Serbian citizens, who, for these or those reasons, were not able to obtain a permit to build. The adoption of this law, i.e. amendments and additions, is also necessary because of the Law on Planning and Construction. We will all agree here that the conversion and everything that follows the conversion may not have been the happiest solution, but that law was passed, when it was brought, years ago, it must be respected, it has to be changed in the future, but it definitely all contributed to the Republic Geodetic Institute having more and more work, more and more objects. In this sense, the SNS parliamentary group welcomes the efforts of Mr Krajovic's new director and his entire team, in the sense that the Republic Geodetic Institute and the situation are in order. Of course it is necessary to pass this law and because of a whole series of investments that are currently under way, are we talking about Corridor 10, are we talking about Corridor 11, with the help of our friends, especially from Azerbaijan, with which we know we have excellent co-operation, and the minister himself. Therefore, it is necessary to amend the law and because there are certain requirements of foreign investors, very concrete and very correct, of course, in accordance with European standards, to seduce order in this area. Finally, we are witnessing that a whole series of very favourable investments from the World Bank came right across the EU. We expect that in the future more and more such investments will be now that we have received a date for negotiations with the EU. All this required that we be presented with a proposal of this law, which, in accordance with European standards, will lead to order in the area of national diameter and catastra. In particular, we support the fact that in the future, the electronic approach to data, which is now at a very envious level, will be even better arranged. Citizens, after the adoption of this law, will be able to inform themselves, for example, of the data, of the licenses, of geodetic organisations, of the persons employed in geodetic organisations, via the Internet in the fastest and cheapest way possible. This will lead to a higher level of legal certainty and this will, of course, lead to a more positive view of foreign investors towards Serbia and the climate that is ruling in Serbia. We are particularly in favour of the fact that this law is in line, as it is now proposed, and with some in the meantime laws, such as, say, the Law on Ministries, the Law on Infringements, the Law on Higher Education, especially in the area of higher education. We're glad there's a whole series of provisions that are now defined in a precise way and who's going to be able to get the name of a geodetic, who's going to get the licenses. Licences have more of their own categories and this will also contribute to a higher quality of work. One of the values we see in the law is that it accurately determines what geodetic organisations, how many employees and how many licensed employees can perform the most complex works. I will remind you that Article 17 states that when some geodetic works are designed to produce a major project, then a geodetic organisation that performs such works must have at least five employees, of which two with the highest license. It is also good, it is a European standard and it is something that will improve the quality of geodetic works in Serbia. As for the wages that have been discussed many of these days, on the one hand we also support the courage of the Minister and the courage of the Director of the Republic Geodetic Institute to say openly - where there is a deficiting interest must contain a certain level, of course, in accordance with the law of pay and income. I think most of the colleagues here who are lawyers or who have practically worked with real estate would agree that the huge number of geodesys that we have trained, which Serbia has trained, because of small salaries in state services today work with a private investor, work with foreign investors, or simply went abroad with a bread belly. Today we have a situation where our geodites build, assist and work in Canada, Australia, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates. It's not good and it's not the path SNS stands for. We support you here, that you should give everyone a income that will allow a decent life. When we talk about deficits, we definitely have one example here, that wages have to be arranged one way or another. Of course, a lot of debate caused the way these salaries were increased according to the bill. I'd like to inform the minister here, if he please, that as many as nine amendments have come to this occasion. The amendments were practically submitted by parliamentary groups, and by counterpart Senic, and co-worker Batic, and SNS, even the NS. Here's the LDP MPs. If I've forgotten anyone, I apologize in advance. We have nine amendments. These are not identical amendments, they are very similar and I think they are very correct and very quality written and I think we should consider these amendments, not touching the rule that geodetics, people who work in the field very responsible jobs, especially at a time when investments have started to come true, must have an adequate salary. You should think about paying classes as well. The criteria for these payments should be considered and paid. As I said, nine amendments arrived on the subject of showing that we still have a constructive discussion in the congregation. By the way, about 30 amendments have come in total, nine amendments are on the subject and I think the minister might later consider whether any of these amendments will accept. We have about eight amendments on the matter of determining the amount of compensation and whether or not it needs to be determined by the Director or by some other procedure. Again, virtually all parliamentary groups have submitted an almost identical amendment, so it may be one demonstration that this law has broad support in the National Assembly. Now, we have two provisions that are neural and maybe if those two provisions were discussed, I repeat, amendments are completely identical, maybe we could come up with one of the fastest support for one of these laws on the day of the vote. Finally, we hope that the adoption of this law will also help speed up the work of issuing adequate and enrolment and adequate documents from the Republic Geodesy Institute. Of course, there are most problems in Belgrade for many reasons. Perhaps one reason is that when we read the statistics, we see that there are 19,000,000 plots in Belgrade and over 4,600,000 buildings. We hope that somewhere in the future, co-operation between the ministry and the authorities in the city will be better, especially in some future. In voting day, the SNS will support this law. We will also support it because no specific funds are required for its implementation, which needs money already provided in the budget. So certain savings will be made. A certain acceleration of the work of the Republic Geodetic Institute will be carried out. Service provision will be speeded up to all investors, especially at Corridor 10.11, where we see jobs going, which would be quite in line with Serbia's law and interest, of course, within the planned deadlines. Certain additional rules on quality of work in the area of geodetic services will be introduced, so all of these are the reasons why the SNS will support this law. Of course, we think that by accepting some amendments, and we see that practically only two provisions of this law may be a little problematic and cause a certain discussion, but that by accepting such amendments and that discussion could be eliminated and then perhaps that the law would be passed without a vote against, which would indeed be excellent for one such important law and for one such important area for foreign investors, both for domestic investors and for all people associated with geodesy. I thank you, and I wish you a lot of success.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21253	The word has Minister Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21254	We've considered amendments. Indeed, for these two groups of amendments, we are only looking for a modus that is the most acceptable solution and the best. Perhaps it would be best for the board to take one common position. They're all alike in here somewhere, but it might be best if the board proposes a common amendment that would cover it all. I fully agree that two groups of amendments are welcome to fix the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21255	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21256	I thank you, Chairman, for giving me the opportunity for this replica, although it is not in the right sense of the word replica. So, once again, I'm going to repeat for correctness. Practically all parliamentary groups, if I have forgotten LDP earlier, I apologize, have submitted amendments that are really very similar, but as chairman of the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee, I must tell you that your proposal is actually the best because these are similar amendments, but they are not identical, and perhaps it would be best to sublime all these very correct and very high-quality amendments in one, which the committee would then propose, the committee responsible for these issues. Of course, the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee would then, no doubt, unanimity release such an amendment into a further procedure, as the law itself passed on this committee, unanimously. The same goes for the tax rules. Perhaps that would be best from correctness to all MPs' groups, because, I repeat, everyone has practically given amendments. I think we would all support one such idea, and the SNS would then, with even more satisfaction in the voting day, vote this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21257	Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? (No) We move to search the law according to the order of application for a word in writing by the MPs. The first registered speaker is MP Vladimir Marinkovic. He's not here. The next registered speaker is MP Mirko Chikiriz, who is also not there. The next registered speaker is the People's MP Ljubica Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21258	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, before I start speaking about the law, I would like to congratulate the SPS on their birthday and wish them success and even better co-operation in the future. As regards the amendments, I would like to say immediately that our party has also submitted these two amendments, i.e. three amendments in total, and you will probably hear and accept our amendments, as they relate to these areas of which Mr Cvian spoke. The Republic Geodetic Institute is a special organisation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that performs the professional affairs and tasks of the state administration relating to state diameter, cadastre and registration of the rights to real estates and their restoration and maintenance, as well as a number of other tasks laid down by law. All the laws of the Republic of Serbia apply to the transactions, and in particular the Law on Ministrys, the Law on State Prime Minister and Cataster of 2009, the Law on State Administration, the Law on Civil Servants, the Law on Planning and Construction, the Law on Mortgage, the medium-term programme of work of the RGZ for the period 2009-2014, the strategic objectives of the RGZ 2006-20015 and other regulations. In addition, the Law on salaries of civil servants and deputies, a special collective contract for civil servants and deputies, the Law on the Work of the Republic of Serbia, and a number of international conventions, signed by the Republic of Serbia, apply to the employees of the RGZ. In addition, numerous projects have been implemented in the past period in the RGZ, of which the most significant project is the construction of a building block of immovableity and the registration of rights in Serbia, which these days is ending. The immovableity catalogue is designed as a reliable record of immovableities and rights. The method of realization and inconsistency of the dynamics of works and of the staff structure of the RGZ has led to the need to further engage in the removal of errors resulting from the process of making the KNA. As a parallel process, it is currently an ongoing development of a digital plan, which does not take place under difficult circumstances, but certainly represents one of the most important RGZ business. Both jobs required a significantly higher number of employees than the one in a steady working relationship. The personnel structure of engaged persons is very diverse, although it is normal to expect them to be engaged in these jobs, especially geodetics, and partly human rights professions. Currently, there are 2,400 permanent employees in the RGZ, 179 on a specific and about 650 persons under the labour contract. Out of the constantly employed 1,750 are geodetic professions, of which 1,200 geodettes with a fourth degree geometry, about 250 graduate geodesia engineers and about 500 geodetic engineers. In a group of employees, who are not geodetic professions, there are 250 graduates, about 50 lawyers, more than 100 informers and more than 300 referents with completed secondary economic, gymnasium and so on. What is characteristic of RGZ and especially of cadastrian tasks performed by organisational units, in every municipality and city, there is a cadastre, is that there is no clear classification of jobs. Catastrian jobs are based, above all, on the diameter and data generated after geodetic work. The maintenance of the diameters and bases of the real estate today is largely different from the period when the cadastre had only records of the land cadastre, so state-of-the-art technology and software solutions. Data from the real estate catastra are presented directly on the Internet. Bases are linked to other institutions, so that daily transfers are carried out, as well as updates of data to the catastro. With regard to commitments and RGZ transactions, it is ahead of other state institutions and with regard to the establishment of a modern cataster and is highly assessed on the international scale. It is certainly up to the efficiency and urgency of the catastra, depending on the efficiency of the work of other bodies and institutions, the tax administration, the authorities of the administration, the banking business, the MUP and others. In this respect, it can be said that all employees carry out special expertise tasks, with the application of specific external methods. The obligation of a graduate lawyer to own a judicial exam speaks in itself about their responsibility and the expertise and character of the work they perform. A very important component in the realisation of all these jobs is the financial field and the provision of the necessary financial resources. Since its establishment, RGZ has achieved substantial own revenues through fees and taxis, which have recently grown to the limit to cover the full cost of operation and business. It is almost certain that already in the coming year, the RGZ could meet the goal of self-financing of its own costs. Credits placed by the World Bank as well as those intended for the realisation of other smaller projects are mainly spent on material and equipment or in favour of the involvement of consultants and external associates in the implementation of these projects. Perhaps it should have gone towards keeping most of these funds in the RGZ, which would have strengthened both the personnel structure and technical equipment, above all the immovableity cadastre services, so that they could perform on the market in the upcoming period. In the last ten years, in several cases, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has, if the legislator has made its decisions, led RGZ into a very unfavourable situation, especially with regard to the material position of employees who have been classified by the Law on civil servants as a body of state bureaucracy, although in the pre-2005 period, RGZ has always been in some way the exception of other bodies of similar forms of organisation, such as the Tax Administration, Customs, Police and the like. In 2006, salaries for the vast majority of employees were frozen for more than three years. After the adoption of a special collective contract, civil servants were given the conditions to improve the material position of employees and allow normal functioning of institutions that were very often shaken by the legitimate dissatisfaction of trade unions and employees. In 2009, another reckless decision by the government of the Republic of Serbia led to an attempt to reduce the number of employees in an extremely determined union reaction and 27% of jobs, which also caused a resolute union reaction and prevented the scenario. As a result of this struggle over the past year, a partial job-fulfilment contest has been launched even though there has been almost ten years of no reception of new staff and despite the fact that a large number of colleagues have been working on a set, after ten years this competition has largely been abused by the employer, and on the other hand more than 250 jobs remain unfulfilled. The latest decisions by the government of the Republic of Serbia that questioned the normal functioning of the RGZ also point to systemic problems burdening the institution. The current position of RGZ at first sight may seem satisfactory for all those whose income level does not represent the social category. An analysis of employee earnings, if only the level provided for by the Labour Law and established labour price indicates that more than 70% of employees would have received at the level of semi-skilled labour. The necessary expertise, as well as the increased level of responsibility of almost all employees, requires that this work be properly evaluated and rewarded. In this sense, the initiative, as experience from some neighbouring countries that are heading towards the emphasis of this particular feature, which would be reflected through the introduction of the calling, with prefix geodetic or catastrian, seems to be the most optimal solution. Of course, that would make sense if it were accompanied by an increase in coefficients, i.e. pay grade, up to a level that would cover the current level of earnings increased for special incomes per Article 24. PKU. It should also point out that the budget is intended for payment of the revenue with this increase and that this level of earnings has been paid to all employees since December 2008. Almost since the adoption of the Law on State Servants, the GZ trade union has sought to exempt the Institute from the provisions of Article 32. Law on civil servants. Resistance to this initiative were present in all the political structures that were in power, i.e. there was no need to understand this request. It could even be concluded that the much stronger impact of those structures advocated for the transformation of the RGZ into the form of a public agency and the dispersion of several continents. Today, the impression remains that increasingly large decisions, concerning the fates of the RGZ, have been made outside this institution and within a narrow circle of powerful men, who primarily protect their personal interests. The beginning of the accelerated legalisation of illegally built objects and the position of RGZ at the headquarters of this operation adds to the fact that the office is in a position that has been shaken. The unsuccessful attempts of previous political factors to implement this process in a more significant extent, above all, have been caused by unsatisfactory legislation. What further burdens the RGZ position is a significant reduction in the 2013 budget, as well as an announcement of amendments to certain system laws, which could affect the material incomes of employees. In fact, by rebalance of the budget for this and the 2013 draft budget, the GNZ is reduced funds of 900 million dinars, one-fifth of the funds identified by the 2012 budget. In addition, own revenues have been abolished, as a source of funding certain items in the RGZ programme, which were adopted by the 2010 government of the Republic of Serbia. The RGZ financial balance is relatively favourable, as revenues from last year have been significantly increased. In order to address the longstanding problem and to enable the smooth functioning of the RGZ as a credible and efficient state institution, the amendment and addition of the Law on State Border and Cataster has been made, which would regulate the calling of employees and ensure the dignity of the work of civil servants. It would allow smooth work of private geodetic practice, facilitate the process of facilitating the case and define charges for RGZ services. Starting with the simple fact that RGZ employees are making exceptional revenues in the Republic of Serbia's budget and the arguments put forward are gaining power. I looked more at the personnel, because the personnel depended on both the ministry's work and the corresponding services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21259	The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21260	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I welcome the representatives of the RGZ, of course, that this Article 1 is a key member and this article was most discussed during the discussion here on the second day of this bill. I would just like to point out one fact, Mr. Minister, that this is a solution from Article 1. The bill is another exception and this third exception since January of this year compared to the Law on Salary in State Authorities and Public Services. The first exception was the one from January of this year, where employees of the Social Insurance Fund are excluded. Last month, June, talks discussed the exemption of employees from higher education institutions from the law on salaries in state authorities. Here, now we're talking about this third exception, about geodetic pay. Of course we welcome the legalization, the formalization of a state of action. It is good that when things are introduced into the system, they are raised to one legal level, instead of the workers, i.e. representatives, specifically of the RGZ every month, in order to somehow level their wages. We have some kind of negative connotation. You really need to introduce a line, even around those salaries. We don't have a problem with that formalization. For example, I would now suggest to the assembly majority that, in this respect, they also act on the Rules of Procedure, so that the provisions of Rule 128, which refer to these parliamentary cards, should then be amended, since, for a year now, MPs of the ruling majority have been unable to understand what it says in that article 128. It would be good if things came down to that level. If you can't teach the MPs, it would be good to change the Rules of Procedure. We don't have a problem with coefficients and salary increases.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21261	Mrs. Judith, don't be insulting to the MPs. Whether someone can learn or not, it's an individual thing, but don't give those grades.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21262	Mr. Chairman, the facts speak, nothing else. My argument is that today after all year, it still cannot be done in accordance with Article 128. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21263	That's another question. Listen to me. I'll make it up to you. I understand your need to say that, but I'm only talking about the way. Don't qualify if anyone can or can't. Don't insult people. That's all I'm talking about. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21264	Thank you. About these geodetic wages and the increase in those coefficients, we really don't have any problem supporting it. What's more, we're in favour of rewarding civil servants for their real work and understanding the importance of the RGZ. However, we have a problem with discrimination that runs through this member in relation to other professions that are not geodetic. In fact, the RGZ is a very complex state service which, in addition to performing professional tasks, also performs the tasks of the state administration, legal affairs. It's a very complicated system that works with literally two different halves. You will allow those professional jobs concerning geodesys, which are related to geomagneticism, aerodynamics, magnetic and electromagnetic fields, to hardly have touch points with a catastrophe of immobility, i.e. those legal affairs concerning the enrolment of property rights and the like. If it's such a serious state service, then it's also seriously accessing everything about work at the RGZ. So we don't understand why there was a change in that original draft that predicted that these coefficients were applied to the profits of all civil servants, without singleing out any profession in particular. I'd like to point out that, for example, in Zrenjanin, you have 10% workers, civil servants, who are legal professions or other professions, but they're not geodetic professions. They carry 50%, if not more of the work being done in the local service of the RGZ. If the high school kids have so far had that 11,000 dinar supplement on their basic salary, and those with a high level of professional training of 5,000, and all regardless of what professions, I don't understand why you've defined yourself for this variant to single out that geodetic profession? That is a problem if you really think about improving the work of the Republic Geodetic Institute. In the light of the law, you really state some arguments that I support. Indicating and strengthening efficiency, citing and strengthening legality, and referring to the prevention of any potential for corruption, to disrupt workers and the like. It's okay. You understand the size of the business, which has been increased in the meantime. All these responsibilities, all these jobs, all these expectations that you have in the meantime charged to the Republic Geodetic Institute, are hardly able to respond positively to all of this, if you are making this kind of mistake, discrimination of employees, workers, civil servants in the RGZ. We really can't support that. If there is any understanding for the LDP amendment regarding this Article 1, we will certainly consider supporting this bill. One more thing, Mr. Minister. We can say anything about this previous government. Indeed, there are a million grudges and criticisms, but we cannot leave out one fact that in 2009, a law on temporary wage cuts, i.e. earnings, net remuneration and other incomes in the state administration and the public sector, and in 2009, which was a courageous act at the time for these conditions. Somehow, such a kind of courage is lacking for this government and this authority that advocates savings, for cost reduction, which has this ambition to rebalance the budget as the only rebalance during 2013. Simply, you do not have the political will to go public and say – there will be hardly any pay increases. Moreover, wages not to be frozen, wages will fall for that very reason because we have double-digit inflation, we have dinar depression, because we have a serious economic crisis in the country. So the courage is somehow lacking in this government, and I think that there is also a lack of serious support for the Republic Geodetic Service for all the jobs that this RGZ has to do, for this very reason to strengthen both economically and in terms of one position of the rule of law which and how it respects the right of ownership and private property.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21265	Time spent is 10 minutes, and I'll take one minute away from you, so it'll be nine minutes taken away from your time. The People's Messenger Paul Markov has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21266	Dear Ministers, the chairman, fellow MPs, came to the Assembly last month to discuss the decision of the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on State Prime Minister and Katastre, which was put on today's agenda as an emergency procedure. The urgency of the law is explained by the amendments to the Law on the Budgetary System and the consequences of the amendments to that law, which are directly related to the Law on State Crossing and its implementation through the same law and sublegal acts. Taking into account this reason as the entry into force of the Law on Special Conditions for the registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit, which has significantly increased the size of work in the Republic of Geodetic Office and thus set shorter deadlines for the conduct of the parties, resulting in problems of evaluation and deployment of staff in the Office, and what this law solves, then the urgency of this law is justified and I believe that we should support it in such a procedure. What goes in line with this law is that the law itself contains 31 members and removes the shortcomings observed in the current procedure of the application of the Law on State Prime Minister and Cataster, which relate to the adequate regulation of the status of employees in the Republic Geodesy, to the precision of the provisions on the implementation of geodetic works, the work of geodetic organisations and the resolution of the conflict of certain sublegal provisions, as well as the amendments to the provisions governing the procedure of maintenance of the immovableity catastray and mass assessment of the value of immovableity. Article 1 of this Act stipulates the names and salaries of civil servants in the Republic Geodetic Institute of Geodetic Professionals in executive jobs. The regulation of the call and salary in the Law on State Prime Minister and Catastro was necessary, since the Law on State officials who were arranged to call civil servants and make progress in all state bodies is not adequate to the employees of the geodetic profession in the Republic Geodetic Office, because of the nature and importance of the work they perform. Namely, the Republic Geodetic Institute of Geodetic Professionals perform field, professional, geodetic and catastrian tasks on geodetic measurement, collection and registration of data that are of general interest to the Republic of Serbia. These jobs are limited by deadlines, investment investment needs and economic development of the country, which cannot be without regulated and registered data on immovable property and ownership of them, which was used by the World Bank's loan in connection with the Republic of Serbia. Also, it should not be forgotten that employees of the Republic Geodetic Institute are engaged in all major infrastructure projects in the Republic of Serbia. In addition to the above, the Law on special conditions for the registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit provides for the registration of objects built without permission and the right of ownership on them. In order to implement this law, employees of the Republic Geodetic Institute will especially engage in accordance with the short legal deadline, especially if millions and 300,000 buildings in the Republic of Serbia are in sight. Also, the Law on Planning and Construction has prescribed a conversion of the right to use in the right of property immovableity, registration upon request and upon registration under official duty, leading to a multiple number of cases being resolved. These activities are performed only by employees of the Republic Geodetic Office and are different from those performed by employees of other state bodies. Accordingly, the calls, promotions and additional coefficients for the salaries of the geodetic professions are particularly arranged, thus ensuring human stability and a positive motivation for an increased volume of work that does not exist now, because the existing wage system does not interfere with the workload. A salary addition eliminates corruption space, all of which is one of the conditions for Serbia's entry into the EU. However, what is a criticism of this law, which comes from the expert public, is that the law did not go through the expert debate, at least that's what they say, which is based only on the opinion of the Republic Geodetic Institute and which is regulated by law in relation to the whole market, and not just the status of geodetic experts in the Republic Geodetic Institute. Criticism is in the sense of identifying specialist studies with master studies, i.e. several schools are equated with universities. Taking into account the University of Belgrade, in particular the Faculty of Civil Engineering, the Department of Geodesy and Geoinformatics has analysed the same and considers that there are serious reasons that part of the proposal relating to conditions for obtaining the first and second order of amendments. In their opinion, the importance of master and specialist academic studies at the Belgrade Faculty of Civil Engineering is completely ignored. I will remind you that studies in higher education are divided into vocational and academic. Professional studies give a higher accent to practical content and focus on performing certain geodetic activities. They may be basic, specialist and master studies, but we've only developed these first two. Studies at the geodesy and geoinformatics department are realized through the following levels. They're basic, master and doctoral. These levels vary by the volume of materials, type and content of teaching subjects and forms, thus continuing to last for three years. This approach creates a fundamental difference between vocational and academic studies. Ignoring this, Article 7 amended Article 17 and the legal provisions relating to the conditions for the implementation of geodetic works, in accordance with the type of geodetic works. It is also prescribed that a geodetic organisation that does not have an employee with a geodetic licence will be able to perform geodetic works on the maintenance of the immovable cadastra, if it has at least two geodetic profession employees with at least a secondary geodetic school, a state-owned expert on this education and work experience of at least three years. In this way, this law allowed me to survive on the market for a large number of geodetic organisations, which were forced to stop working and lay off laws because of stricter conditions for the performance of geodetic works. So far, as an employee of geodetic organizations, these persons have done quality work in maintaining the immovableity catastra and are believed to have allowed them to do these jobs and to continue. In addition, these individuals would also be at risk of a basic existence by denying the performance of their jobs. I will also mention Article 21, which has been prescribed inspection supervision of the issue of cartographic publications and checks carried out by the inspector. Such a need for supervision has been identified, or there has been an alarming number of cartographic publications that do not have the consent of the institutions, which is why they question their selection of data, the quality and accuracy of what they represent, despite the provisions of Article 156. - that publications can be published and placed on the market according to the previously obtained consent of the Institute. Finally, all these reasons contribute to the fact that these amendments and additions to the Law on State Time and Catastro are being improved and the effectiveness of existing laws, as well as the fact that in the future it is necessary to include as widely as possible the professional public, because the consequences of these laws can be very serious. In any case, our parliamentary group, as I said at the outset, believes that it is entirely justified to pass the said law urgently. In voting day, we'll go public and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21267	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21268	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So every time we get changes and supplement some law, it means that in his practice, or application, problems and shortcomings have been observed. So this is the case today with changes and additions he's been laws of state and catastro. After the adoption of a bad lex specialis law of February this year, the law is otherwise called the Law on Special Conditions for the registration of property on buildings built without a building permit, but in the people's short term it is called "catastrian legalisation", MPs of the DSS also pointed out that the Republic Geodetic Institute, along with existing legislation, would not be able to implement the provisions and such catastrian legalisations within the prescribed deadlines. Indeed, many amendments and additions concern the status and position of employees, the alignment with the Higher Education Act, the suspension of the obligation of a licence for individual professions in geodetic agencies. What's changed is what's most discreet, which has been a lot of words, so I don't want to go into all the details, is your proposal to change the way the salary is accounted for, or to predict a salary supplement. I'm going to read from an explanation just one sentence, which is why there's a salary supplement being introduced, because I don't think we've ever received such a sentence in an explanation, and I think it's a bit unusual, not to say impertinent. I quote, therefore, a statement from the reasoning, you say – adding to the salary eliminates the area for corruption, which is very important, given that this is also one of the conditions for Serbia's entry into the EU. So, I read a sentence from your explanation. What exactly are you telling us? Yes, if the Assembly doesn't adopt these amendments and supplement laws, that employees will receive bribes if they don't receive that addendum, or, I don't want to be malignancies, will they continue to receive bribes? Anyway, this is a sentence that is offensive to all those people in this area who have never been, and they probably have no intention of being corrupt. We'll talk about that and all the other members when there's a debate in particular. The Democratic Party of Serbia has submitted about 20 amendments. As far as nothing has changed when the registration of objects in Katastar since the law was passed to this day, perhaps your statements from the interview, ministers, which you gave in early July for a daily newspaper, and then all of the newspapers, where you say, I'll just read a few sentences, quote you -- I can no longer explain to the people that the EU will not explain to Serbia with a million and 300 thousand unlisted objects. Enter your facilities and exercise your right this year and next. The second sentence of the interview – what is not listed in Katastar immovableity for Europe does not exist. Guys, don't play with your property. Somewhere at the end of the interview, you say - officials of municipal authorities in charge of legalization and Katastar, who usually don't like to work very much, heard that Dulic's law fell in the Constitutional Court, so they reject citizens for enrolment of objects in Katastar with an explanation – we don't know, we'll see, come by later. You add - if you are not entered and the issue of ownership is not disputed or not in a court dispute, come to me personally and report who did not enlist you. This is what you said 15 days ago where you characterized people who work in that area as people who don't like to work very much and that those who don't want to work, that citizens report them to you. I ask the question - what are our inspections doing in this area, how do they control the work of officials? In many places you threaten the EU, or you scare the EU, which is from the corner of the DSS, completely and justly because they take away property and land in Cosmet, with the help of the government that you are sitting in, and now you are a minister, who knows what else is waiting for us and what kind of kidnapping awaits us in the way of these European integrations. What do the Katastrian books say on KIM, whose country is it? The books say that Serbian state, social and private assets and SPC assets comprise 60% of the total property in Cosmet, and these are data from Catastra land for a total of 1300 catastrian municipalities, as many as there are in Cosmet. Most of the documentation, or original, was taken to towns in Serbia in 1999. I repeat this sentence to you, Mr. Minister, and to Mr. GRZ with us, Serbia has evidence of property ownership in KIM. However, given that you fully apply all the unconstitutional regulations adopted by the previous government, which stemmed from the 2011 technical negotiations with Pristina, the DSS is very concerned about both the data from these cadastrian books and Serbian property. By the way, the name of this Regulation is the Regulation on the specific processing of data contained in Catastro Land for AP KiM. Among other things, the regulation provides for data processing operations to be carried out by the RGZ and the processing is attended by both EU and UN representatives. Furthermore, data from Katastra land are used to implement a team's dialogue agreement with Pristina, with EU and UN authorities. By agreeing to everything you are asked of, that is, everything the EU requires, that is, in Taca and Pristina's parentheses, we are confident that you will cause enormous damage to the Serbian property that is currently usurped but still according to the holy book, or cadastrian books, Serbian. The Democratic Party of Serbia has launched a procedure for reviewing constitutionality and this regulation, as well as others, and we appeal to people sitting in the Constitutional Court and calling themselves judges of the Constitutional Court to start doing their job and to solve our complaints. One more question, since there's a gentleman from the Geodesy Institute. I found Tanjug's 4th news. 06, as of a month ago, when the Regional Conference on Cataster and Infrastructure in Belgrade was held, Mr Krajovic said that the RGZ should scan the documentation and organise a concesive handover. Of what? Please answer my questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21269	The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21270	Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished associates, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, I may repeat myself in my discussion with my colleagues from the SNS on some of the issues that we have reached a consensus on, but it is not an offense, primarily because of our citizens, on the one hand, and so on by the people of the profession. In my desire to make a maximum contribution to the adoption of quality law, I have made sure that through conversations and consultations with professional people, but also with people who come into contact with this matter in everyday business, reading that both the basic law and the current amendments and additions to the bill, I just want to point to some moments that may not be seen from another perspective, which could affect the quality of the law itself and its implementation. Of course, all in order to make the practical application of this law more effective, at which point I do not question expertise or effort. In the light of the reasons and the reasons for the adoption of the law, it is stated that the first reason is to adequately regulate the status of employees in the RGZ. Also, in an explanation of individual solutions, it is even more explicit that the regulation of the call and salary in the Law on State Prime Ministers and Cataster was necessary since the Law on civil servants who were arranged to call civil servants and promote them in all state bodies is not adequate to the employees of the geodetic profession because of the nature of the work and the importance of the work they carry out. Such a formulation implies that the status of employees in the RGZ is not adequately regulated and that the Law on civil servants does not have adequate solutions for significant tasks of general interest for the Republic of Serbia, that the existing system of wages is insufficiently disrupting workers at work and that the existing system does not eliminate the space for corruption. It seems to me that such assessments do not stand, and it seems to me that this could lead to the conclusion that this bill is contrary to the second law, especially the Civil Service Act, and perhaps it should be removed from this law by such an assessment, and an increased amount of business expected in the Bureau in the coming period by hiring new workers. Article 4 The draft law on changes and additions leaves room perhaps to interpret that a geodetic organisation can obtain a licence even though it has employees without a geodetic license. What is the point of issuing licensing licences if it is said in paragraph 4 that "a user of budgetary resources and a public undertaking can be granted a licence to work for geodetic works that can only be done for their own purposes"? Perhaps you should stay on the earlier solution that requires that the geodetic organisation has licensed workers and that all geodetic jobs, whether for their own or other needs, perform professional and licensed persons and organisations. The 2009 and 2010 State Prime Minister and Catastro Act, as well as this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements, regulates the way in which the licenses are issued to the geodesic profession. The 2009 Planning and Construction Act regulates the work of the Engineering Chamber of Serbia, which has the procedure and the licensing of engineers of construction, engineering, architectural, electrical and other technical professions, including the licenses of geodetic professions, 372 – responsible geodetic project designer, 471 – responsible geodetic contractor, 771 – responsible performer with specialist expert studies of geodetic works on high-building and low-building facilities, 871 – responsible geodetic works performer at high-building and low-building facilities. In our legal system right now, we have two laws that regulate the licensing of geodetic engineers. The proposed amendment of the law describes in more detail the licensing procedure of the geodetic profession, but I am afraid that such a solution increases the costs of engineers who should be licensed under the Law on Planning and Construction and License under this law and, of course, increases the administration involved in the issue of licences. It might be better if double licences were lifted and the State Prime Minister's and Catastro Law regulated the licensing of organisations and the licensing of non-academic persons, while issuing licences to engineers, as well as all other professions, would be resolved by the Engineering Chamber of Serbia. The draft law amending and supplementing Article 24 proposes amendments to the basic law by defining which a person can carry out inspection supervision of the work of a geodetic organisation. I suggest that, in addition to proper education, professional examination, work experience, the inspector also has an appropriate geodetic profession license. This condition may need to be entered into the position of 1st and 2nd of this article, as it does not make sense to me that an unlicensed inspector controls the work of a licensed organisation and a licensed person doing geodetic work. The Serbian Progressive Party in voting day will support these changes and additions to the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21271	The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21272	In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Time and Catastro. As most of my colleagues pointed out, this is a very important law regarding the arrangements and organizations of society and state itself. With this bill, a series of questions are being defined closer. First of all, a number of issues of employees in the Republic Institute and the alignment of this area is done, very complex, with European standards and standards. So that I don't owe, since I know that Mr. Minister has too much to do, and he has a nice obligation in my hometown, I'm going to try to make sure that everything that they said and pointed out already my colleagues positively about this law, I'm not repeating it, but in a few lines I'm going to say something about him. The draft law sets out jobs in the Office by title, and depending on the necessary skills, abilities and working conditions, as well as the complexity and responsibilities of jobs. Also, the draft law lays down additional coefficients for state officials of the geodetic profession in the Office when calculating salaries. The range for this additional coefficient ranged from 3 to 50% of the coefficient established in accordance with the Civil Service Act, i.e. the law establishing salaries for civil servants. The bill defines a solution to this by the Director. But, as the minister himself pointed out, and we also noticed from the discussion of previous debates, we don't think that's the right solution. This can be defined either by a special collective contract or by the systematisation and organisation itself. The Director shall have the right and authority to punish, first of all, the untimely and unqualityly performed works in the application of certain sequencings. This draft law lays down a way of issuing work licenses, obtaining a certain level of licence as well as the conditions for doing so. In particular, licensing for legal persons, budgetary users and public undertakings is defined, and they can only be performed for their own purposes. The conditions have been defined and defined in a certain number of qualified geodetic profession employees with a certain level of licence in geodetic organisations, in order to perform works of a certain level or to produce certain technical documentation. Also, this bill is closer to defining the duties and responsibilities of those who perform geodetic works. This draft law regulates the obligation of the register management office, issued licences for the work of geodetic organisations, as well as the licenses of employees in them, as well as the withdrawal of licences and bans on the execution of geodetic works. The obligation of the Bureau is to make the register public and available via the Internet. Also, the proposal for a law closer defines the process of keeping, seeing and issuing data, as well as fees for providing services to the Institute. In addition to the amount of tax that the Institute determines by sublegal acts, the draft law defines who is and in which cases the fee is exempt. Also, here I feel that taxes should be brought by another organ. I see that PUPS colleagues have also made a proposal for an amendment to be a Government, some of their sublaws. What is particularly to point out is that the draft law defines the inspection supervision of the legal entity involved in the issue of cartographic publications and is closer to determining what this supervision implies, which are the powers of the same, as well as who can carry out inspection tasks. The draft law also stipulates the institution to supplement, under official duty, a solution to the work of a geodetic organisation that meets the conditions for the implementation of geodetic works, as well as the adoption of a cancellation decision, for geodetic organisations that have failed to comply with business, in accordance with the State Prime Minister and Cataster Act, and to order that it be registered within three months in accordance with the prescribed conditions. In voting day, the SNS will support this bill and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21273	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Radmil Gerov, seven minutes at his disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21274	I would like to thank the Vice-President, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Directors of the RGZ, the Assistant Directors, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the proposed amendments to the Law on State Prime Minister and Cataster will not, Minister, affect the effectiveness of the work of the RGZ, for the reason that we do not have a member in this proposal to cut deadlines by which the RGZ should respond to a solution or conclusion of a particular party. The main objective of these amendments to the law is for the government to solve the problem of illegally receiving personal incomes from workers who have worked so far and are working in the RGZ today and that's good. It's stupid to force a present director and head of the station to sign up for overtime, to go to the field, so that the workers of the RGZ have decent salaries. That's a good solution. It's not an increase in salary, it's just a alignment of existing salaries without overtime. Practically, RGZ workers, after voting this law, will receive the same salary they received by yesterday. It is bad that the law stipulates that this applies only to the workers of the geodetic profession. You yourself, Minister, said that individual lawyers go to another municipality once a week, where the RGZ doesn't have them, where they have a large number of cases, and that's why we think that this law should be applied to all those other workers whose jobs are tied to the real estate cadastre. We hope that, as Government, you will have a servant and accept this amendment to the LDP. The second thing you want to change with this law is to change the term "refund" in the term "tax." I really don't see what it's like to be in the way of a fee being offered by the GZ. Who else is going to give you a tax proposal? It is clear that the RGZ will not be able to prescribe fees too high, for reasons that, following amendments to the Budgetary System Act, they must deliver their proposal to the Ministry of Finance for consent by 31 March. If the director and his associates gave too many taxes, I expect the Ministry of Finance would not adopt such a proposal. Director, I'm going to take the opportunity, since you're here, to tell you that I believe that to this day, the fees you've applied are very high for the citizens. On the one hand, this law frees all those budget users from paying taxis, and on the other hand, so far the fees have been very high for the citizens, so when you convert, for example. land from the property properties of users, the tax was about 9,000 dinars. I think, for the conditions in which citizens live today, that tax is very high. It is true, Minister, that the RGZ has the most problems due to the poor Law on Planning and Construction, due to many court proceedings pending and due to 30,000 cases pending in your ministry under a second-degree appeal. I'll only tell you one example. Your department in Zaječar doesn't handle legalization cases in a second-degree procedure for six years. I think six years is a good enough time. I think it's enough time and six months for a second-degree body to solve some cases, but six years is, you'll agree, a little bit, so a citizen like that can neither now sign up for property with a cadastre, nor could he in any previous time, because these are the items from 2007, to re-apply for legalisation. It seems, Minister, that every government, this and the previous and that before it, when it is working to amend the Law on Planning and Construction, as if it is trying – in which way it tends to get a building permit, now location or use permission. This is where the Constitutional Court's verdicts were spoken and you know it very well, and we talked about it, and when the Law on the registration of property rights was passed on buildings built without a building permit, that there was a Constitutional Court ruling, you said that, which has been authorized by certain members of the law regarding legalization, as unconstitutional. Mr. Minister, your obligation was, not to you personally but to your ministry, to propose amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction by the beginning of June to this House. Even during a previous period, you announced a brand-new Law on Legalization. Currently, municipal and city administration workers cannot bear responsibility because they cannot legalise under unconstitutional provisions. We feel that it is necessary that such a law enters the congregation procedure as soon as possible. You spoke of it, Minister, in a debate in principle, that there was a lot of corruption in the RGZ. You didn't say anything about what corruption it was. I personally support this member who says that budget users can get a license to perform geodetic work for their needs. In this way, budget users would not pay private geodetic organisations a huge fee, i.e. compensation for the works done, and you will agree, Minister, that it is several hundred, several thousand and several tens of thousands of euros, which are taken by private geodetic organisations from local self-government, specifically their construction directorates, for any project needed to approve local permits. While you're here, I have one more question to ask you about the Law on Planning and Construction, which you did not deliver to us, which refers to retroactive construction, i.e. location permits. I don't suppose you know anything about that. How is it possible, Minister, that the municipal administration in Bora retroactively, in 2012, issue a license for the reconstruction and addition of the club RTB Bor, where the works were carried out in 2011 without any documentation? Isn't that a felony by law? (President: Time.) I'm done. There is no member of the law that allows new works to be issued in such a way.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21275	The word has Minister Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21276	As for the last question you asked, I agree with you that someone has granted permission to launch a large investment without one piece of paper. I asked for criminal charges and were given, but we can't throw a 300m-euro investment out the window now. We've got to get her into a regular stream somehow. We made one team at the state level that puts it in order and prepares certain documentation. It was impossible to get permission, because Bor is not the owner of the property he was supposed to get his license on, but rather the Republic of Serbia. When it was over, it turned out that the loan had been raised by whoever had nothing, no land, nothing. It's not my fault, someone did it before me. Of course, criminal charges against it have been made. 300m euros have been spent illegally, and that stands. Please, as for these items that you say stand for six years, there are objects, that I don't tell you where they were all standing, where we found them all, etc., bring copies within seven days and you'll get a solution. So, in seven days, I'm sure you'll get a solution. I note, all citizens who have items that may have been lost or have disappeared because they have been transferred for years to bring them personally to the ministry or delivery and will be resolved as soon as possible. So, I agree with some of your remarks and it says that we're going to put it in order, but we need to get this job done. You're here as an MP and we're all here to do this job together and there's no building in the future without a building permit. The law on legalization is in the process, I signed it and he entered the procedure. I think he'll come to parliament at the next session. The law on planning and construction is completely over. The expert group was asked to review the conversion once more and a group from the law school was formed, which will give the final version and consider all of this and introduce some of the best solutions that will suit Serbia. It's the only issue in that law, and everything else is done, written and ready to come into congregation procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21277	The word is Radmil Gerov, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21278	Mr. Minister, I didn't talk about the investment of the solvent and the construction of the sulphuric acid factory, which is also done without a building permit and for which RTB Bor has guarantees from this Canadian bank security assembly, which is also done without a building permit. We've come here to have two government ministers annul the building inspector's solution. You're absolutely right that it's inadmissible. I was talking about the RTB Bor club, the bar, the banquet hall, in which RTB Bor invested in 2011 173,000,000 dinars for reconstruction and addition of banquet halls and accommodation rooms, without permission. Then those poor people, the workers of the municipal administration, forced them to issue a permit for a newly built facility in 2012. You said it was a crime, but it's a shame that the employees of the service get hurt, neither guilty nor indemnity, because of the arrogant behaviour of RTB Director General Blago Spaskovski. As for these items, of course, I can't give you copies of the items, but I can in cooperation with the Municipality's administration in Negotin to tell you who the items are and from which they are from, and it's certain that there are cases six years old.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21279	Thank you. The word came from Judita Popovic. On what grounds? (Judita Popovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21280	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 107, 27 and 128. Mr. Chairman, you have cards in your benches, but not MPs. It is an insult to the dignity of the congregation. It is the haughtiness of the ruling coalition and the largest party in power. You, as chairman, are obliged to take care of the dignity of this House and to make sure that you apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. If you disagree with individual members of the Rules of Procedure, you may choose to initiate changes, but as long as there is a Rules of Procedure, all provisions of the current Rules of Procedure must be respected. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, this is not an insult, this is not the haughtiness of the opposition MP, this is the haughtiness of the ruling coalition and of you who allow them to treat the Rules of Procedure in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21281	Mrs. Judith, you're right about that, but not about my behavior or anyone. No one's behaving arrogantly around here. I ask the professional service to draw from MPs' cards that are not present. The word is by MP Dusan Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21282	I thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21283	Mr. Obradic, please, let's make a deal, you weren't here when you were in the order, so I'll give you my word at the end. I'm not gonna deny you that right, but at the moment you were supposed to speak, you weren't...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21284	That was a few minutes ago, since I explained the reason to the secretary. I don't think it's the subject of an argument on the tide.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21285	You'll get the word, I won't deny you that right, but now you can't have an MP jump in any way, because there's order, and that's how I break the Rules of Procedure. I'll give you the right to speak after the last speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21286	It's even better for me at the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21287	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukoičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21288	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, is ahead of us with the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Prime Minister and Cataster, which is certainly a step forward, above all, towards the catastrian arrangement of the Republic of Serbia, and thus towards approaching EU standards. This law regulates above all the executive jobs of the geodetic profession, and it begins with the reference of the geodetic profession, through associates and counselors. Also, the bill regulates the salaries of employees of the Institute of Immobilisation, since the employees of geodetic professions are exposed to field work. Their working hours certainly do not last eight hours, especially in hill-mounted areas. Certainly, this bill is headed towards strengthening human resources, as there may be a sufficient number of college-educated geodetic professions in Belgrade, but in the southwestern part of Serbia and in the municipality from which I come, which is the municipality of Priboj, the people with a degree in geodetic profession are very few, and there is also a very small number of people with middle education of the geodetic profession. I also agree with the fact that adequate wage regulation and how motivation for their work would be, because all persons, apart from fulfilling their work duties and obligations, would definitely go to work for both wages and wages is a motivation for the successful work of each employee. I also fully agree with my colleagues' proposal from the SNS, which was agreed by the minister, that this wage adjustment should also be added to other staff in the office, and not just to employed geodetic professions. The bill has also expanded the number of people who can get a license for their work, and has also shortened the number of years of work experience needed to obtain a licence if there is a previous working experience in the geodetic profession with lower education. Thus, for obtaining a first-class licence, among other things, concerning university education and academic master of education, the employee has five years of working experience in the geodetic administration in geodetic affairs, and of which at least two years in the education for which the first-class licence is obtained. This law also provides for the possibility that geodetic organisations, which do not have employees of geodetic experts with a licence, but have employed geodetics with medium professional training and a state exam and at least three years of work experience in the profession, can carry out tasks of cadastrian maintenance of water immobilisation, as well as to carry out the tasks of catastrian markings in line with the urban plan. Also, this bill proposes inspection supervision, which is the inspection supervision of geodetic experts, when it comes to geodetic organisations, seven years of work experience, passed a state exam and agreed with a colleague from the SNS, so that this person performing inspection should also have a licence. As regards inspection supervision of organisations carrying out the issue and placing on the market of cartographic publications, this law provides that, apart from geodetic experts with work experience, as well as with the previous inspector, of the seven years of work experience, the state examination, of course, the inspector may also be an expert in the geographical profession. Of course, as far as inspection supervision is concerned, infringements are also provided for those organisations that issue cartographic publications without prior consent from the Institute and those criminal penalties are in the amount of legal persons from 100,000 to 500,000 dinars, and for the responsible person in the legal face from 25,000 to 50,000 dinars. This bill also provides for tax exemption, allowing direct insight into the Bureau of Persons who need to see that information, and also the Institute on its website publishes all that information, so that the wider circle of citizens is available and can be known. As regards the part relating to the exemption from payment of the tax, it is envisaged that persons are exempt from paying a fee for enrollment in the catalogue of the property's immovable property, if they are persons who have a solution to the inheritance, if they are persons to whom the property was recovered previously. What is very important, this law stipulates that a highly sensitive and vulnerable category of citizens is exempt from paying fees on the issue of a copy of an immobility cadastre, and in order to exercise rights in the field of social security, social protection, martial law, the exercise of rights under the rules on financial support for the family with children and the exercise of the rights of civil invalid wars. I know from direct experience that some institutions, i.e. some geodetic organisations, have charged taxes to persons whose copy of the straggler of immovableity was necessary for the exercise of rights in the field of social protection and, in this way, arranged and precise in this law, I consider progress. Of course, it is very important for the Republic of Serbia, both in terms of new investment investments and in terms of the economic development of the Republic of Serbia. For that reason, the SNS in voting day will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21289	Thank you very much. Just one announcement, an expert associate is the cards that were inserted into the system of MPs that were not currently brought here in the hall, so it doesn't seem like someone stole the cards or was playing. Here are the cards. So whoever comes in can come get it. The next on the speaker list is Miroslav Petkovic, DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21290	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Serbia has a huge problem with the record of immovableity and rights to these properties. Unfortunately, our state has shown that it is unable to regulate the situation in space and therefore today we have urban chaos throughout Serbia. As far as this area is concerned, it is best to show that in each government, the competent ministry has been given a new name and some new powers. This ministry was once the Ministry of Urbanism, Construction and Municipal and Residential Affairs, then the Ministry of Urbanism and Building, and then the Ministry of Capital Investments, and then the Infrastructure, and then for the protection of the environment and spatial planning, so we don't really know what the Ministry's name is anymore and what it's doing, and you, as the minister who practically got a third of the authority in this facility, know what problems you're facing. Your predecessor, Mr Oliver Dulic, claimed in this room, when we adopted the Law on State Prime Minister and Cataster, that this law would solve all problems in Serbia, that it would allow for a more transparent and precise record of objects that were entered into the immobility cadastre. Has that goal been achieved? Based on the discussion we had today and yesterday, based on everything that's going on on the ground, I'm sure this Dulic law has not achieved the goals set. Do you know who's responsible because for many years, it hasn't been done enough to solve the situation in space? Who should finally take responsibility? Is this the current minister in the government, are these some designers, are they contractors, are they people from the catastra, are they raspberries? There's no way of knowing the answer to that question. Mr. Ilic, in a few days, as announced, follows this famous reconstruction, and I would really like to, since we are likely to change in this assembly the Ministry Act, so that your ministry is united, means that it is not divided into three parts and that we finally know who is doing what in this country and that it is responsible for that job. Because it's embarrassing that Mr. Bacevic, part of Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, is involved in one of the activities. Let's finally do it the right way, if you made a mistake a year ago, when you proposed a law on ministries then, that is, when we passed that law on a proposal from the prime minister, now might be a chance to make it right. Let's pass a law on state-owned diameter and cataster, which will finally complete the catastra reform and unify the country's real estate records. I think it's high time in the 21st century to make at least a basic record of immovableities, which will combine the records of physical and legal states. The Democratic Party of Serbia is ready to help. We have submitted a series of amendments and we hope that they will be adopted. We spoke here today and yesterday, and of course, four years ago, when many questions were raised, that the fundamental problem in Serbia was, in fact, legalisation. We have suggested that this issue be resolved by a special law and I have heard today that something is done. We didn't get in the congregation procedure of the bill's proposal, we didn't even see his draft, we didn't even get a chance to get acquainted with those details, so I'd like to get the material in time so we could get ready in an adequate way. Based on the adoption of such a law, it is the only way to repair a space that has already been marred by numerous violations of the law in previous years. You, Mr. Minister, as an opposition MP, and in 2009, when we talked about these problems, talked about the failed legalisation that was attempted by then by Minister Šumarac, you said that when you were in the government, Minister Dinkic rejected the social housing as the last rag and said that he had his own construction system. You asked if there was any other country in the world where the infrastructure advice would be made that the head of state would sit. You were talking about problems at Prokop station, about illegal construction on Lake Uvac, you said that there was a greater impact in eastern Serbia on Professor Mic with "Megatrenda" than anyone in the current ministry. You said Delta City was built without any permission. We are really interested – are these problems solved in the meantime, Mr. Minister? I know it's not easy to get rid of what the previous minister did, but let's finally get to a concrete solution to these problems. In this debate, the DSS MPs have just spoken and made remarks on the deadlines that the law envisioned for the issue of a solution when entering buildings in the state-run cadastre, we have requested that they be specified. The DSS also demanded that criteria for the issue of a geodetic licence be tempered, saying that if adopted, such a bill would allow only highly educated personnel, which unfortunately do not have enough in Serbia and that out of some 800 geodetic enterprises, only a dozen would be able to operate. As you can see, we were absolutely right and after four years it's the subject of an amendment to this law, but we think this solution to the first and second-row license is not the happiest solution. Yesterday we had a terrible explanation from a fellow MP, who tried to even professional and academic studies, which is absolutely unacceptable. Let's not let when this law is passed, let's not let people who have completed academic studies, who have passed 40 or more exams, with someone who has had 30 exams. If they were the same, they'd be called the same, they'd have the same names, they could get licenses exactly the same. There is another solution in this law that can be problematic. In 2011, the previous Government adopted a Regulation on the amount of compensation for the use of the data in the diameter of the catastra and the provision of services to the RGZ. This Regulation carries with it a great risk of corruption, since it does not comply with the provisions of the Law on State measure and catastro. I remind you, the regulation serves to enforce the law, not to supplement the legal provisions. Imagine what your predecessors in the government adopted. This Regulation provides for a tariff-based fee to be increased by 100% if the provision of data and the provision of services is carried out at the request of a priority resolution, and the RGZ responds and solves only those items urgently. I would understand that this provision may have been found in the law, of course they would have criticized it, to attack it, but we think it's inadmissible that this kind of matter is regulated by regulations. It is clear how much this Regulation has opened up opportunities for corruptive action. The Anti-Corruption Agency also reacted to this, and the Constitutional Court, which declared this regulation against the constitution. She reacted to a group of people who called themselves Constitutional Court judges, related to this regulation, and of course commendable, but it cannot be commendable that the Constitutional Court has kept silent for years, related to DSS requirements for the assessment of constitutionality. Let's not talk now about the Statute of Vojvodina, the Judicial Academy, but exactly the regulation that the previous government has made, as regards the cadastrian books and the surrenders to the Cypriot secessionists in Kosovo. The Democratic Party of Serbia has proposed that I do not owe it, since I do not have a long time, a change in Article 174, where taxis are determined by geodetic institutions and clearly specify a deadline within which he is obliged to do so. I really need to take this opportunity to mention the spatial plan, as the basic development document of the Republic of Serbia. Each government made a strategy. We have more than 50 strategies in Serbia, but the problem is that they are not implemented and not implemented. The only purpose of each strategy, each plan, is to provide for clear obligations to operate in the future. And you, Mr. Ilic, spoke of this, of a spatial plan, that it was not respected in the previous period. Every day in the media, we have a chance to hear that there are problems again. It is the only document on which the government can even regional development in Serbia, based on which this country can develop properly. I hope you will carefully consider amendments to the DSS, in line with your view to our extremely constructive and well-intentioned proposals that we have made on the proposal of this law. We will define in the voting day whether or not we will support this law, but I believe that the time has finally come for this problem to be resolved in Serbia. They're painful cuts, maybe they should work radically, but there's no more time to wait, because this is the problem that millions of people in this country have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21291	Mr. Marinkovic, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21292	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21293	You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21294	My colleague mentioned my speech yesterday, and you can see it directly. Let me make my arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21295	It's not enough reason to have a replica. I'm sorry, but there was nothing offensive. I followed well, there was nothing offensive. He's entitled to his opinion on something. Don't, please, take every opportunity. Thank you, but I won't allow you a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21296	Then a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21297	Please, Mr. Marinkovic, you have no basis. Thank you. Do you want to go through the Rules of Procedure? (Vladimir Marinkovic: So... No, I didn't give you my word. Please sit down. I didn't give you my word. (Vladimir Marinkovic: Do I have the right to speak or not?) You don't have a word. The word is from the People's Messenger Zeljko Sušec.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21298	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the RGZ, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Prime Minister and Catastro aims to address any shortcomings that hinder the work of the RGZ, i.e. geodetic organisations. Overcrowding in cases creates inefficiencies and insufficient organisation within geodetic organisations and thus presents and creates a serious problem for the citizens of Serbia. There is hardly a city in Serbia where citizens have no objection to working in terms of the length of the process of obtaining various documents from geodetic organisations. This is only one reason for the existing law to be complemented in some parts of the amendments for the work of creating a better, more organised, more efficient law that meets EU and Council of Europe standards. The new proposal and the additions of the Law on State Prime Minister and Catastro determines better working organisation and responsibility in the light of the distribution of staff in geodetic organisations on the basis of expert training. In fact, the practice so far has shown that in geodetic organisations some complex tasks carry out middle-level professional training and that they receive personal income without compensation for overtime and the weight of tasks they carry out. The new proposal and the amendments to the law regulate the distribution of work organisation and responsibilities in the light of the distribution of employees in geodetic organisations on the basis of their professional arrangements and evaluation of their work and of the personal income through the possibility of an additional coefficient ranging from 3% to 50%, depending on the jobs and responsibilities they carry out. With this add-on, employees get a working stimulant that affects the organisation in many ways, the implementation of their work obligations. The Law on Planning and Construction provides for the conversion of rights, the use of property rights over immovable property, registration upon request and registration under official duty, leading to a number of cases being resolved. The salary added eliminates corruption space, which is very important considering that one of the conditions for Serbia's entry into the EU. The new bill also established the acquisition of a geodetic licence based on professional training and years of work experience, all with the aim of creating a more expedient working team in the office. The new law also lays down supervision, i.e. inspection controls and, in the case of violations of laws and regulations, sanctioning the withdrawal of a specified period of time by the institutions, as well as fines for offenders. The new bill also determines the level of taxi charges provided by the law as well as the exemption from fees to the Republic of Serbia, the AP Vojvodina, the units of local self-government, the persons who have been returned by law to the property by means of earlier regulations, the person to register for the settlement of the inheritance, the person in the process of correcting the error, the person in the process of providing public insight of the immovable data and the real rights over them. Also, fees are exempt for the purpose of exercising the right of compulsory social security, social protection, martial law and disability, protection of disabled workers, insight into the documentation of the geodetic catastrian information system or of documentation in analogue form carried out directly in the premises of the office, as well as for internet insight. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources, but is being redistributed by the funds set out in the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for the RGZ. The entry into force of the Law on Special Conditions for the registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit significantly increased the work of the RGZ, making it necessary for employees to distribute and evaluate its work as soon as possible and to reduce the employment rate so far. Based on everything and to see once again that the new bill accelerates and promotes, organises and values the work of RGZ and geodetic organisations and its employees. In the end, I must point out that this is only the first phase of reconstruction of the existing law, which creates a good direction for making a good law that is in the interest and service of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In the day for the vote, the SNS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the amendment law and additions of the State Time and Catastro Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21299	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic. Eight minutes at your disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21300	I would like to commend, for example, in Article 20, that more local self-government, the provinces and authorities of local self-government will not have to pay taxes to the cataster, which I think is very good and about, that would be that of these good sides of the law, and then we should pay little attention in any case, that this law will contribute to meeting the objectives, these newly-proclaimed ones, now before the reconstruction, which is constantly mentioned, which is the entry into EU bliss, then improving business activity, attracting foreign, therefore, not domestic, but foreign investors. That's what they talk about all the time. I don't know what that's about. How to reach the European Union standard if we do not have a clearly defined system in the entire area of urbanism. It seems to me that this law, like some of my colleagues said, defines everything that should be done in order to solve these problems here in the area of urbanism. How do we get to the European Union without planning and building laws? I read the other day that the assistant minister said that if she did not enter the planning and construction law procedure by half of July, it could not be adopted by September. If I'm counting correctly, that deadline's over. How can you not have legalization laws? If you know from June 6th, the law on legalisation, i.e. the provisions of the law on planning and construction, are not applicable, so that all citizens are bitter that they cannot enforce legalisation. It is, respected citizens, just for the sake of the lack of urgency of the Ministry of Urbanism and Building. How could you not have planned documents that didn't do all the local self-government? How to the European Union with the Law on the registration of property rights, which is the time of legalisation, so it is free legalisation, so it is not legalisation at all? How do we attract investors with a complicated bureaucracy that is still in effect, how with complicated property-legal relations, which I also expected this law on state diameter and catastro to do a little better to arrange, without the municipal infrastructure on parcels? How about a complicated and long procedure for issuing building permits, which we said we'd change? How to improve the economy, when the Republic Geodetic Institute charges double taxes and thus puts citizens in an unequal position, that of the 29 regulations that are important for the economy in the last year, twenty were adopted by emergency procedure. How do administrations, i.e. these administrative jobs, take the most of the time in the economy, specifically, in the Catastres when we speak? Catastres problems are, in fact, practical. So, I say in the Republic Geodetics Institute and 120 Immobilization Catastrophe services per local self-government, and it is practically necessary to solve them. The first problem is the number of workers in the Catastres. We heard over 3,200 employees yesterday, along with these people who are employed in local services. Then I found information that 208,500 items were passed from local self-government to enroll property rights. Something over 3,200 is later, without these legalisation requirements also being passed. How all these people are gonna deal with this stuff. So, despite the pay and the stimulant and everything, I don't think they can make it there at all, especially in the local environments. We heard yesterday in Žitište, there are five employees in the Catastra. There are 12 in the municipality of Chatin. How are they going to solve over 3,500, close to 4,000 requirements for enrollment of property rights that are transferred as legal requirements for legalisation, plus additional requirements? How all these people are going to ask for an update of the paperwork, because there's just no legalization done, because no paperwork has been completed. They need to be asked for consent in order to carry out this registration of property rights before the legalisation procedure is completed. The pleasure, for example, has three employees, rather than the Chaetites, has much less demands. We come to the fact that workers are re-employed in these civil services by the number of inhabitants. We can't watch the population anymore. We need to look at the number of requests, the number of building permits issued. A simple urban situation and a construction situation in the local self-government. We can't do it any other way. Also, the RGZ should complete the address register of Serbia's villages and cities, 3.2 million apartments per the last census, as well as with who. I'm going back to the Cheetin municipality, over 90% of the buildings in the settlement of Zlatibor we've listed and given a cadastre to prepare them all, and when we wanted to take after the finished data, then we had to pay at some discount, but it had to be paid with a number of publishing and confiscation licenses, immobilization lists, a lot of those things that the RGZ had to do, I just don't know how with such a small number of workers. You're saying there's no personnel? It's not true that there are no personnel, only local self-governments have to create a favourable environment and a good climate, that people come here and work. How do they get back to the Hall of Chatin? To every competition, people from Novi Sad and Kragujevac apply, trainees come to work interns with us and receive everything, we want to train them to work, to give them some experience. We're running the wrong policy? We need to scholarship young people, at the start of public enterprises, local self-government, to run state analysis, labour market analysis, scholarship young people, and make them come to work with us. I think it's a good policy. Also, without an analysis of the situation, we're training some of the staff we don't need, so we come into this situation so we can't find the right people, and people want to work, in any case, we just have to reward them and we can't pay the catastrists now, I agree that we should, a great deal of work, but they can't do all that, but we have to look at local self-government because you have a department of urbanism that works five thousand legalization demands. What about that clerk? Why doesn't he get a pay stimulant? It can't be done. The Ministry of Finance banned it and I couldn't agree more. It has to be saved, but we have to and we look at every level and every area to give it to everyone equally. And I'd also like to say that the data on the RGZ site is somewhat unsupervised, that changes in the shape of the parcels should not be carried out properly, that is, only if there is a cadastra error, but not if it needs to be removed because of the sewers, the plumbing and the like. It's not done, and no one knows why all these changes don't happen. On the other hand, the RGZ states that they are guilty of citizens, which does not complement documentation or municipalities that do not send consent. Again, what the Law on the State's Prime Minister and the Catastro need to solve, which is the problem of the country's disappearance of state property. So, we have problems that are happening, and that's that when the situation on the ground compares with the parcels and the situation in the cataster, it's seen that many of the plots that are state-owned are simply gone, there's no record of them going anywhere else. What's going on? Someone wants to get to some state plot, make a deal with someone in the catastra, in that local cadastre service, then they slowly re-write it, and it happens to happen, until someone notices. If they notice, they say, it's a mistake, and it's a very long reduction, and if no one notices, they sit and wait and then they're listed as holders waiting for that five-year deadline to be typed in by those who own and all happy and happy. It's one big source of corruption in the RGZ, in these local catastra services, and I think it's a big problem, because that's where the band comes in. In any case, and those who need to protect the interests of citizens, or the state, which is a municipal public defender or republican, I'm not saying that in any case, but simply if they're not aware that there's some problem that someone's usurped some plot of state, they can't even react, or there's no time, and I'm saying, there are cases that work safely and in a way and then the public defender doesn't put an objection to public exposure that happens in the catastrus for that plot, and that's how it goes. It is a big problem, because such a situation has happened in Odjaks municipality, we have seen, we have, and we must know that we cannot cosmetically and superficially solve things, but essentially, we cannot talk to the EU, but we must specifically solve and implement certain activities, in order to fix and create a system and solve the ultimate area of urbanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21301	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21302	Thank you. Maybe I won't be as eloquent as my previous speaker, I won't even try to be so eloquent, I'll try to be as brief as possible, as sublime in my presentation. So, my parliamentary experience after 2000 gives me the right to say that since 2000, we have really had the opportunity to enjoy trying to fix the situation in the area of national diameter and catastra, one of the very important areas that has been supported by numerous and large funds from abroad, I will not say that it is only from the EU, that it is not that I am a Euro fanatic, and I am not a Euro skeptic, nor a Euro fanatic, I will just say that we have had the opportunity to attend all these, unfortunately, less successful attempts to fix the situation in such a significant social area as the catastra. A number of attempts have been recorded and some of the ministers have been drilling into their chests to fix it very quickly and will bring it into order for 24 hours of maltene. Unfortunately, here we are also in 2013, as a state, we have the need to understand in this area which, as I have already pointed out, has made significant steps, not only in the area of state-of-the-art, but also in the area of co-operation with other state bodies, which has been very good seen in the case of the co-operation of the Republic Geodetic Institute and the Serbian Orthodox Church and the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, which has managed to bring together certain very difficult issues that will mean a great deal to us in the perspective of defending our rights in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija. I must now regret to conclude that for the weekend most of the MPs, members of other parliamentary groups, were not present at the premises of Kosovo and Metohija in a visit organised by the Kosovo and Metohija Office, where we could also see the importance of the catastra, because on the occasion of a visit to Orahovac, we were able to share with a host who handles 20 hectares of vineyards, we say that he was very sorry that he did not have the opportunity to use with documents from the Serbian state, to prove his right to property, which is a testimony that in the previous period it was really bad in that area. Fortunately, his grandmother saved the deed from the Turkish period, so the man managed to protect his rights, but I hope that those who want to help people in Kosovo and Metohija, too, will have the courage and strength to stay with us as often as possible south of Iber and north of Iber, so that we can help them and come to a more concrete solution. But to return to the very proposal to amend and supplement the Law on state-owned Prime Minister and Catastro. As I have already said, the situation in this area is very, I can say, important to the sense of our people that after 13 years, more precisely after 12 years, the authorities of the pro-reform forces in reduced scope had a sense of justice and justice. When a Serbian peasant cannot be sure to confirm or say or to very easily confirm his right of property, and this can most often be established, prove by means of an up-to-date good RGZ and cadastre, then that man also resorts to self-help or seeks some other modes to protect his rights. Therefore, at this point, it is very important that we support the efforts made by the ministry to address the situation in the area, to support one of these draft laws, which has been drawn up to this end, and today it is before us, to consider it, and to possibly make our proposals for its amendment, supplementing or improving those solutions contained in this bill. I call on all MPs to take full responsibility for taking part in this examination of this law. So, as can be seen from the attached text, the reasons for the adoption of this law are, above all, the increased volume of work, which the RGZ will have in the next period, the stimulation, above all, by the RGZ worker to do their job with responsibility and honor. I have to point out that there have been more attempts in history, not only in Serbia but throughout the world, and that anything shortest could be defined as -- to give a good reward to whoever works, but also to threaten him with good sanctions, that if he does not work, he can lose that compensation and that he will be left without compensation and without a job. This is a good attempt, so the provision of Article 1, which prescribes calls and salaries of civil servants in the RGZ geodetic professions on executive jobs, has been tried and suggested that employees of the RGZ, who perform field, professional, geodetic and cadastrian tasks, have jobs that are limited by deadlines, have jobs that are limited and very responsible and that they are given a special way and special stimulant to effectively carry out these tasks. With that in mind, I, as an MP for the Socialist Movement Alexander Vulin, have nevertheless tabled an amendment to which I wanted to improve this bill, which, most recently, was tried to put those workers of the RGZ into the same rank, not only geodetic professions but also other professions and not only make a difference between them who work from the geodetic profession and those who are lawyers, economists, because they really need to be rewarded by all those who are engaged in RGZ on these important jobs, whether their profession is geodetic or not. For this reason, I hope that both the Ministry and Minister Ilic will have the understanding of this amendment and that they will respect my intention to come up with a common solution that will mean creating better conditions for the stimulation of all workers, I have heard that opposition colleagues have submitted a similar proposal, that it is one proof that we want to accept everything that is positive and that what is negative, of course, we remove. The scope and activities of the RGZ and employees of the RGZ have been increased and will be increased in the coming period because major infrastructure projects in Serbia are taking place or cities, and because according to the Law on Special Conditions for the registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit, it is expected to register facilities and property rights over them, some, as we have seen, millions and 300 thousand such objects in the Republic of Serbia. Also, the Law on Planning and Construction provides for a conversion of the right to use precisely property on immovable property, and now I have to say as a pyrocan, that one of the very important things that are contained in this bill is specifically arranged to call, advance and additional coefficient for salaries of the employees of the geodetic profession, the essence of my amendment is to call it on other professions. It is interesting that the proposal of this law has tried to eliminate itself, that I would use a milder term, eliminate corruption, not to the fullest extent possible, corruption exists in all areas, but it is enough to try to reduce this corruption and that those who work on such responsible jobs do not become tempted to succumb to this corruption, but by adding to the wages of those who work in responsible jobs, to make it known that they can be properly well and adequately rewarded for their work, and not to think of being in a situation of corruption. I must also point out that it is good that Article 17, more specifically in Article 7, which has been amended by Article 17, tries to settle in the field of geodetic work, because in that area after 2009 and then the law adopted by the DS, the geodetic organisation practically, or a multitude of geodetic organisations, have been put out in a position to be put out, because they did not meet the criteria under which they had to operate, and that this proposal for geodetic organisations that have at least two geodetic persons, with at least a secondary geodetic school, passed through a state expert examination and three years of experience in the area, could also be done in view of the increased number of jobs in this geodetic area, to enable the employment of these geodetic organisations and their functioning, and not to be closed as it was legal in 2009. On the one hand, it is also possible to work more widely and to create conditions for the greater engagement of these organisations, but, on the other hand, in addition to expert, more specifically, in addition to inspection supervision, it also introduces the expert supervision that the geodetic organisation is obliged to, in order to remove irregularities in its work, which are established in both professional and not only in inspection control, and this is the step to increase the surveillance issue, so that those working in that area are more severe or strictly controlled, in order to potentially prevent abuses in that area. It is also good that what is provided for in Article 10, that the licenses issued for work in geodetic organisations are kept by the register within the framework of the office which will be available both to the issued licences and to those taken away, so that citizens will be able to make direct insights of those organisations involved in these activities via the Internet. It is specified in Article 14 that, on request of the Authority, the Authority is obliged to deliver to the Office a copy of certified purchase and lease contracts for the purposes of assessing the value of the immovable property. It's one area I'd like to talk about a little bit more, since I'm coming from Piroth, where it's built through the territory of the town of Piroth, and it's still being built, unfortunately, and three days after the deadline or much more than three days after the deadline, Corridor 10. There is great dissatisfaction precisely because of the question of the estimated value of the immovableity that has been done so far in the way it has been done. So, according to income management data. I absolutely agree with the intensities that the cadastre is more important and more important in assessing the value of immovableity, because how to explain to one citizen or the town of a pyrotian village that, for example, a square or an ar is paid at one price in the country of Serbia, and that on the other hand for three times the price of such a country, almost similar bonity, is charged. Unfortunately, there has been an ecultaneous occurrence or an exit to the surface of all the negative things in this area, so that absolutely both as a MP and as a socialist, as a leftist, but also as a nationalist, I advocate that such a question be better and more adequate. Since I have already pointed out that I am a Pyrocan, Article 20 has regulated the question of compensation. The Pyrocans know that we are famous for our economics and our savings. For all citizens of Pirot, but also for all citizens of Serbia, it is very important that this article determines that there will be no tax on insight into the data carried out in the premises of the institutions and the data on the Institute's website, which is practice and the EU. It's something that's going to make people happy who want to make sense of their immovableities, and that's something we're also going to support. What is important about inspection supervision of the issue of cartographic publications and inspections carried out by inspectors is also an important area, given that in practice there has been a lot of incorrect data in the area, which do not have the consent of the Republic Geodetic Institute and it is really necessary to sort out the situation in the area in order not to take place as they have already been recorded, that in the public and in some professional issues false cartographic publications appear. Because of this, my smallness as a member of the Socialist Movement, Alexander Vulin, will vote in favour of this bill and provide full support for the settlement of the situation in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21303	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21304	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd just like a few sentences in favor of why I'm going to be a member of the Roma Party and a member of the SNS Parliament Club to support this law. Simply, this is just the continuity of the regulation that comes from the European agenda. This is a continuation of a socio-responsible relationship with the state. This is evident from the very fact that the most socially vulnerable are the benefits in that part or compensation when they have to pay to obtain certain documents. Let me say something in favor of why it is good and why we have to stop demagogy when we talk about whether someone should have big wages. Not all civil servants are in the same situation. They are not in the same situation in a municipality of five civil servants who are employed because they are godfathers and political members, five of them are working on the same job and, on the other hand, people are geodetics who work for the two of them. If you take five of them working in one job, and one of them works for them, then it would be logical for all those who represent the concept of liberal capitalism to say – so he should have ten times the pay, because five times two is 10. Once and for all, we have to stop this demagogy so that we can all have the same salary, that we can all win the same, and that we will thus create a better and richer Serbia. No, that's how poor Serbia is created if we all get the same, that's how bad Serbia is created and that's how bad generations are nurtured. We have to stop making municipal administrations, our ministries, our different environments a place of employment for those who are nowhere else to be employed. I believe that this is a very responsible relationship, just you, ministers, and the people who have prepared this law, and that in this way we define a different policy, to define the creation and planning of personnel in relation to what the requirements and needs of the market are, and that if we go to those rates, we can indeed respond in the next five, six years to an important EU request, which is to rationalise the number of civil servants, who today are a serious burden to us. I'd be done with it. I wouldn't repeat everything my colleagues said. That's enough reasons, what my colleagues were talking about and what I was talking about today, that we support this law, because we see it as a law on legalization, which is in the procedure and all of those laws as something that needs to introduce order into informal settlements and in such a way that we really get the different structures of the population out of misery, poverty and give them one better option. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21305	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21306	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Republic Geodesy Institute, we have heard a lot of criticism today, but there are things we must certainly praise. They may be indirectly tied to this law, but they are certainly corridors that I personally have the opportunity to see that they are working as quickly as possible. There's a big stake in this job, too, because they're engaged in all these locations. Minister, it's also good that those hills and valleys are being broken. The stone is breaking, but that oak everyone's talking about remains and deserves to be preserved, as it is. The first thing we talk about when we talk about this amendment to the law or everything this law provides, I have to say that the parliamentary group will support it. There are three things I would focus on. The first thing we're talking about is the salaries of employees who work there. The JS parliamentary group has tabled one amendment. In our conversation with you, we have heard that this amendment will also be accepted, and that is to coordinate, in addition to that harmonisation, not nominally increasing their earnings, but harmonising one additional security to those people who do these jobs, to try to even people who are not from that profession. First of all, I think of lawyers and all the others who work and are not directly related to geology. I also had a chance to see how many people it was. Currently, there are some 2,400 permanent employees in the Republic Geodetic Service. I've seen the structure of all these people. Why is the JS MP group defined as supporting this is primarily the reason it's not the number everyone's been talking about, that there are now thousands and thousands of workers. I can't make an accurate assessment, but probably the people who deal with it have defined themselves as an optimist. Do you need to have more at the bars, one of your colleagues mentioned it a little while ago, I think you should. I come from a small environment, from Vrnjačka Banja, but Vrnjačka Banja is certainly interesting, as well as Zlatibor, according to its increased construction. What bothers people is that some time a little longer is waiting for all these documents, but I think it's one narrow throat when it comes to people who work there. Why isn't this a big number and why do we have to support this? Because there are now over 130 and some agencies in Serbia, and I highly doubt that you or any minister from this current government, perhaps even from the past, those who created them, would be able to list all these agencies. The fact is that all these agencies spend over a billion euros annually. There's something else that's very important. I'm not sure that besides the agency's name they can list what those agencies are doing. And here we talk about people who do concrete things, whose work is certainly measurable. By supporting all these employees, we draw attention to you and the people who oversee their work is that maybe you should introduce one book of impressions into every catastre in the place, that it's the closest form of your communication with your clients, because it's not in every place the same. One of the colleagues mentioned at one point, when you were talking about whether you should give the director authority to support or not to support, that he might be the one who rewards the workers, you said you deleted it and that it would be the same for everyone. Maybe, on the other hand, you should give the directors those powers. Because yet they know best, as the first employers, who works more, who works less, etc. I don't think there should be any pay to be a measure of whether or not someone wants to work. We have too many people on the labour market who would be happy to work for one of these wages. The other thing I want to comment on first of all with the director of the RGZ is that we have an example of Jagodina where, under the circumstances, there are more investors than in some other environments. I don't want to talk about what's causing this situation, but the fact of the field is that all areas below five acres can solve your branches or seduce your place, and anything that's over five acres, it has to get to Belgrade. What's most interesting is that it's going very quickly at the bar, it's being dealt with urgently, and when it gets to Belgrade, there's some kind of stalemate. It's just that I want to point out to you, that you might be able to predict some major powers when it comes to locals and that this is what they do. The other member who got my attention is a member of the 17th. I don't think it's right that we should limit whether one professional person or two should work, i.e. to be both reported, so that one store could work and work. We should try to affirm these people with every law to keep their jobs, and this is how we got them into one situation to be dependent on some people who have diplomas, and the fact is that 90% of the catastra jobs are done by people who have medium professional equipment. Why do I say that? I'm going to go up to Article 29 now, because I personally think there's been a mistake here. In fact, people who have worked in one system with medium professional training, where they finished school to deal with the work they're doing now, are in a position to stay out of the job and stay out of the company. These are people who have served for over 20, 30 years. So they have two variants. The first option is that in 55-60 years they're enrolling in colleges, which you have to agree is not easy. The question arises what happens until those who commit to such a thing are finished? Secondly, do we now give this law the opportunity to engineers, those who already have these licenses, to privately tax these people who have medium professional equipment and have companies that have been working for years? I think you should pay attention to these questions. I've read the amendments that have been submitted so far, it's not as much as anyone says, but a lot of amendments have applied to individual members. Once again, the MPs of the JS Group will certainly support this law, and I would ask you to respect these suggestions that I have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21307	Thank you. The word is Dusan Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21308	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What is most important today is something that is global, not only about this law, but this law shows a clear decision by this government to completely ignore the Institute of Public Affairs. We can see that the procedure in which this law came on the agenda is precisely in favour of the current government holding this in some closed circles and fearing the opinion of professional people. We know that this law was made in the narrow interest circles of the Bureau itself, even the staff of the Bureau were not fully informed without talking about the Chamber of Engineering, which was not absolutely consulted here. It's something that becomes the pain of this government and it's something we haven't fought for, Mr. Ilic, at any point. What we need to say is that these things are important that are constantly forgotten, not because they are only the fluids of democracy, but because, for example, we know that every year we have very justified strikes of people employed in the Geodetic Institute, which lasts for a few weeks. They have not been consulted this time, and they are a very relevant and appreciated institution in this area. When we were looking for the data at the time of the writing, we knew who had it, and these are people close to the management of the Geodesy Institute. Of course, we're not talking about when the law entered the finale itself and the assembly procedure, it's always a shorter time, and if sometimes you honestly want to fix the law, you can't just do it with amendments. It takes more time for something. If a law has been set upside down since the beginning, no good amendment can correct it. As far as the second part of this public speech is concerned, it should be said that the data from the catastra are the fundamentals for investment building and real estate traffic. It is quite clear why the public institution is important here and why it is the state's interest to fix this absolutely well. When we go according to details, Mr. Minister, in Article 2 of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, and in fact by amendments to Article 11, point 2), we have proposed through amendments but I also want to draw your attention to the fact that the complaint is in the second degree – the Ministry of Labour of the Institute. This is our proposal, because this would be related to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister, we know that this government won't be long, although every day you spend is too long for the citizens of Serbia and this is a well-known position of the DS. Because as the new government comes into existence, new ministries are created. This has been done, unfortunately, by all governments in the past, but in you this government is an additionally famous division of competences between you and Mr Mrkonjic and even the Ministers of Energy and Mining. It's all set up now, and a lot of people who are serious about this job don't know who to turn to anymore. You are this law, instead of binding to the Government Act and saying it this way, you have bound it to your ministry, which is the question of whether it will exist after July 27th, and the new year will certainly not be welcomed. It's something we're absolutely sure of, and it's something that bothers us, because it's said here that people want to make themselves laws that will tell their children and grandchildren and call on the period when they were in power, but we're going to have to sit back and change the law when the name of the ministry changes. The sincerest request is that we bind to the Government Act and simply make this law very clear and that at least in some formal part it is applicable. From the first point I resented, it is evident that this law did not involve the brain very much when some parts were written that are very important. As for Article 4 of the Law amending the law... . We'll wait for the minister to finish the conversation. Please, Minister, since most of the address is to the public of Serbia and the people who deal with this area, but also to you as competent minister, because we really want to hear you at the moment when you are holding the greatest responsibility for such a bill. So Article 4. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law speaks in fact of Article 13 of the Basic Act, paragraph 3, where we have proposed that a legal entity which is a direct or indirect beneficiary of budgetary resources, in accordance with the Budgetary System Act, may be granted a licence for works under Article 12 of this Act, which can only be carried out for their own purposes. This is something that is a proposal to bring this law into line with another legal act that also regulates here, and then I will talk about it, the Law on Planning and Construction, which is also controversial in Article 20 of this Law on Amendment of Law. So there are legal entities, public enterprises that are the founder of the city, autonomous province or republic, but in no way are they privileged by their founder. In fact, they can be very well marketed to participate in all tenders and in which they are not privileged. They fight on the market because they have licenses and all the necessary permits. There's no reason to get into this situation. What needs to be said here is that many of them are being treated as direct or indirect budget users, but actually they're not. You have a large number of such institutions in Serbia. When this proposal limits all such companies to obtain work permits for their own purposes only, then such public enterprises come into a situation that they are not even on the market, because they actually are now. By focusing on work for their own needs, those legal entities and public enterprises lose the ability to obtain a first-row licence, thus reducing the rating of the geodetic organisation for the market. The amendment accurately separates legal entities and public enterprises users of direct and indirect budgets that can only work for their own purposes, while other legal entities and public undertakings that are not beneficiaries of the budget receive equal status and the possibility of participating in the competition. It's something we've also wanted to say with this amendment, and it's very important. In addition, we have seen here a great misunderstanding of our modern education system. He has survived a part of the reform related to university education. We see the entire carambole that was created by your formulation of what are called functions, or diplomas of finished geodetics. Here is the first conflict between those who end up in Belgrade's Faculty of Civil Engineering, the geodetic department, and you have the University of Novi Sad. There is a fundamental misunderstanding that we now need to include in all legal proposals the number of points, so-called ESP points, and that's something that's completely forgotten here. In a few amendments, we'll talk about it in the amendment day, you've got the whole wrong set for the master. You're a master, Mr. Ilic, but probably according to the old program. Maybe you don't even know how to score points, how they get together, what they're called. This is very imprecise, Mr. Minister. I don't know who wrote you. Perhaps Mr. Obradovic was busy in the days when he was supposed to help you, although I don't know what it's like on Megatrend. In any case, the big problem will arise if the formulation remains. We have submitted some five amendments concerning what academic studies are. You're putting a lot of people in trouble who can't afford their diplomas now, valorize. They will also have problems at their current jobs, but also later to get new jobs and permits. That's something we'll talk about in the amendment day, because there are five examples that we've submitted. But if this becomes a practice that the government does not respect those provisions regarding education in... I'm sorry, colleagues, you're so loud, I can't concentrate. So, in any case, young people who today know what these points are I'm talking about and know what diplomas they're wearing, they're very concerned about their destiny. I understand that you in your office have people who don't understand our education. I understand that the Minister of Education doesn't get involved much in his work, but I ask you not to play with such great things as the titles you mentioned here in several places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21309	The minister wanted a word. Mr. Minister, I'm sorry, there's still procedures. You, I see, want to give the final word. Please hold for a minute, two of you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21310	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have learned in consultations between my two presentations that the ministry will accept an amendment that corrects discrimination between the employees of the geodetic profession and the lawyers and informers, so I would like to thank the minister for the consideration of these employees, because if we expect adequate results, we must pay them adequately. I guess that's what this law is all about. What I haven't been able to find, and I've contacted other colleagues from my Parliament club is a bill on legalization. I want to inform you, since you are obviously not well informed, that this law has not yet reached the assembly procedure. You may have signed it, but he didn't come to the assembly. Once again, apart from this amendment relating to equalising employees in the RGZ, we have submitted a number of other amendments where we primarily eliminate discrimination against masters of academic studies established under the 2005 Higher Education Act and which you really need to respect. We are here to participate in the work of the Committee on Spatial Planning, which will consider all amendments and we really want this law, although it will not improve the work of the RGZ and will not help greatly improve and speed up the resolution of the remaining cases, to make a full contribution to the better adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21311	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21312	Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's a two-day principle discussion of the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on State Prime Minister and Catastra, it's time to slowly add up the impressions. I will speak on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group. The impressions are that this is a quality law, as we said at the beginning of the debate, that the law is fully in line with European standards, that it is good to comply with the laws previously adopted, whether it is the Law on Planning and Construction or the Law on Higher Education. Of course, this law, hopefully, will make the citizens faster and easier to access data from the catastra. And so far, these data have been very nicely available through the RGZ website, but now there will be opportunities for some new data to be made available, because this is still the cheapest way to access data, and on the other hand, the way Europe particularly insists, because Europe and the EU in particular insist that all data be made available online, so as recently introduced, for example, Serbian citizens and texts adopted laws in the Assembly will be able to access free of charge, so some other data concerning the work of RGZ will be able to access free of charge. Of course, in voting day, the SNS will support this law. We appreciate the efforts of Minister Ilic, we appreciate the efforts and director of the RGZ. We are especially pleased that some amendments will be adopted. We hear that the maltenes in the identical text of the amendment have been submitted by both SNS MPs and opposition MPs, so we have no doubt that this will be a very high-quality law, a law that will contribute to the European path of Serbia, contribute to the harmonisation of our legal system with EU law and contribute to a better life of citizens, as well as a cheaper approach to information from the work of the RGZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21313	Thank you. The word has Minister Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21314	At the very end, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've been having a debate for two days about a law that is the way it is. I've received some of your corrections, suggestions, suggestions, and we'll accept those amendments that are good. It's already announcing what's going to happen. It'll all be included in the law. We'll suggest to the government that he accept it and be an integral part of the law. I want to thank all the MPs who participated in this debate, which I thought was extremely good and very good. There were some small deviations, some people mixed up the intelligence of the Republic Geodesy Institute and urbanism in certain environments, which was heard from the debate. Construction permits in cities, municipalities give urbanisms, not the Republic Geodetic Institute. Out of the up-to-dateness of urbanism itself and registration would be much better and faster, because they should give that one piece of paper that is very important that the object is not on the public surface, on the street track, on the intersection, etc. I wouldn't just agree with one. There were some stories here because of some laws, they stopped all the investments, they cared about this, they cared about it, and so on. She doesn't care about anything. It's an extremely big investment. The ministry, which I run, has completed and implement currently 640,000,000 euros in projects in the less than one year. There are two contracts ahead of the realisation in a few months, which are somewhere over 700,000 euros. If one ministry has an investment of about a billion and 250-300m euros, I can't say that investments have stopped and I can't say that certain services do nothing if they have prepared for all these projects certain studies, documentation, marked paths, issued all construction permits, or pre-issued all of this in order, recorded tens of thousands of new buildings in the immobility cadasar and a number of other things that have been done. Investors come every day. Believe me, if we organize properly, there's as much investment as you want. We cannot be able to receive those performers who are interested in working in Serbia. That's why I'm appealing. It is true that some projects are not being done, several facilities in Belgrade, for some technical reasons the city has to solve and which have been disputed for many years -- the city of the federal MUP, Višnica and several key facilities, Prokop and it should be resolved. But it's also true that many of the world's companies have come. I can tell you that we have made contracts and pre-contracts and arrangements for certain business dealings with companies that are among the 100 strongest in the world, and they have come here, that we now have great offers these days and even bigger investments, and if God gives, if half of it is realized, they'll start all of it with a full pair. It is true that two of our firms are bankrupt and it is difficult to go to tenders, that owners in one bad privatisation are arrested and are in prison, and the property under the supervision of the Special Court and that is an urgent matter that needs to be resolved and that is one of the problems. But also production workers aren't without a job. We've been looking for hundreds of carpenters these days, armymen, they're gone. It came out of this discussion that some professions are not respected. No, we respect all professions and respect. And I don't like those stories about who did what, where he ended up. A gentleman recently debated, I'm a Belgrade student from Belgrade University, and I don't allow anyone to talk to me, not to say where some have studied, but we appreciate highly educated people. There are 60,000 that cost. But they are not, as our people say, properly deployed. You've got great football players, but you can't play, if you have the top 10 backs and five goals, and that's no team, and you don't have any wings and centrifuges. So you have to have the builders, the engineers and everyone else to get into the business to get the job going. Now, some professions are deficiting, as this year's enrolment showed. That's why we appeal to young people to focus where the needs of this country are extremely large for the staff. I repeat, there are no construction engineers without a job. No machines without a job. Every day good lawyers get jobs that know they're doing a good job, but there's some professions, there's some colleges -- these days I've had a competition and people have called, they've brought in diplomas that we've asked for from the personnel service. They didn't know how to interpret what that man was interested in. It's a high-tech cook, but we can't put her anywhere. Someone came up with a private college, gave him a name, people finished, and maybe they're top experts, but that should be regulated. That is why it is my appeal that we turn a little bit to these occupations that are deficiting in Serbia. Now for the highway we need 1,000 carpenters, we need 1,000 army men, we need 1,000 concrete men, and they're gone. No one's answering for these occupations. Are we supposed to introduce the workforce from the outside? Young people are done and they're done, but that's why we're looking for the opportunity to requalified, re-route, train and hire them. These are the occupations that are now current. You can't find a construction machine handler to drive an extrafinisher today. There's a few of them. You can't even find 10 of them all over Serbia, working the highway, doing big ranges, etc. That's why we're calling for young people to come to school, come to those courses that we're trying to organize, reroute them and start working. That's it. We'll make this more through the amendments. Thank you. Thank you for two groups of amendments we're really going to accept. Don't just get angry, we'll try to make everyone happy because they're completely, minors identical, they're a little different, but we need to see what's most favourable. I hope we have such good cooperation in the future. I'm sorry if there were any little charms, but that's what always happens. This is a parliament, and it is not interesting in parliament if there are few and such discussions that are also evidence that parliament is the place where the debate is being held, where battles are being fought to get some jobs done well and done. Once again, thank you for your cooperation. Thank you, everyone. I'll see you at the defense of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21315	On the basis of Article 98(4), I am concluding my Rules of Procedure a principled review on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Border and Catastrophe. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I'm setting a break now. We continue work at 14.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21316	We're going back to work. We move on to a joint principled single search on the draft law on violations, a motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected as judges, a proposal for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor and a proposal to elect a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly is on the basis of a joint principled single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda. In addition to Proposal representative Nikola Selakovic, Justice and State Administration Minister Dragomir Milojevic, the chairman of the High Council of the Judicial Council and Zorica Stojisic, Daniela Sijedic, election members of the state council of prosecutors, urged that the members of the council also attend Dr Danilo Nikolic State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration, Master Milisav Coguric, Assistant Minister of Justice and State Administration Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice and State Administration and Zlatko Petrovic, Senior Advisor at the Justice and State Administration Ministry. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled single search with the proposals set out in points 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the daily work. Before the search opens, I remind you that according to article 193 and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. You've received a schedule of time per MP's group in the material. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) of Article 92(3) and Article 201(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled and uniform search on the draft law on infringements, a motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected as judges, a proposal for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor and a proposal for a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Minister Nikola Selakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21317	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as the criminal legislation is changing the next modern trend and the need of society, so also breaking legislation has changed in recent decades with the aim of becoming effective in combating these kinds of delicacies. The constitutional basis for the adoption of a new law on infringements stems from Article 97. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which provides, among other things, for the right to regulate proceedings before courts and other state bodies and to provide for delinquents, the procedure for determining the guilty and the liability for a certain type of delinquent, as well as sanctions for their perpetrators. Violent authorities in the former federal state and RS have had the status of government authority for decades. The RS infringement authorities have long applied the former Federal Law on Violations and the Republic Law on Violations in their work. That fact, as well as the need to change the status of law enforcement authorities, have affected the adoption of new cross-cutting legislation. On 21 November 2005, a new Law on Infringements was published, which stipulated that it would apply after a little more than one year had expired, i.e. since 01 January 2007, but its application was subsequently delayed until 01 January 2010, so that the law began to apply after four years of adoption. By the time the law was implemented, it had been amended and amended twice for the first time in 2008 and the second time in 2009. In itself, these facts indicate that the shortcomings of this law have already been observed. But there was also the need for the law to be further aligned with the emerging organisational changes. Violent authorities have finally obtained the status of courts and as part of a single judicial system of RS since January 1st 2010, have begun work organised as first-degree criminal courts and a senior criminal court as a second-degree court. In the beginning of the work of the criminal courts, criminal liability has been removed from the jurisdiction of the administration to the judicial authority. Infringement of responsibility to international legal requirements and the declaration of our Constitution, and in particular punishment for the most severe types of violations and sentences of prisons can only be done by independent courts. In this way, the right to a fair trial guaranteed by Article 6 has also been achieved in this area. The European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms adopted by our 2006 Constitution. However, regardless of the jurisdiction of criminal liability from the administration as part of the executive authority has been removed and entrusted to independent courts, only a partial reform has been carried out in the area of the offence because only the institutional framework has been set up. Addressing accumulated and diverse problems in the area of crime as a matter of need has been recognised since the previous Justice Ministry, which formed the Working Group for the Making of the Law on Violations in December 2011. The ministry of justice and the state administration ordered the Working Party to continue its work by working on this law from December 2011 until it was referred to the assembly procedure just over a month ago. The legislator’s intention when adopting the applicable Law on Infringements, since it was adopted in 2005 when a new Criminal Code was adopted, was obvious to bring the criminal justice system in line with the new Law on Infringements that should be applied by judges for violations to accept solutions from material and procedural criminal law. However, the inadequate acceptance of some unsatisfactory solutions made it difficult to apply the law in practice. In addition, the specificities of the infringement, as special criminal delinquents, bearing in mind the scope of these delicacies, which are carried out on a daily basis and the very need for an effective social reaction, requires an effective but specific court procedure. At the same time as the efficiency of the court proceedings, it is necessary to properly harmonise and protect the fundamental rights of the accused person with international standards relating to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. In order to address the problem in the work of infringements, it was necessary to draft a new law on infringements, which will regulate and resolve infringements in an economic and efficient manner and in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights, European Court of Human Rights decisions and other applicable international documents. A more modern, more meaningful, more efficient and more economic process is needed, which is a much more successful balance between general, social and individual interests. Legislative motives for adopting a new one, not for amending and supplementing the existing Law on Infringements, there are more. Let me point out just some of them. The existing law on violations is a sign of inconsistencies or, we could say, the dysfunction of the procedure. The procedure is complicated, and the legal solutions that regulate it have been unscheduled to the extent that the court and the participants in the infringement procedure are not allowed to end the proceedings in a legitimate and effective manner within a reasonable period for this type of delicacy. Reports on the work of misdemeanor courts show that some 600,000 cases were received annually by judges for the purposes of 593 cases, which occurred in late 2011, at the end of 1,088,990 pending cases, and at the end of 2012, 1,025,826 cases. The problem isn't just in the number of pending cases, because the situation with the percentage of duly executed judicial decisions and the collection of fines in criminal courts, we can say freely, is catastrophic. Thus, misdemeanor courts carry out fines of 14.3% in Belgrade, 32.5% in Zrenjanin, Valjev 16.8%, Kikinda 30.6%, Leskovec 23.7%, Arangelovac 16.3%, etc. Statistics indicate that the percentage of non-executed cases range from 70% to 86%. In this state of work of the criminal courts, the question of the purpose of their work is raised, the integrity of their existence and the purpose of conduct of the infringement procedure at all, if they become obsolete and the penalties are not charged at a percentage of 70% to 86%. If we apply these percentages to the number of solved cases, of 644,845, we'll see that it's almost completely useless to work in at least 450,000 cases. What kind of message does this send to potential offenders, doesn't even have to talk about it. In this state of affairs, there is no question of individual or general prevention in the execution of criminal cases. The existing Law on Infringements in the part of the measures to ensure the presence of the accused of the successful conduct of a misdemeanor procedure, the delivery of letters, etc., allowed participants in the procedure a series of abuses that led to, and still lead to, the limitations of criminal prosecution. Therefore, it was necessary not only to modernise the means of notifying the accused in the infringement process, but also to make them life-real, and all in order to discipline participants in the procedure and to enable the legal and effective conduct of the infringement procedure. The motive for the adoption of a new law on infringements is also the fact that an existing passiveity allows applicants to apply for a misdemeanour procedure, as their activity and interest ended with the submission of a misapplication or request. What happens to the application and how the proceedings end, it's not their concern, it's the court that's in charge. In addition, the special motive for the adoption of a new law is the drive to strengthen general and special prevention through legal solutions, thus affecting the reduction of the execution of this type of delicacy. The above-mentioned task was to draw up the text of a law that would improve existing legal solutions, in particular with regard to calling and ensuring the presence of the accused and other participants in the procedure, the difficulties identified in relation to short time limits for handling, then solutions regarding the execution of court decisions and payment of fines and judicial costs, as well as to align the resolutions of the Law on infringements with the relevant provisions of the law in the area of criminal matter and matter of enforcement, since, in the meantime, they have been since the last amendments to the applicable Law on Violation, implemented normative activity and in these areas. The legal text was preceded by an analysis of the problems of sending calls and collecting fines, which suggested the need for amendments to the law, which would improve the rate of payment of fines, but also to make the infringement procedure simpler and fairer for citizens. In the draft law, it was necessary to find the right measure of current development in this area, regulation, respect for the tradition and compliance of material and procedural and legal provisions with European standards and regulations. This bill was created by those who apply it, but representatives of science participated in the draft law. So, all those who know and deal with this area. During the work on this legal text, it was intervened in a number of members, starting with the removal of concerns in the application of the applicable Law on Infringements, so that a number of amendments to the current legal solutions were introduced and new institutes, new chapters, and some existing ones were left out. The working version of the law is published on the Justice and State Administration site. The public debate was particularly organised on 23 October 2012 when a detailed work version of the law was presented, as well as expert reports by respected professors of law school on the compliance of the labour version of the law in a given section with the Criminal Code. In line with the conclusion of the Committee of Government, public hearings specifically invited interested representatives of bodies, organisations, authorised applicants for the initiation of the infringement procedure, judicial authorities, the Ministry of Finance and Industry, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Infrastructure, Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications, representatives of international organisations, embassies, foreign states, the Commissioner for Equal Gender, NGOs and associations, the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Commissioner for Public Information and the Protection of Personality Data, DRI, professors, as well as other interested bodies, institutions and organisations. In addition, at the request of the community of entrepreneurs of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber particularly presents the work version of the Law on Violations, due to the high interest of entrepreneurs and their desire to participate in the debate. In particular, the draft law was presented in the presence of the largest number of judges of all infringements at the regular annual counseling of judges of criminal courts and it was possible to discuss proposed legal solutions, and the working version of the law was presented to representatives of all criminal courts and in the framework of the annual consultation organised by the Supreme Court of Cassation. The result of the public debate is the draft law that is before you today, and after every suggestion, suggestion, observation previously considered, with a large number being entered into the final version of the draft bill, i.e. now the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to point to a significant individual solution to this bill. At the very beginning, the draft law contains the definition of infringement as an illegal act which, by law or by other regulation of the competent authority, is designated as an offence and for which a criminal sanction is provided for. This definition of a breach corresponds to the solutions adopted in other legal systems that have similarity to the criminal system of the Republic of Serbia and is in line with the personality of the infringements, which, most often, make up both natural and legal persons. The earlier definition applied exclusively to infringements of natural persons. It was necessary in an appropriate manner to regulate the criminal liability of legal persons in order to further prevent the practice that legal persons, through changes in their status, avoid criminal liability or the obligation to pay a penalty. A more precise arrangement of work in the public interest creates conditions for this sanctions to be applied wider, which would be of doubtless benefit both to perpetrators and to the state. The court's obligation to establish the material truth has been replaced by the provision that the burden of proof is the mark of the offence and the criminal liability on the applicant's request to initiate the infringement procedure. In the present type of procedure, the overall burden of proof is actually in court, which puts it in an extremely unfavourable situation, given the proverbial inactivity of parties in the process, with frequent avoidance of reception of calls or appearances at hearings. The introduction of the basic rule that the party is obliged to obtain evidence, whose implementation it has proposed, will significantly improve the procedural discipline of the parties, given that it is in no doubt in the interest of the parties to obtain evidence in favour of their claims. In order to protect the prejudgment of innocence, as well as to respect the principle of equality before the court, the court may obtain evidence in favour of the defendant, if he is unable to do so himself. Failed delivery is one of the biggest problems with the infringement procedure. In large cities such as Belgrade, Novi Sad or Nis, the percentage of successful deliveries does not exceed 20%, resulting in an unwarranted length of proceedings, as well as a frequent occurrence of limitations. For these reasons, delivery provisions have been given special attention with the aim of their detailed arrangements, to minimise the possibility of abuse and avoidance of reception in order to delay the proceedings and avoid criminal liability. Delivery is regulated in more detail. Letters will be delivered via mail or other delivery services, introducing the possibility of competition with mail, as a way to raise the level of performance of delivery. There is a new way to deliver, when there are conditions for it, and it is an electronic delivery. Specially regulated delivery at home, delivery at the workplace and delivery to the absent person. One of the key newspapers in this bill is a violation order, a violation order that represents a new legal institute to be introduced by this law. The violation warrant found its application in the laws of neighbouring countries, as well as in most European countries where it showed very good results in practice. It simplifies the processing of minor infringements, with a significant reduction in the costs for state authorities, as the perpetrators of the infringements are offered the possibility that in the event of payment of half of the sentence imposed, within the time limit for voluntary payment, they will receive significant savings. A significant increase in voluntary penalties is expected, and thus an increase in total revenue for the Republic of Serbia's budget, based on the collection of these fines. The application of the criminal order will stop the possibility of paying a fixed fine on the spot, reducing the possibility of corruption by police and inspection authorities. In order to obtain all the necessary conditions for its application, together with some other provisions of this law, this institute would begin to apply during the course of the application of the law, one year after the application. During that period, appropriate training of authorised authorities would be carried out and other conditions would be provided for the smooth application of this institute. Infringement orders will give the authorities an effective means of sanctioning minor violations, for which fines are prescribed in a fixed amount. By issuing the order, the authorised authority will directly apply the laws and its powers, given that the order imposes a fine whose height has been laid down in advance by law. For any other infringements for which a fine is prescribed in the range or provided for by any other criminal penalty for which an individualisation of the prescribed penalty is necessary, with an assessment of all concrete expedient and difficult circumstances and facts, the authorities of the administration will be obliged to apply to the competent criminal court for the initiation of the infringement procedure. Unlike the existing law, the authorities of the administration will no longer be able to initiate and conduct criminal proceedings and decide whether to impose criminal sanctions. Thus, the bill went one step further towards bringing the international standards into line with the procedures in which criminal sanctions are imposed by an impartial court, with respect for the procedural rights of the participants in the proceedings, in accordance with international standards relating to the conduct of judicial proceedings. The decision of the European Court of Human Rights states that the International Law does not distinguish between criminal and criminal proceedings, that the conduct of one excludes the possibility to lead the other, under the rule of "No Bis in I go" and that the same legal standards apply to both proceedings, when it comes to the situation and the rights of the accused in the proceedings. In addition to delivery, payment of fines is the second biggest problem of the infringement process. So far, the practice of criminal courts suggests that the payment of fines from natural persons and entrepreneurs is almost exclusively carried out under the threat of execution of prison sentences, and after the procedure of replacing unpaid fines with prison. This often leads to an act of limitations in the execution of fines, and when punishment and charges were imposed, the costs of the proceedings were normally not charged and they fell on the burden of the courts, since they cannot be replaced by a prison sentence. In this way, the replacement of fines has become a regular means of forced collection, without trying to make a real forced payment and whether or not there were real conditions for it. Lately, due to the growing economic crisis, an increasing number of citizens are more likely to agree to a prison sentence than to pay a fine, thus significantly increasing the cost of the state rather than making real income by paying fines. In addition, given that prison facilities are insufficient, there is a real danger that many perpetrators are waiting to be called on for the maintenance of the sentence for the act of limitations, never to endure the prison sentence, while the debt on the basis of fines and costs of proceedings is never charged. With that in mind, the provisions on the mandatory collection of fines and other fines have suffered significant changes in order to strengthen jurisdiction, and with this more responsibility of the criminal proceedings, the criminal court which has imposed the fine, to charge the fine. This law established two unique registers, such as the electronic database of the defendant and the criminal sanctions imposed. The law establishes a register of sanctions as a single record of criminal sanctions imposed and a register of unpaid fines as a single record of unpaid fines and other fines awarded. Registers have been introduced for centralised records of all criminal sanctions and perpetrators, which so far did not contain precise and unique records, as well as for keeping records of unpaid fines and other fines awarded, and for their more efficient collection. The provisions of the laws governing the registers are made up in accordance with the principles of the Personal Data Protection Act, taking into account the objections made by the Office of the Trustee for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, which are set out in the Working Party for the Construction of this Act during public debates. In this regard, the law contains provisions on the introduction and establishment of registers, on who is the controller of data in the register, and on who is the data processor, which is the purpose of the register, who will have access to data from registers, who will be able to use data, how much data they will store, as well as other necessary provisions. Finally, I would like to thank you for your attention and to express my hope that after the debate in the principles and details of the National Assembly, the draft law on violations will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21318	Thank you. Do any of the representatives of the motionors want a word? (No) Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do any of the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups or the president of the parliamentary groups want a word? (Yes) The word has the messenger of the people, Laszlo Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21319	Madam Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from the opening presentation of Mr. Minister and from the explanation of the bill we had the opportunity to realize that a year and a half of a day worked on this bill. As far as our parliamentary group is concerned, I can say that our assessment that the Ministry has drawn up a good bill. The fact is that on the Justice Committee this law is supported in principle unanimously, but of course it does not mean that there are no numerous amendments and there will be no critical assessments. In all, it does tell us, however, that at least in principle there is one significant consensus on both the importance and the content of this bill. Mr. Minister spoke in detail about many of the solutions made by this bill, or a new law on violations, about many new legal institutes, about a number of changes in the infringement procedure, and I don't think there's any need to repeat anything that's already been said. It may still be worth paying attention to or undermining the fact of the disastrous situation as to the percentages of criminal sanctions committed. This condition or these indicators, I believe, are unknown to the general public or have been unknown so far. The fact is that in Belgrade and in some central Serbia cities, the percentage of sanctions imposed is 15%, and in Vojvodina is slightly more, about 30%, which is twice as much, but one and the other figure is catastrophic. So it really deprives the existence or conduct of misdemeanor proceedings. This percentage may be below the percentage in which the TV subscription is charged, so it really tells us that there was an extremely great need for the Law on Infringements to be amended, or in a formal sense to pass a new law on infringements. I'd only talk about a few questions that may not have been mentioned so far or that Mr. Minister didn't look back on them or, in part, did. On the one hand, what's important to us is the affirmation of a criminal penalty of public interest. We think it's about time and it is time for this punishment or that sanctions to be applied much wider than the practice that we've been doing so far. There are many arguments why it's good or why it would be good. The rules that regulated this sanction have been amended and it is indeed our hope that work in the public interest, after the adoption of this law and the application of this law, will be brought to life in practice. It's certainly one criticism of this issue of work in the public interest, but the problem, at least by reading the law, is the fact that regardless of the intentions, I have no doubt, but reading the law in the text does not result in the fact that a clear priority has been put in place between these sanctions. So if you're looking at article 33 of the law, then the order of penalties is next -- prison, fine, work in the public interest. If you're looking at the next members, then the order is different -- first goes to prison, then work in the public interest, then fine. When you look at a member who regulates the exchange of fines for prison or for the penalty of work in the public interest, then the prison sentence again enjoys some priority, because in some case, it stands first. It is not a fundamental objection, but this was an opportunity for a legislator, and we, as a legislator, to set priorities for fines, public-interest work and prison sentences. As far as the second question is concerned, and there will certainly be plenty and lots of controversy about it, it's a question of obsolescence. We can support this solution to extend the date of limitations, relative obsolescence to two years, and absolute obsolescence to four years, but we think that this should really be like a transitional solution and that this is clearly said. It is probably not in the law to write this, but to say that the legislator has no intention to provide for such a long period of time. The European trend certainly doesn't go this way. In many countries, the relative ageing period is six months in criminal proceedings, and we will have two years. We really do have an understanding of the catastrophic state I was talking about, but I repeat again – as a transitional solution. We have submitted one amendment to the bill. That amendment concerns Article 94(2). That member of the law regulates the language of the infringement procedure. In that article, the legislator left one rather ambiguous formulation of whether the court has the possibility, in cases where it is otherwise mandatory to conduct proceedings and in the languages of national minorities, whether the court has discretion or the possibility to decide otherwise. In that sense, we have submitted the amendment. Otherwise, we have already drawn attention to this issue on the Justice Committee, we have submitted the amendment and some other parliamentary groups have submitted an amendment. The bottom line is that this question is asked in an unambiguous manner, therefore, to avoid the possibility of any interpretation, because in Serbia, unfortunately, different interpretations are also practice, as a disastrous assessment of the enforcement sanctions in the infringement procedure. For this reason, it would be good if this amendment were accepted and if a clear rule were simply laid down for the official use of the language and the letter of the minority, in infringement proceedings as well as in all other proceedings, of the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters. That's what we proposed with this amendment of ours. I would take this opportunity since this amendment refers to the official use of language and letters to draw the attention of Mr. Minister that, through the National Council of Hungarians, we have provided an initiative to find an obligation to develop a new law on official use of language and letter in the Action Plan for the implementation of the Justice Reform Strategy, since it was practically your idea at the National Assembly session in response to my discussion. I hope that document really finds this commitment. This amendment of ours and this question is proof of why it would be good systemically to resolve a new law on official use of language. Therefore, the official use of minority languages in all proceedings – criminal, litigious, misdemeanor, etc. I would take this opportunity to draw attention to one of our legislative initiatives relating to the area of criminal proceedings. On March 8th, we submitted two draft laws – a bill amending the Law on Public Order and a proposal to amend the Criminal Code, with the aim of defining petty thefts, so, thefts under 5,000 dinars, are defined as violations. So far, neither the government's positive nor negative response has arrived. Since a new law on violations is being passed today or these days, since we will have a new legal framework in a few days, at least as far as the infringement proceedings are concerned, I think it would be good to consider this initiative. In particular, I would draw attention to the link between our initiative and the ministry's goal of expanding the application of public-interest sanctions, since many small-time thieves cannot be demoted by either fine or prison penalty. The fine cannot be charged, the prison sentence for many of them is not a sanction, but working in the public interest for small-time thieves could also be a good sanction. For that reason, I'd like to draw your attention to that one more time and ask you to really consider it. Probably the ministry is responsible for one law, the MUP for another, but that makes one package. I'd like this question to be on the agenda at one of the next sessions. Because, believe me, the appearance of petty theft in many villages has become one everyday phenomenon. I'd like to say a few more words about the second point, which is connected to this point, which is the decision on the election of judges who are first elected. I would like to express our satisfaction with the fact that among the three judges elected in Vojvodina territory there is one member of the Hungarian community, which is certainly important, for practical reasons, for reasons of respect for the constitutional principle which speaks of the proper representation of minority communities in state bodies, etc. On this occasion, I would like to draw attention, and that was the last time I spoke about an inadequate system in the Judicial Academy, from the entrance exam, through training, to the end of the process when the election of judges comes. In fact, the current system, established by the Law on the Judicial Academy, does not contain an affirmative measure compared to minority communities, but one, perhaps the most impoverished term, is hidden discrimination. When the average from the university makes a significant part of the results of the exam, and in situations where the languages of certain minority communities are significantly different from the Serbian language and when students from those communities at the beginning, in the first, second year of law schools simply cannot achieve good results because first they have to master the Serbian language and then the professional terminology of the Serbian language, so later we only come to build, there I would like to draw attention once again to this problem. This problem or this issue will certainly arise if not at the beginning, then during accession negotiations with the EU. In this case, if the Constitution defines one principle, i.e. it contains one guarantee under which minority communities have the right to adequate representation in state bodies, including in judicial authorities, then all other laws that treat a particular area, in this case, must assist that objective. This objective is to achieve adequate representation of minority communities in the judiciary. As I said, the Law on the Judicial Academy contains one system, one mechanism that means destimulation, instead of an affirmative system. It is not a question for today, but it is certainly a question for someone not far away, a future time, because this question, once again, will surely be found on the table because, simply if the Constitution contains one guarantee, it contains one important principle which is a European standard, then all the other laws that originate in this area must have the same or identical aim. Today's decision, therefore, to choose judges who are elected for the first time means certainly one important and good step in this direction, but regardless, it is certain that the time will come and when the Law on the Judicial Academy is changed, and then this question that I was talking about should also be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21320	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mirna Kosanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21321	I would like to point out that the current Law on Violations was adopted in November 2005, but that it began to apply after four years of adoption, with two amendments being made in 2008 and 2009. The proposal for a new law on violations was made in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights and Jurisdiction of the European Court of Human Rights and other applicable international documents, and that is, among other things, the reason the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support the adoption of this law. The new law is needed in view of the need to amend a large number of existing legal norms, as well as the need to adopt new, more modern legal solutions. . The most important reason for the adoption of such a law is certainly the continuation of the start-up of the reform of the criminal law. Since it has been noted that several tens of thousands of infringement cases become obsolete annually mainly because of the obstruction of parties which are widely allowed by the applicable law by the parties. Such a large number of unfinished and unfinished cases poses a major problem in the work of misdemeanor courts, both from the point of view of the efficiency of the work of the courts and in the meaningful economic impact on the Republic of Serbia's budget. In addition to what is already stated, in the current practice of misdemeanors, difficulties arise most frequently with regard to calling and ensuring the presence of accused and other participants in the process in too short time to act in the very poor procedural discipline of the parties, in the negative authority of the applicants to initiate a misdemeanour procedure and proceedings before the court, in their actual lack of interest in the successful outcome of the proceedings, in the problem of the processing of foreign natural and legal persons etc. For these reasons, during the work, the Working Group conducted interventions in 220 members of the applicable law. Some new institutes were introduced, some new chapters, while some chapters were left out. This draft has a valid law. The basic structure of the existing law has been retained, adding new ones and erasing unnecessary chapters of the law. What the papers are, they're e.g. the criminal liability of the legal person, which was necessary to prevent the practice of amending legal persons from avoiding criminal liability or the obligation to pay fines through changes in their status. Then it's like a newspaper, a work in the public interest, whose precise arrangements actually create conditions for this sanctions to be applied, which is undoubtedly useful for both the perpetrator and the country itself. Correction of existing limitation deadlines in that the deadlines are extended from one to two years, i.e. in the case of absolute obsolescence from two years to four years, will certainly produce adequate results. For, the short period of limitations is regularly highlighted as the reason for the act of obsolescence either of the criminal prosecutions or of the limitation of the execution of a criminal sanction. It is the court's obligation to establish the material truth and was, in fact, amended by the provisions of the law, the burden of proving the nature of the offence and the criminal liability from the court to the applicant's request to initiate the offence. In the present procedure, the overall burden of proof was actually in court, which led him to an extremely unfavourable situation, since the court is facing the proverbial inactivity of parties in the proceedings, with frequent avoidance of reception of calls or occurrences at hearings. By introducing the basic rule that the party is, in fact, the one who is obliged to obtain evidence whose implementation is proposed significantly improves the procedural discipline of the parties, given that it is undoubtedly in the interests of the parties to obtain evidence in favour of their claims in order to protect the presupervision of innocence, as well as in order to respect the principle of equality before the court, the court may obtain evidence in favour of the defendant if he is not able to do so himself. Delivery is also much better regulated by the current law than it was by the previous law. The letters shall be delivered either through mail or through an appropriate service authorised to deliver, and the possibility of competition shall be introduced as a way to raise the overall level of performance of the delivery. A new delivery method is introduced, when conditions exist, let's say e-delivery, which so far has not existed. Of course, proper technological equipment is required for the court's electronic delivery and for the electronic address. Specially regulated delivery at home, delivery to the workplace, delivery to the absent person, delivery, or the possibility of delivery via the court’s advertising table, which also did not exist. The possibility is avoided that in some cases personal delivery may be made through an advertising table. What was also introduced as a rule, it is that the court can order the party to call and ensure the presence of witnesses whose hearing was proposed. Therefore, the possibility and obligations of the court to the party, i.e. the one who has actually started and initiated the procedure, are being moved. The failed delivery is one of the biggest problems of the misdemeanour process and the total problems of our judiciary's work, especially in large cities such as Belgrade, Novi Sad or Nis. The percentage of successful deliveries did not exceed 20%, leading to an unwarranted length of procedure, to the frequent occurrence of obsolescence precisely because of the inability to carry out delivery and inability to start and conduct the procedure. For these reasons, special attention has been given to these provisions, and all with a view to detailed arrangements, to improve, to reduce the possibility of abuse to some minimum and to avoid the possibility of reception, delaying proceedings, and the possibility of avoiding criminal liability. What's the paper in the law is a violation order that represents a new legal institute that is introduced by this law. It simplifies the processing of minor infringements in a significant cost reduction for state authorities. As the perpetrators of the offence are offered the possibility that in the event of the existence and payment of half of the fine imposed within the time limit for voluntary payment, significant savings for the overall income of the Republic of Serbia's budget are being made, as the number of penalties paid voluntarily increases. The application of this institute will put an end to the possibility of paying a fixed fine on the spot, and this is again about reducing the possibility of police and inspection authorities corruption. The basic characteristic of the law is the sanctioning of minor violations for which a fine is prescribed in a fixed amount. I must add that the new law established the possibility of forming two unique registers, both electronic databases of defendants and of criminal sanctions imposed. In particular, the law establishes a register of sanctions as a single record of criminal sanctions imposed, as well as a register of unpaid fines as a single record of unpaid penalties and other fines convicted. These registers were introduced for centralised records, and in accordance with the principles of the Personal Data Protection Act, taking into account the observations made by the Office of the Trustees for information of public importance and protection of personal data, which the Working Party had given its observations and certain suggestions which were certainly on site and which were accepted as such. It is characteristic and commendable that everything that has been laid out so far in this law for these reasons will be supported by the SDPS. The very definition of a violation that now includes both natural and legal persons is in accordance with the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes. In terms of institutes such as The necessary defence, extreme necessity, force and threat, legal error, is being brought about by equalising with criminal legislation, which was, in fact, the intensity of the adoption of this law. Infringements of new provisions of the law can also be carried out in an extended period of time in a situation where a person with a unique imagination makes more and more time-related acts of violations that make up a single continent at the same time. The existing safeguard measures, which are imposed together with the penalty for the offence, imposed two new protective measures, which are mandatory psychiatric treatment and the measure of animal abduction and the prohibition of the keeping of animals as another measure in the situation of animal torture, which was adopted in accordance with the Animal Welfare Act. Of course, this mandatory psychiatric treatment is given to a perpetrator who commits an offence in a state of incompetence and in a situation where there is a danger that he will repeat the offence. In punishing older minors, the prison sentence is moved with a 15-day new prison sentence of 30 days, which means double the possibility, i.e. giving legislation the opportunity to impose a double lengthy prison sentence for a minor. They certainly deserve particular attention to the provisions of the laws relating to the limitation of the initiation of proceedings and the execution of penalties, which are actually provided for in a double-long amount, i.e. in double-long deadlines from year to year to year and from two to four years. For the sake of greater efficiency in the proceedings, it was necessary to amend the provisions applicable, as I have already pointed out in the delivery, so that the possibility of not being mandatory in any case for personal delivery, so that it can be imposed on the party itself, means without the participation of the court, which will again reflect the costs of Serbia's budget, to ensure delivery and thus to regulate and deliver to absent persons, as well as the possibility of, say, raising ourselves in writing in the court's seat within a certain time period after which delivery is considered to be done neatly and the procedure can be initiated or the procedure can be continued. What is even more characteristic, which must certainly be made, is that the conclusion of an agreement on the recognition of the offence is introduced, until a first-degree verdict is made as set out in the Code of Criminal Procedure. In order to increase the impact and improve the results of the overall infringement procedure, it is possible to adopt an enforcement solution after the expiry date for voluntary execution. This means that, when the offender is left with a time limit for voluntary execution and he is deaf to that time limit, or does not carry out voluntarily what he is ordered to carry out, follows a mandatory enforcement procedure which, in order to achieve the purpose of the proceedings, will decide whether to replace himself with a prison sentence, whether to replace the measure of work in the public interest or perhaps by collecting from the account or blocking an account depending on who committed the offence. In any case, the provisions of the law on enforcement and security will be applied accordingly. We believe that the proposed solutions are both good and new and those given as new and changed solutions, so that judicial reform is an important priority of the Republic of Serbia to prepare the entire legal system for new challenges, and in line with European standards and values, all in order to successfully implement the change of the normative framework, we believe in the SDPS that the proposed text of the law should be fully supported. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support the proposed solutions, as we believe that the results that will be achieved amongst others and the application of this new law will increase citizens' confidence in the judicial system, which is in any case the goal of both our parties and our countries as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21322	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Veličković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21323	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on violations in front of us is an emergency through the necessary and fundamental reform of the criminal justice system in the Republic of Serbia. As stated by the authorising officer in the light of this proposal, in the judicial reform process, the most extensive systemic step has been made in the matter of criminal law, primarily by the fact that infringements from the jurisdiction of the state administration have been translated into a judicial system, respecting the relevant provisions of the ratified international conventions, under which the responsibilities and penalties of legal entities can only be decided in the proceedings before impartial and in the law of the established courts, which constitutes the implementation of the obligation contained in Article 6. European Conventions on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Article 32 The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. However, so far the legal solutions governing the criminal matter, including the current 2005 Law on Infringements and the particularly applicable rules of the infringement procedure, which were essentially not changed at the time, simply did not correspond to the growing dynamics of social relations but also certain circumstances that occurred, which are specific to our country, the lack of awareness of citizen residence records strengthened, the economic crisis and the like. As a consequence of all this, we have the fact that the percentage of penalties imposed is voluntary, which is the lowest in the entire judicial system by force in this area. According to the 2012 work report, from 31 January to 31 March 2012, this percentage of execution, for example in Leskovac in the city, is 23.7%. When this is added to the fact that the offences are socially harmful, which citizens most often do unlike, for example, criminal acts and which, in the mass of such acts, take first place, and that by obsolescence or inability to enforce the imposed sentence by the state for such acts, it is obvious that in public and among citizens, there is an impression of an inefficient and inefficient state which is unable to enforce its own laws in an adequate manner. In this way, the indirect prevention of criminal acts, as a purpose of punishment, is contained in the relevant provisions of this and other procedural laws, which are shown to be both mockery and ridicule, and in those whose law should protect remains a bitter impression of the lack of an adequate mechanism of protection of their rights and interests. At the same time, the inherited system of distinction of various types of criminal acts and the very existence of specific rules, which regulate them as well as the special courts that are acting on them, which, in our opinion, should suffer serious changes, has led to major problems in practice. The existence of violations of criminal offences and criminal offences as criminal acts differing between the subjects of the perpetrators, the rules of the proceedings and the authorities responsible for their processing had their justification in the earlier socio-economic and legal system, but in the meantime, as our legislation and the legal system are in line with the solutions in the legal systems of the EU countries, it is now beginning to be an unnecessary burden. In addition, the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which distinguishes crimes and crimes, such as that in the explanation of the promoters and noted by its decision in the Maretti case against Croatia in 2005, found that the European Court found that punishing the same person for the same adverse event both in criminal and in criminal proceedings constitutes a violation of the principle of ban on the same person being tried twice for the same act. This case has had far-reaching consequences in our legal system, since it has led to many cases, especially in the area of criminal acts with elements of violence and in the area of road safety, in the case of parallel procedures for both offence and crime, and one of them has been regularly suspended. This poses a real danger since it has often occurred that a person avoids criminal responsibility because the criminal court finds him guilty, so the criminal court must suspend the proceedings. In this way, the perpetrator who is truly committing a greater social danger pays a criminal penalty and thus avoids a threatened prison sentence for a crime. The law now under consideration seeks to remove these shortcomings and possible effective conduct of criminal proceedings and enforcement of criminal penalties. We have before us a comprehensive text of the law which has suffered serious changes in those points which are serious and studio-based analysis of experts and relevant institutions, which they recognise as critical, and which should contribute to increasing the efficiency of the work of courts while protecting the rights and interests of all participants in the process, but also to achieving the declared purpose, i.e. the objective of criminal punishment, which is a greater degree of respect for the law and a reduction of the number of violations. The key amendments made by this law are contained in the provisions governing the liability of legal persons for offences, the more thorough regulation of public service in the public interest as a type of criminal sanctions, periods of limitations, the conduct of the procedure for the execution of sanctions imposed, the replacement of the investigative principle in the conduct of the proceedings, better regulation of the rules of delivery of calls for decisions and other acts, the introduction of an institute of criminal order, the enforcement of criminal penalties and the establishment of two registers, the register of criminal sanctions imposed and the register of unpaid fines. The law, in a much better and more thorough way than the previous one, regulates legal liability for violations. Article 27, for the first time in the offence matter, lays down the fundamental responsibility of the legal person for the offences and that the legal person is responsible for the offence committed by his or her body of management or by a responsible person or another person who was authorised to act on behalf of that legal person and, in the provisions of that Article, to clarify those actions. In addition, it is found that in the event of a legal person’s termination, the procedure can be continued according to his legal follower, which undermines the current practice of management operators to avoid liability and punishment by eradicating companies from the register, resulting in the suspension of the procedure. Working in the public interest, as a form of alternative sanctions, has also been introduced into our 2005 criminal justice system. Until today, however, he did not live to the extent necessary, taking into account the purpose of punishment, contained in the relevant provision of this law, i.e. the expression of social rebuke and the influence of both a specific individual and a society in general, that they do not commit violations. This institute represents one of the most punitive sanctions for this kind of punishment. We are witnessing the fact that the resolution ministry is taking appropriate measures to allow for the maximum application of this sentence, by law enforcement courts, as double benefit is achieved in this way. The state releases the costs of a convicted person's stay in prison, while on the other hand it receives a free workforce that can be used to do business in the general interest, primarily in local communities. In this respect, and the relevant provisions of this law specify that when a court determines the penalty of work in the public interest, it must take into account the type of offence committed, age, physical and working capacity, mental properties, education, tendencies and other specific circumstances relating to the person of the perpetrator. I would therefore, in cooperation with the institutions that need this work, refer to those jobs that best correspond to its personal properties. The law doubles the limitation periods of the conduct of the infringement proceedings and the deadlines of the enforcement of the criminal sanctions and of both relative and absolute obsolescence. In fact, from previous practices and more than obvious that because of a number of procedural provisions, which the accused persons have frequently abused, as well as because of the overloading of courts, a large number of cases cannot be properly completed within the deadlines set so far. As a result, there are too many outdated cases, which have never welcomed a judicial end or the execution of a sanction imposed. In that sense, the law where it doubles the time needed to perform the relative obsolescence, the initiation and conduct of a misdemeanor procedure from one to two years, counting on the day of the infringement, with the fact that obsolescence is interrupted by any action taken by the competent court and re-emerges, but in any case, absolute obsolescence occurs when four years have passed since the day of the offence. The same time-limit is also foreseen for the limitation of criminal penalties and safeguards imposed. We believe that this timeframe has been taken together with the proposed changes in the structure and course of the procedure, quite adequate, both for the judicial end of the proceedings and for the execution of the infringement itself. In contrast to the executive principle present so far in the conduct of the proceedings, under which the court was obliged to establish the material truth, and to decide, by its official duty and by its own means, which evidence is to be carried out and to order their implementation. The new law provides for the introduction of the so-called law. "The Prosecution Principle". Such a solution is in line with the solution adopted in the law on criminal proceedings, and the main objective is to transfer the burden of proof from the court, which has so far been the main and almost only active participant in the proceedings, whether it is a public prosecutor, another state authority or self-damaged. The trigger of the proceedings, i.e. the promoter, is hereby required to propose, in the application for the initiation of the infringement procedure, the carrying out of evidence and, at all times, actively participates in the procedure for the inauguration of the indictment. The Court of Justice shall only be empowered to order the execution of evidence in the event of a conflict of evidence or the need to clarify certain facts. The practice has shown that such a solution is necessary, since the largest number of infringements are initiated at the request of authorised state authorities, who do not take active part in the procedure and who finish their part of the work by submitting requests to initiate the procedure, and then the whole process falls on the court's burden. The delivery of calls, decisions and other acts of the court is generally the biggest problem of all judicial and administrative proceedings, as well as of criminal proceedings. Namely, the largest number of obstructions and abuses of procedural rights by defendants occur precisely at this stage of the procedure, by the defendant avoiding reception, seeking to delay the procedure with a view to leading to the limitations of criminal prosecution. In this regard, the law seeks to make it more restrictive by laying down rules on delivery to allow the court to, in cases where the accused is obviously being obstructed, the same law-abiding rules. This introduces the possibility of delivering acts, which have so far been required to be delivered to family members, or to full-time members of the household, with the provision to refuse admissions by them, identified by the delivery made, with a note on the delivery note. It shall also be arranged to deliver to the absent person by allowing the same address of the dwelling to leave a written notice, leaving a certain time limit for its download, due to which the delivery is deemed to have been made. Also, in the case where the defendant has a bumper, the delivery is carried out solely by him, taking into account that it is a legal professional, i.e. a lawyer with responsibility to his client under the provisions of the relevant law. The key paper introduced by the law is the Institute of Violation. An offence shall allow the authorities of the administration, who, when carrying out official controls or otherwise, detect the execution of the offence, to impose a fine if such a penalty is established by law in a fixed amount, leaving a period of eight days for the payment of the sentence to the perpetrator. Also, the specificity of the criminal order lies in the fact that the perpetrators themselves would be interested in paying the fine imposed, because the penalty would be at the level of half of the person who was threatened by law if they paid the same salary within an eight-day period or at the level of the law-prohibited penalty if they paid until the start of the ordinary proceedings before the court. In addition, suspected perpetrators, to whom a criminal order has been issued, are left with the possibility that, if they are not found guilty of the offence imposed on them, a signed criminal order for delivery to a competent criminal court with a possible written defence, which would then be considered a request to initiate a criminal proceedings, thus opening a regular criminal proceedings before the court in which the applicant would request, the authorised authority of the administration, would have to prove the guilty, and accused of presenting his defence. At the same time, when it comes to misdemeanors issued by foreigners, stateless persons or domestic citizens leaving the Republic of Serbia, as well as in the event that this was done in the control outside the settlement, e.g. in the case of traffic control of road users, it would be possible to charge an official on the spot at postage costs, with the obligation to pay the amount charged to the corresponding public revenue account after returning to the official premises or the next day. This solution is in line with the already established practice in countries in the environment and in certain European countries, and thus significantly accelerated the infringement procedure, taking into account that this institute is particularly adapted to that group of offences that participates in the structure of the overall infringements with almost 50%, and these are offences in the area of road safety. Accordingly, and taking into account the predetermined obligation of the Republic of Serbia to regulate the substance of the offence in accordance with the accepted standards of international law, under which it falls within the jurisdiction of the courts, it is necessary to exempt from the authority of the administration the conduct of the infringement proceedings. This includes transitional provisions of the laws imposed by the authorities of the administrations which have so far been responsible for the conduct of the proceedings, which primarily refers to police administrations, tax administrations, customs administrations, foreign exchange inspectorates, as well as the resolution ministries, to draft amendments and amendments to the law providing for provisions on the criminal penalty and jurisdiction of those authorities for the conduct of the infringement procedure and to provide for a higher number of offences in which penalties would be fixed in order to enable the full application of the Institute of the Criminal Order. Also, as one of the key newspapers, the establishment of two registers – the register of criminal sanctions imposed and the register of unpaid fines – is being introduced. The purpose of the first register is to record the persons who have been fined from the influence of measuring the person who has already been punished for the offences, while the purpose of the second register is precisely in the better payment of fines, because issuing public documents, permits, registration of licences, other than those related to the personal situation of the citizens, would be conditional upon the previous settlement of penalties imposed, which is already a practice in many countries. We are therefore facing a law that, in a very thorough way, with the application of modern institutes that have been experienced by experience of practice and by comparing solutions from other countries, seeks to increase the efficiency of the system of criminal punishment while at the same time seeking to increase the quality of judicial decisions and protect the rights and interests of participants in the process. With that in mind, I think it should be supported in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21324	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21325	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the State Council, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry of Justice, but it seems to me that there is no authorised representative of the Supreme Council of the judiciary here, so we can discuss this, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Council, Mr. Minister, we have this united joint joint joint investigation of several legislative proposals, the election of judges and prosecutors at the first judicial, or public prosecutorial post, as well as the election of a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency. We have nothing against this united joint debate, but we have some concerns about the authorised representative of the High Council of the Judiciary and we believe that today, when we talk about candidates to elect the first judicial office, we should still talk to the authorised representative, since even here, in this synopsis, we are scheduled to have a representative of the High Council of the Judiciary and that is Mr Dragomir Milojevic. But as far as I can tell, he's not here. Mr. Minister, as far as this draft law on violations is concerned, essentially this law meets the standards of quality legislative proposals and, in essence, if you are some of our amendments that we have submitted, in that case we might consider whether we will vote in the day of voting and vote in favour of this bill. So, the main objection to this draft law on violations is that it's too restrictive. So, as if you've been consulting with the finance minister too much and you've kind of agreed on how to supplement the Republic of Serbia's budget, well, here's how this new law on violations has been found. We see here how you think you punish even witnesses if they refuse to testify, they don't respond to a call or anything. So one witness is under threat of paying a fine of 50,000 dinars. As far as the defendant is concerned, the defendant will also pay a large fine if he gives some incorrect information. It simply conflicts with some principles that are so clear and with the Code of Criminal Procedure where somehow the accused should not be held accountable for some of his actions to defend himself in criminal proceedings, and since this law on offences is very similar in some of his own solutions, the Law on Criminal Procedure, I think you should have made sure that you do not discipline the defendant in this way. It's too much punishment, Mr. Minister. Indeed, there are too many penalties provided for as fines. Cash fines for a natural person from five to 150 thousand dinars. It's a huge range. For legal persons from 50 to two million dinars, for entrepreneurs from 10 to 500 thousand dinars. So, this entrepreneur definitely closes his private business in case he commits some rather insignificant offense. So the fines are huge and we think that should change. In this regard, we have tabled certain proposals for changing the proposal for these legal solutions. As far as the Law on Infringements is concerned, it was time to pass a good law on violations so that the procedure would indeed become more effective, rational, in order to reduce the suffocation that occurred for a variety of reasons. One reason was that this existing law did not allow for much more effective and simple conduct in infringements. However, we have the slightest problem with this bill. One more thing, Mr. Minister, I read somewhere that your ministry has proposed some 19 laws within its work cycle, which have passed through this parliament. I think it's small and it's not a very good time for you, given the character of those laws. So it's mostly about amendments and additions and 19 laws in a year, it's one and a half laws. Even that ministry could have worked a lot harder, and it's even a grudge for this government, that it talks a lot, and it works a little bit, and it's a little bit more real than it promises or almost nothing. So we expected far more elan, far more work, and so we actually got one marketing move in terms of boasting about the adoption of 19 laws. Mr. Minister, let's go back to this proposal by the High Council of the Judiciary, given that there is no one here from the High Council of the Judiciary, I simply have to address you, and you are also part of this High Council of Justice, so you will most likely be able to give irrelevant answers to all the misunderstandings that we are about to make here, and especially that you are part of the executive authority and that you are responsible for the work of the entire judiciary. The work of the High Council of the judiciary can be very well defined in this, because as soon as the election of new judges is proposed, and it is not found appropriate to come to Parliament and to explain this proposal, I think it says a lot about the High Council of the Judiciary. Mr. Minister, you laughed very sweetly when I mentioned that you were part of the executive government, and that you were responsible for judicial reform, and it wasn't a small matter, really, and I think that you are also carrying a great responsibility. You're carrying on really, because we shouldn't lie to each other. Therefore, we should not lie about how concepts, programmes are being made and how plans are being made for judicial reform, to fight corruption, and how it is actually thought to change the current bad situation both in terms of the situation in the judiciary and in terms of high levels of corruption, organised crime, so all of what is a fundamental issue for the functioning of a rule of law. You see, Mr. Minister, the High Council of the Judiciary had two sessions, May 21st and 28th 2013, if you didn't know. Those decisions have certain differences on the candidates proposed for the selection of judges on 21 and 28 May. So, in March of the month, on March 6th more specifically, an ad has been called for the election of judges. So 15 seats are scheduled to be filled. On May 20th, the proposal was for it to be 15 candidates, but on May 28th, the decision changes with another candidate and you now have 16 candidates now on May 28th. So one candidate more than what was planned by the ad. So that's inadmissible. If the High Council of the Judiciary is such a serious judicial body, it would probably be okay to make sure that the procedure respects it, so if it opens an ad for 15, then it will consider 15 candidates, then it will consider its proposal to the Assembly in that sense to bring it into line with the announced ad. So that's already a serious problem with the High Judiciary Council. Then, here it is projected and requested that the High Council of the Judiciary propose, the National Assembly, by emergency procedure, consider the motion for a decision and order of the legal members. Why the emergency procedure, Mr. Minister, when we already have twice as many judges as the European standard? You're about 1,000 judges back in the judiciary. So, Mr. Minister, where do all these judges work? Do you know, Mr. Minister, that you have judges who also receive both wages and pensions? Do you know, Mr. Minister, that the network of courts has not been changed? So twice as many judges and maybe even more than the number needed for an existing network of courts. We expected that by the start of the summer you would certainly complete all these drafts of the law and the Law on Judges and the Law on Regulating Courts, on a network of courts, etc., however, you obviously have kind of expanded it for a better time, but you hurried to choose new judges in such a strange way. The explanation that the Assembly will sign, to confirm that the vote is that the High Council of the Court of Justice, when proposing candidates, particularly had in mind that there are vacant judicial seats in the New Sad Court. So, no relationship ads, no matter the procedure, we call it 15, we get 16, one here or there, it doesn't matter. This is a compromise of these judicial candidates, this is a question of the validity of the overall proposal of all these candidates for the election of judges. So, in what way do you think, Mr. Minister, to make it possible for courts to work more efficiently, if with this scandalous decision of the High Council of the judiciary you appear here in this House and you expect parliament to vote on such nons, which is an integral part of the reasoning of the motion for a decision. Indeed, this is a parliament, and indeed it is a legislative body and a representative body, and we simply cannot allow ourselves to think that there is still some dignity of the Members and this congregation building. So, Mr. Minister, only if this proposal is read, you have a complete argument as to why this House does not vote this proposal of the High Council of the Judiciary, and it may be funny to you, it's really not funny to me, and besides being sad, I find it worrying, because if you have, for this reason, if you have replaced Nata Mesarevic, the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, if you have received 600 judges in the ranks of the Serbian Progressive Party and then incorporated them into the judicial system, by having them returned, then Mr. Minister, it's far from funny, it's a very big problem for the Serbian judiciary. A very big problem is this, Mr. Minister, that the Supreme Cassation Court decided at its last session on April 26th this year not to support those candidates that were presented to them, and in terms of forcing those candidates to finish the Judicial Academy. So, the Supreme Court of Cassation has come to the conclusion that the Law on the Judicial Academy and, specifically, its Article number 40, is not in accordance with the Law on Judges, is not in agreement with the Constitution. Moreover, it is an apriorization of candidates who have been trained by the competent authorities of the Judicial Academy, who in no way is part of the High Council of the Judiciary, by being admitted and admitted, which means that they were already elected as judges when they went to the Judicial Academy. There's no more High Council of the Judiciary, no more Parliament. It's an automatism. It's something that's conflicting with the Law of Judges. That's the problem, Mr. Minister. Instead of starting to change the laws and agree on the best intentions and best EU standards, you somehow always choose the wrong path. Don't tell me, Mr. Minister, that it's the European Commission, that the Venice Commission was so much for the Judicial Academy. Look at your laws and see to what extent these laws are problematic when you disqualify over 400 judicial assistants who have not completed the Judicial Academy and who do not have the opportunity to apply these provisions directly to be elected judges. It would have been much better if you had previously solved the question of the Judges Act, if you had solved the issue of the Judicial Academy, found the right solution and then decided to choose new judges, since you really have a large number of judges. You really have a judge now. Why, then, in this year's time, this efficiency has not increased to that extent in the judiciary, in Serbian courts, if these conditions have been met, as far as capacity and numbers are concerned. Mr. Minister, these are serious questions. If you're dealing with the judiciary, in that case you can't be superficial and you can't predict certain things to that extent. If you insist on respecting the laws, respecting procedures, isn't it most normal for the High Council of the Judiciary to show that will to respect the procedure? What are we going to do now, Mr. Minister, if the Supreme Cassation Court finds that there are certain problems with the choice of judges? What if we find out we have one more candidate? Are there any elements that might suggest that there might be a lot to think about, among other things, about someone's political will? There may also be elements of corruption. Let’s see what happens when you present it this way and suggest one of these decisions for congregation adoption.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21326	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21327	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will first refer to the topic that led me to the National Assembly as a representative of the proposing, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to talk about the draft law on violations. Before that, I have to look back at something that happened here in the previous discussion all the time, during which I laughed, when you hear from the MP, and even a graduate lawyer saying things that are against the constitution, saying things that don't stand, saying things that have been recited by some past 10, 15, 20 years ago, then sometimes you smile. In the end, it is sad and I can agree with it, it's really sad enough of what's heard. First of all, the draft law on violations. It is said – too restrictive the law, as if we had agreed with the finance minister how to fill the budget, and then after that, the penalties that are foreseen are very sharp. Anyone who wanted to sit down, to read, to make sure, would see that the fines were prescribed by the applicable law, would see that those penalties have been valid for the fourth year. So sit down and read what is in force today, and see what is proposed, advance it, and speak well in the congregation what is true, and not what is not. He says the defendant is being punished. Of course, but say it to the end – the accused is punished when he gives false, or false information about himself, not about the offense, but when he is lying. Do you think someone shouldn't be punished if he's lying? I think you should. A witness who does not respond to a call, who does not respect the court, should be punished and how to punish himself. But it doesn't occur to me to come forward here on behalf of the High Council of the Judiciary, because in that capacity I didn't come. That's the first thing. Secondly, thank you for your compliment if you think I'm so powerful that I can manage nine people who are adults, experienced, professional people, in this business much longer than I am and come forward on behalf of all of them. Like I said, I didn't come here like that. What is unconstitutional and what is said here, which I smiled at, says: you, as an executive authority, are responsible for the work of the judiciary. Who can say that for work? After that, there was correction, so it was said: reform. We tried to make up a little bit. It's said "work." You can get an insight into the transcript. He says, "I am a representative of the executive government, responsible for the work of the judiciary." Sit down, read the Constitution. The Constitution says very well who is responsible for the work of the judiciary. As a graduate lawyer, as someone who graduated from the University of Belgrade Law School, I worked there for a while, and I have my opinion and my opinion as a lawyer does not have to commit, but I would be happy that Serbia really did not choose this one test path to regulate justice, so, let's say, as in developed democracies, such as in Germany, Austria, the Czech Republic, to appoint judges as justice minister, and then to minister for that and answer. In Serbia, it is not such a situation. Maybe in the past it was actually like that, so it's another relapse of the past that's been going through this whole discussion. What is the European standard for the number of judges? Give me that European standard. It doesn't exist, because judges in Spain and judges in Sweden and judges in Serbia do not do the same work in Moldova. In Spain, a judge comes from three to four judicial assistants. They're writing the verdict. He's just doing her final correction and saying this can or can't go. It's not the judge's job in Serbia. According to this standard, which the Council of Europe Committee places as some standard on the number of judges, but it is very relative, by that standard, for example, one Slovenia has three times as many judges as the standard. Be honest, so say it. If you ask me honestly, based on the data, the estimates we have at our disposal, the Republic of Serbia needs a judge and all relevant data points to that. But there is no European standard that will say how many on the 100,000 inhabitants comes the judge. I mentioned Slovenia. Slovenia has the most ex-Ju space, then Croatia. Only third place is Serbia, and both countries I mentioned first are EU members. I suppose it would be appropriate for them to meet the European standard. They're expected to be finished by the summer. The laws, proposals, or draft laws have been completed for four months. Why aren't they in the National Assembly? It's a special story already. I'm extremely pleased to hear someone in words pushing for European values, and then completely denying it through the story. It is not because the European Commission has blocked the adoption of these laws with its opinions for the time being. For what? Due to the political issue number one in Serbia, which is the issue of KIM talks in Brussels. I openly say that to the citizens of Serbia, citizens have the right to know that, because we said that in the spring these laws will be before the MPs. Were they? They weren't. Is that beyond the reach of our powers? We could have done that, but it would have had many consequences, and then those who are today calling for European values would have jumped first for doing so. There's something I have to say that's completely coaxed out. He says 400 judicial assistants. That's not true. In Serbia, 1.527 judicial and prosecutorial assistants work. Among them are a large number of extremely good, professional, capable personnel. When the Law on the Judicial Academy was passed, it was brought in as some kind of "ex specialise". I didn't work on his work, nor did I propose him, but I joined the minister when the law was in force. There was one sentence, it says – look at your laws. There are no laws here or your laws, these are the laws of the Republic of Serbia, which bind us all, and we are all obliged to act. When you're already presenting the information on the number of candidates proposed for the election, then be honest with me until the end. You know, half-truths are the most dangerous things in the world. If you want to tell the truth, tell it all, not half. I am proud that as a member of the High Council of the Judiciary last week, I could attend the session when judges were elected for the first time since 2009. 21 judges were held in the Administrative Court, the Court of Commerce and Appeal, so in Administrative Nine, in the Court of Commerce three and nine other judicial vacancys in commercial courts. So a total of 21 places. Out of nine seats in the Administrative Court, three seats were attended by judges, six seats were proposed to the National Assembly to elect six advisers from the former Supreme Court, today the Supreme Cassation or Administrative Court. At least a year of counseling staff has a candidate who is an eight-year adviser at the Supreme Cassation Court and has the highest number of people at 13 years of age. The undivided opinion of the judges is that these advisers may be more professional than some judges, and they are suggested to be elected. Watch out, relationship six to three, two-thirds of the counselors, one-third of the judge. When it comes to business courts, out of nine vacant seats in business courts in Belgrade, Pancheva, Somboro, Subotica, Novi Sad and Valjev, nine seats in five judicial assistants, four judges. I think it says something very positive. Of course, for the Commercial Court of Appeals as a second-degree court, as a court of the Republic rank, however, people from economic courts who have a judicial office are elected. Come on, be fair and honest once and turn the medal to both sides, so when it's good, say, that's good. It is said that through these provisions, although I say that I will not cross that line and will not comment or comment on this item of the agenda that I am not invited to speak of here, but I am called responsible for respecting the law adopted by this National Assembly. It is precisely the EU that requires the "favorisation" of candidates who have been through the initial training of the Judicial Academy. It is the EU's only positive assessment of the Judicial Academy in the previous judicial reform to the end and unequivocally. This time, the candidates who signed up for the Judicial Academy two years before I joined the minister's office. So, two years before I got into office, these people signed up for the academy. Do you think I could have influenced their admission exam, the criteria of their choice? Probably as much as you do, but I'm confident -- and less than that. When it comes to the draft law on violations, please sit down and read it better. If you say - the accused is punished, in what case is it punished? It's not about the offense, it's about when it's telling the wrong information about itself. If you say the law is restrictive, take something in orderly world practice. We didn't do it here, and we didn't do it because of the difficult economic situation in which Serbian citizens live. Look at the rate of inflation four years ago when changes were made and complemented by the applicable Law on Violations, how much it was in the previous four years, what was happening, and it was somewhere to expect that the amount would be increased and fines. It's not done. Violent courts are the courts most citizens of Serbia face most often. They must be the face of the efficiency of the judiciary. The reality in Serbia's criminal judiciary is completely reversed. I am convinced that this bill will improve this reality and that efficiency will improve it. This is where I, as minister of justice and state administration, can influence the efficiency of the judiciary, to propose a better legal solution through the government of the Republic of Serbia that will allow the judiciary to work later on. It's, maybe, the only thing you were right about. I think this law makes one step in the right direction to increase that efficiency and come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21328	The word is Nenad Konstantinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21329	The chairman, you have injured a Member of 107 because you have been obliged to warn the minister who insults the dignity of the Assembly, insults all MPs sitting in this assembly because he speaks to them in one demeaning way and with indignity. For the first time, I have to admit for five years to attend a situation where a minister, waving his finger and threatening to speak to a national MP, is saying that someone here should sit down and read the law, read the Constitution, learn that what the MP says is funny, or that it's sad that the MP says it. I think you need to warn the minister, who is young and is the first time in this role. He must know that the Assembly is elected by citizens of Serbia and citizens, and the Assembly is elected by the government and the Assembly by the government, not by the government to control the assembly and what the MPs say. I ask you to remind anyone who does not behave in a dignified way in the future, especially the minister, when he is speaking in violation of the reputation of the Parliament and of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21330	I don't think I've hurt Article 107. The Rules of Procedure, because the minister was in charge of the MP. That's your impression, I didn't have that impression, let me have different impressions about it. So neither did I see the minister waving his finger, I really didn't see that moment. If it is, I'm asking the minister not to do it anymore, but I really didn't see it that way. I think the minister was very reasoned with the MP. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21331	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I'm really glad that you finally realized that fines should be reduced. So today we're talking about your bill, the bill that's on the agenda, not the old law. Today we are talking about the fines that are part of this bill. I'm glad you realized that those fines are high. That's okay. But, Mr. Minister, you haven't answered one clear question. You are a member of the High Council of the Judiciary by office, Mr. Minister, I have addressed you as a member of the High Council of the Judiciary because I had no one else to address from the representative of this decision of the High Council of Justice. That is the problem, Mr. Minister, that you are part of the executive authority and as part of the executive authority you have entered the controversy with me on the content of this proposal, which comes from the High Council of the judiciary from another branch of the government. So much, Mr. Minister, for reading the Constitution, for reading the law, etc. You know what, I understand that you're a young man and I will simply accept this young man of yours, how can I tell you, the lack of some respect and decency, but I cannot see through your fingers, Mr. Minister, when here as Minister you address me as a MP. So there must be respect in that kind of collage. Here, these two minutes on your 15 or 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21332	The word has been made by MP Vuceta Toskovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21333	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, have been injured. 107th and 108th. - disrespect for the dignity of the National Assembly. This is Article 108(1), says - the work at the National Assembly session is being taken care of by the president of the National Assembly. The previous speaker was so disdained by the minister and the ministry that it cannot be accepted here in the Assembly. So much negative energy in that word of hers is that Tesla can't accept that energy at one point either. So she had to react to the LDP lady's exposure, because she always sees a great evil in a man, and she doesn't see a thorn in her eye. It was supposed to react immediately to the discussion. Mr. Chairman, you weren't here. I think it is unworthy of the LDP MPs that they are the only ones who are smart and that no one in this assembly or in Serbia is smart anymore, but only they suggest some solutions that are with Sorbonne, I have an impression, you've been passed and you've graduated from law school there. I'm not gonna ask you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21334	Even though I didn't chair, I have a need to explain. Please, you still have to expect MPs from the opposition party to be unable to praise the law. In the heat of these discussions, I agree, they cross some line of tolerance, but let it still be acceptable in some way. The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21335	First, I'll look back on that -- my two minutes on your 15 minutes, my 15 minutes were on your 20 minutes. As for respect for the dignity of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I am absolutely convinced that none of the citizens of Serbia voted in favour of any of you, nor of us that you elected in the executive power to be false here. Notorna is false, who has not heard well, is notorious, three times God helps, it is not true that the minister of justice in Serbia is responsible for the work of the judiciary. Those who say that are not well-known constitutional solutions to the current constitution. I will always react to the untruth, with full respect for this home where we are, as I have done since the beginning. I respect and respect every MP, as a public official, and I believe that MPs have all due respect for the role of the government's representative, whoever he is, who comes to the National Assembly, should return. So, I don't speak to a single moment with words of disdain and I'm very concerned about what I'm saying. Who's got a finger? He's just getting it. It wasn't, nor would it be. As for the agenda point for which I'm not an authorised representative, I said I wouldn't talk about it and I didn't talk about it. I have replicated in the work concerning compliance with the current law of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sorry I overstepped 15 seconds in these two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21336	Mrs Popovic, on what grounds are you answering? (Judita Popovic, from the post: Replica. On whose display are you looking for a replica? (Judita Popovic, from the post: Replication of the minister and the presentation of the previous speaker. ) You can't get a replica on a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You can't get a replica to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you can have the Minister's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21337	Mr. Minister, let's get back to the subject. I was forced to speak to you for that reason, Mr. Minister, because you are a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, and the authorised representative of the High Council of the Judiciary is not here. That is why I asked you – have you decided to change the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and the President of the Supreme Council of the judiciary Nata Mesarović in this way to act? Do you remember we discussed her shift? This is the result of the work of the High Judicial Council. Is this what you wanted to accomplish? As for the mention of God and the rest, Mr. Minister, I remind you that we are a lay state, and here we are the ones who decide, we are the ones who debate and debate. As far as notor lies are concerned, here you go, Mr. Minister, pay attention to everything that the judge's assistants and judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the general session of the Supreme Cassation Court tell you, and then you'll hear a lot of things, a lot of things you'll find out, and you might change your mind about what a notorous lie is. Two thousand and five hundred judicial assistants exist in Serbia, but over 400 thought about it, ran and wanted to be judges in Serbian courts. Mr. Minister, I got a letter from the Association of Judges. So I was just quoting these remarks and their criticisms in that letter to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21338	Just one remark. We're here to discuss the law, not what anyone talks about on the collages. I won't let that happen in the future. So we're talking about the law. What she said, it's none of my business here. He has the word Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go. I apologize to the Minister for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Nenad Konstantinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21339	Dear Chairman, we have a new situation which is why I believe that you have injured the Rules of Procedure if you do not interrupt this session, for the reason that we have heard that the minister is not authorized for two points of the agenda, which are on the agenda today. We can't discuss agenda points without proposing representatives. So four dots are connected to one. He is the Minister for the Law on Violation, representatives of the State Council of Prosecutors for the second point, and there is not one representative of the Proposer in front of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, or those who propose to elect judges and we do not have a representative of the proposing member of the Board of Directors of the Anti-Corruption Agency. So, you're required to interrupt the session until it's ensured that the representatives of the motionor are in the O.R. No one has said one word of these proposals all the time. I first thought the minister was authorized to do so, but he wasn't authorized to do so. So we can't continue the session without a proposing representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21340	I have an official act authorized by the minister to defend the laws of the agenda. The fact that he does not want to discuss the law, I am counting on the minister to use the right to consult the objections or the amendments you make. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21341	So, Chairman, you didn't understand me. The Minister has been authorized by the Violation Act... (Marco Atlagic, from the post: Which member? Who's asking? Marian. Article 27. So, the minister is authorized to law on violations and can talk about it, but he's not authorized for the other two points of the agenda, which are now in order and have nothing to do with the laws at all. So law enforcement can't apply to the agenda of the judge's election, which is on today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21342	I'm in debt for something that's just been said. (President: Please be patient in a few minutes, the secretary has gone to consult. Here you go, Mr. Minister. First, another untruth has been made. I specifically said 1527 judicial and prosecutorial assistants, not 2500. As for the mention of God, here is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, "The Official Messenger", issue in 2007, and finally says – the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia. For that reason, let me stand up and read, who doesn't know. The hymn is called "The God of Justice", wrote Jovan Djordjevic, composed by Davorin Yenko, a play with dancing and a song by Mark's Sabre, performed for the first time in the National Theatre. He says, "God of righteousness, save you from destruction until now, hear our words from now on, and be our salvation from now on. With a powerful hand of water, defenses, the future of a Serbian ship, God saves, God feeds, Serbian countries, a Serb race. ". So much for how forbidden it is here to mention God. I don't have a problem with that. Someone asked me. If you'd listened more carefully, you'd have heard him ask. So, the People's saying -- three times God helps, to whom it bothers, he doesn't have to use it. I say it one more time, and it affects respect when you speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21343	Let me just do the order. The first is Radmila Gerov, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and then Janko Veselinović, then Judita Popovic. Here's Radmil.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21344	I thank the chairman. Article 107, dignity of the National Assembly. We just had a chance to see from the Honorable Mr. Minister reading and quoting the song "God of Justice." Do you, Minister, think we MPs don't know the verses of "God of Justice"? I would much prefer that the opening statement of one 25 minutes also spoke out of your head, instead of reading to us from the paper everything we have in the light of the Law of Infractions, and that as MPs we ourselves were able to read. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21345	Mrs. Gerov, please, when you're advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then you're talking about a breach of the Rules of Procedure, don't rephrase anyone. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21346	Chairman, you have injured the Rules of Procedure, Rule 106 and other provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which are clearly regulated to perform the "God of Justice" anthem at the beginning of the regular session of spring and early and the end of the spring and autumn session. So far, it has been a practice for the anthem to be performed by renowned Serbian choirs. This wasn't at that level, I think the minister agrees with that, so please, the chairman, admit that you violated the Rules of Procedure and that in the day of voting we vote on it, or, if you admit it, we won't vote that you hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21347	I do not think the injured Rules of Procedure is for the simple reason that the minister spoke in a unique way about the mention of God. So I don't see the basis. But we can make a statement in the voting day. As for the work of the Assembly, I received information. The government determines a representative who defends the law in the Assembly. The other agenda points are not intended to be proposed. It's a business thing. Therefore, the Assembly can work legitimately. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21348	So many members, Mr. Chairman, have been injured, that I can simply quote the entire Rules of Procedure now, from Rule 27, and beyond, all with Articles 89 and 107, etc. There's definitely been a violation of the Parliament's dignity. Mr. Chairman, you injured the Parliament's dignity when you evened out the general session of the Supreme Cassation Court, when you evened out the Association of Judges' Assistants with the Towers. You can't treat these institutes that way. That's what this is about, Mr. Chairman. I see you have great understanding about God, but God is not the subject of today's debate, but it is the subject of the choice of judges, Mr. Chairman. To whom shall we address, from whom shall we seek answers to the questions that exist regarding the proposal of 16 candidates instead of 15, for which number is the ad called? What's this about, Mr. Chairman? Has the President of the High Council of the judiciary not dared to come to this House and defend his decision? Did he know something was done that wasn't supposed to be done? Are you aware of the way these people are compromised in advance, which, I really have no doubt, you will choose as judges? Do you know how the citizens will address these future judges?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21349	Mrs. Judith, you've crossed the line. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure, and it wasn't my intention to insult anyone, at least an official institution. However, you said, ma'am, that you'd heard of it, of it, by the offices, etc. You didn't talk about official documents, official memos, etc. Therefore, you challenged me to act that way. You can ask to plead. Would you like us to make a statement in the voting day? You want to do it again? Wait, please, there are others who answered the same thing and you're not the only one here. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21350	Dear Chairman, I point to Article 27's injury. The Rules of Procedure of the Republika Srpska Assembly, because you have not responded to the abuse of procedural powers, specifically the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. These abuses have led to the blockade of the current work of the Assembly because we are unable to continue our work effectively on the agenda, reminders for all MPs here, the only item of the agenda we are now discussing is the Law on Infractions, for which there is an authorised representative, which is the minister of justice. (President: Mr. Jovanovic, please. ( ) As for the decision on the choice of judges who are first elected... Be nice, so let me explain the injury. (President: I won't let you because you advertised that I didn't point to the injury in time. You didn't point to the injury in time. (President: Then don't turn away from the topic now and replicate.) No, this isn't a replica, this is an only explanation, you have no right to interrupt me now. This is an explanation for the breach of the Rules of Procedure because the decision to elect judges, that's what I was going to say, has no reason to have a representative. What is important is that these abuses of the Rules of Procedure are interrupted so that the congregation can continue its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21351	I'm sorry, Mr. Jovanovic, that you didn't seem to follow my reactions. In time, I also reacted to the violation of the Rules of Procedure by Mrs Gerov and by Judita Popovic, even to you. So, I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been hurt. But you have the right to seek and to plead. You don't have to, okay. Who else wants to hurt the Rules of Procedure? The word is Judith Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21352	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You've injured Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure. You just hurt the Rules of Procedure, when you haven't notified a colleague who obviously is either lying or not reading the agenda. (President: Please, Mrs. Judith, I give you a reminder. Here you go. ) Mr. Chairman, further, Article 27. This is actually a real relapse of the past. Whenever the truth is mentioned, whenever you need to give a valid answer, you call on God. Madam Judith, please explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) Mr. Chairman, together with the principle and unique search, is this the synopsis of this assembly? Yes, it is. It would be good for you to read to the MPs what is on the agenda - a bill of violations. That's right. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected for judicial office. Right? Do we have representatives for this point? We don't. Do we have a minister who is a member of the High Council of the Judiciary? Yes, it is. Did the chairman warn me and punish me, but he didn't have any arguments? Yes, it is. Is that how he actually wants to punish himself? Yes, it is. Is that a relapse of the past? Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21353	Mrs. Judith, I'm sorry, you just hear yourself. I explained, I sent the secretary to ask, I wasn't sure, I got an explanation, and so did Neđo Jovanovic, although he had no right to do so, explained that these other points do not require an official, except for the law. Don't laugh, that's right. Therefore, you have not heard and re-advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Radmila Gerov, take care, Mrs. Radmila. I don't like to punish anyone. Take care of it from now on, whoever turns, moves on to the replica... Excuse me, Mr. Markovic is before you. Mr. Markovic, please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21354	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, I answered a long time ago, trying to remind all of us that some of the things that the MPs are for, thank God, have been paid for, for years, the same in the Rules of Procedure. I'm referring to Articles 1, 89 and 96, and I'm willing to read to you, if necessary, special parts, although I hope you do, too, in the meantime. So, clearly, in all the councils, in all the offices, and before they've got amazing facts like, I don't know who worked on this Rules of Procedure, who wrote that the ruling majority must have a majority on the boards, which is really against all the constitutions, so I guess someone who wrote it will never get to the Rules of Procedure to talk. But Article 89 clearly speaks to who may be invited, Article 96 clearly tells who can speak at a session of the National Assembly, and if a National MP tries to deceive the public and citizens by saying – there is no one present to answer me, and this one, and that he, as the speaker of the Assembly, is invited to attend, under Article 89(2), cannot participate in the work at all, so he could nominate or respond. And it's kind of a delusion. Please, and everyone who holds the presidency, that in these situations they react sharply, because it is not the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, but the abuse of jurisdiction and responsibility for work. Secondly, whenever someone, because someone is saying the text of an anthem, knew exactly when and in what form it was created or not, and if someone thinks it's an injury to anything in the state of Serbia, they have the right to believe it, but I don't think they have the right to even press this button, let alone participate in the work of the National Assembly. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21355	Does anyone else advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure? The word is Judith Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21356	Mr. Chairman, I really don't know who's cheating on the public here, so I'm just reading the Rules of Procedure and trying to bring that Rules of Procedure a little bit closer. Article 96 says, "In the basic procedure of opening... (President: Do you, Mrs. Judith, advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure? ) Yes, of course, Article 27 and 96. (President: then explain to me. I'm trying right now, Mr. Chairman. I know it's hard to run a session when we obviously have problems like there are in today's session. "In the basic procedure, following the opening of the principle search of each item of the agenda of the National Assembly, the right to speak in accordance with the next order and time period shall be given by the act promoter, or by the authorised representative of the group of act promoters who receive the word when asked for it and shall not be subject to restrictions on the duration of the presentation". Where's the motion officer here, Mr. Chairman? The motion of the act is the High Council of the Judiciary. Where is this man who will here, an authorized representative, give answers to urgent and serious questions? Madam Judith, you've already advertised it. This is the second time. You can't do the same subject twice. Mr. Chairman, you've deceived the public. This is Article 96. (President: I won't let you. You can call on a hundred members when you say the same thing. Please, finish before I take another step. ) Mr. Chairman, it has been said here a little while ago that an authorised representative of the act's proposing cannot and will not get a word if he asks for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21357	Please, time. The word has Srdjan Mikovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21358	You see, Article 27... . (President: Please, MPs, I must hear that I could answer people. Please slowly. Please give me back my time for 20 seconds. (President: All right. Yeah, 27 seconds. ) Article 27, Article 32, Article 157, 192, 201 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I must say that I am extremely surprised, given that when the principle debate on these four points began, we were obviously led astray, because it was explicitly read this way – do the proposing representatives want a word? Nikola Selakovic, Justice and State Administration Minister Dragomir Milojevic, chairman of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and Zorica Stojsic and Daniela Sidelic, election members of the State Council of Prosecutors. All the presidents of the parliamentary groups, or each parliamentary group, have received this reminder. Is that true, or isn't it true? Or, when the reminder is made up, someone tricked us into Dragomir Milojevic, the chairman of the Supreme Council of the judiciary has the opportunity to address and to have the opportunity to ask him a question. It's either one truth, or another truth. No problem, no matter what you decide, but you can't do this or that. He can't have half the fish, half the girl. Identify yourselves. What's the truth here? Either one or the other. So that Dragomir Milojevic can and should be involved in the debate, or should not, but then, don't tell us that he has the right to take the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21359	Mr. Mikovic, I don't think there's any need to answer, but I understand that it's their right to attend, but that doesn't mean they have to. So, you've been given an explanation, only if you want to make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Do you want it or not? (Srdjan Mikovic, from the post: I will not because of you. All right. The word is Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21360	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've reported for breach of the Rules of Procedure among the first. However, I respect the chairman's decision that the opposition has all the advantages, including the privilege of advertising the Rules of Procedure, but I am not pleased that some MPs have performed several times. I'm advertising members 103 and 108. So point 103.2. Unlike my opposition colleagues, I'll read it, although I'm not a lawyer, but when I read some regulation, I can kind of interpret it in a way that some opposition lawyers can't. "The MP cannot point to an injury in the actions of the president of the National Assembly that has already been indicated." Article 103(2) Mr. Chairman, you have repeatedly allowed the same member to be advertised without previous speakers. So Article 27 has been advertised four times, of which twice consecutively. Let's say, Mr. Jovanovic, Article 27, then Mrs. Judita Popovic, Article 27. Four times the total advertised in this series. So, twice in a row, to allow Mrs. Judita Popovic to advertise the same article twice, 27, and no one had ever spoken before. So you couldn't do any new damage to article 27. I don't know if she meant attitude one or attitude two. It's kind of a harsh abuse of opposition colleagues to try to turn this debate into something other than a debate about judges, laws, violations, etc. Also, Article 108(1). - on the agenda of the National Assembly, the president of the National Assembly. I fully support that you're trying to seduce order, but I also have to point out that our opposition colleagues are trying to take over your jurisdiction and therefore I'm not asking you to vote on this. (Chairman: Time, Mr. Risticevic. ) Here, let me just say that I'm not asking you to vote on it, but still take a little care of it. Give me more space, but not too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21361	Thank you. National MP Radmil Gerov, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21362	Vice President, since you gave me your word one 20 minutes after you interrupted me, to give the word to Mr. Markovic. I'm advertising Article 109. The Rules of Procedure, which is a statement of caution on your part, because you gave the notice to the MP Judita Popovic, without any explanation of article 109, on what basis did you give her a fine and a warning? Since you have a few, not attitudes, quotes, I would like you to make a statement as chairman -- did Judita Popovic come to the speakers without permission? Did she speak before she asked and got the word? Did she use swearing and offensive expressions, etc? By what attitude did you give her a warning? Secondly, I expect the President to hear from you whether you have violated article 109 and I call on article 101. Article 101, which states that you have the right to set a break in the work of the National Assembly session in order to carry out the necessary consultations or obtain an opinion. You sent a gentleman sitting next to you a little while ago, so he had to ask around, and you told us that you had obtained an opinion that he could do without a proposing representative. Excuse me, who'd you get that opinion from? Where's the opinion in writing? Which member of the Rules of Procedure are you now referring to? Who's to say that we can work here without proposing, and these are representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. I really don't see what the problem is to invite a representative of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary to come and explain here to the MPs where 16 judges came from when the competition was 15? I don't see what the problem is.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21363	I'm obliged to give you an explanation. Directly offensively, she pleaded to MP Neđa Jovanovic, directly told him she was lying. Therefore, that is an offensive expression to me, and that is the basic reason why I gave her the warning. As for the rest, I have already given you an interpretation – they have no obligation to attend to this, please understand it once already. Do you require that we plead in the voting day? Good on the voting day, we'll make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21364	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament advertised article 106. Rules of Procedure, Rule 1. Of course, obstruction is a legitimate political tool used in political struggle. One who uses obstruction as a tool for citizens of the Republic of Serbia who expect answers from the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, rather than reluctantly, to suffer certain political consequences. I know that on the political scene of Serbia, people count cards and count truffles. We can't allow that kind of thing... (President: Mr. Babic, you've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I ask you to explain. I'm only asking two sentences, if you'll excuse me. One sentence is that the SNS will not participate in further advertising the violations of the Rules of Procedure. I call on the other colleagues to continue to work, to continue working on the agenda point, which is very important, which is the Law of Infractions. It's something that enlists a large number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and therefore I ask you to step out of this debate. As for the anthem, I advocate the recipe of Sinishi Mihajlovic, but I fear that there would be no more than 50 MPs in the National Assembly who would know the text of the anthem.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21365	Mr. Babico, I'm obliged to ask you if you're asking us to plead our injury. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: No, I don't want to because of you. No, okay. Infringement of Rules of Procedure Janko Veselinović, I apologize. It's hard to make order here when I suddenly have a lot of you. First, Predrag Markovic, then Janko Veselinovic, then Radmila Gerov. The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21366	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In accordance with article 1 of Rule 27 and with the obligations of working time, and once again I say why MPs are paid, as they are paid to learn not only the Rules of Procedure, but also that it, like any legal act, is written from general to individual, to distinguish what the rapporteur is, what is the Proposer, who can speak, what is stated in what part of the act. Please, according to the fact that it is close to 18.00 hours, since the time has not been extended, finish the session two minutes earlier, because, otherwise, authorized in front of the next parliamentary group, that is, Miss Radovic, I think, will not be able to take all 20 minutes. No one has the right to damage the MP, and we must save both the time and the money of this assembly. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21367	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21368	First, I think the chairman of the work was extended, after 18.00, Mr. Markovic was not in the O.R. when it came to that, on the other hand, the work of the National Assembly was compromised, and I'm reporting by article 108. I think we're going to solve this situation the next way, because really the Rules of Procedure can be interpreted in one way or another. However, the minister can declare whether he is indeed authorized to defend it, or to be the authorising officer for all four points of the agenda. So, are you ministers here to explain the draft law on violations, the motion for a decision on the election of judges, which are first elected to the judge's office, the proposal for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor and a proposal to elect a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency. If Mr. Minister has already said... (President: You've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. )......................................................................................................... If the minister specifically says he's not here to explain these two points of the agenda, she really doesn't have a proposed authority. On the other hand, he would really advertise and protest sharply at Mr Babic's words, judging sometimes he doesn't know what he's talking about, and I think you should have warned him that he insulted the MPs. So he can't judge who in the National Assembly knows what kind of "God of Justice" strofu is. That can be said for his parliamentary group, but not for the other MPs in the Republika Srpska Assembly, and thus injured the Parliament's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-17-0.u21369	Dear People's MPs, we finish today's work and resume tomorrow at 10.00 hours. At the same time, I would like to inform you that in accordance with Article 101(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly interrupt this session, given that on Thursday 18 July 2013, the fifth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was called at the beginning at 10.00 p.m. in 2013, at which his Excellency, Mr. Stefan File, Commissioner of the European Commission for Enlargement and Neighbouring Policy, will address the MPs. The suspended session will continue on Thursday (July 18th), starting at 11.00pm. Thank you.
