ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16033	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the session is attended by 111 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 87 MPs present in the hall, i.e. that there are at least 84 MPs present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16034	Thank you, Madam Chairman, I'd like to ask two questions. My first question raises the Ministry of Finance and Minister Dinkic, as regards the issues of restitution, more specifically the issues of substitutions that are an unforgiving part of this law. Unfortunately, as we have the opportunity to see, the inexhaustible part of the law that doesn't work precisely because the substitution doesn't exist. My question is when will the state return property to nature, a very simple question. In particular, I mean forests, pastures and agricultural land that account for 95% of the claims and unfortunately, according to the information we have, no morning country has been returned to the people who seek property seized after World War II. Someone thinks this topic is not important, but I'll remind you it's one of the greatest injustices our people have experienced in the past from their neighbors, the people they've lived with. Mostly the object of such a seizure of property were people who thought otherwise, people who were monarchic detachment and unfortunately, today these people still live as second-class citizens, because they can't restore their country, the country they have, and we all know that the state has a huge amount of land in its possession and unfortunately is not ready to give up that property. There is still no willingness to correct itself, one great injustice from the past, and as different as it explains that despite the law being passed, we today, not only are the countries not returning, but none of the assets being sought and, by our estimates, not one percent of the assets sought for these three years has been returned to the people to whom the property has been taken away. If the problem is the lack of substitution, when it comes to agricultural land, and I don't think it's very easy to convert agricultural land, what's in state property, it's very easy to assess what the country's quality is compared to the quality sought and the lack of substitution cannot be qualified as a problem and the inability to implement this law at the best possible level. In this context, he would ask one question, if the substitution is already a problem, then we also admit that the law we passed in the last term is a law that was meant to deceive citizens, who expected a fair return of property that was taken away. I would also ask the Ministry of Finance, which is a substitution problem, is the Ministry of Finance ready to initiate a change in that context, that the substitution becomes an integral part of the restitution law. My second question is, unfortunately, there has been a lot of fraud in this country, fraud of citizens, and many citizens who have been deceived have never been able to exercise their right, in the way they've been deceived, to give it back before the law and the court. Unfortunately, there are about 25,000 families in Serbia who have bought apartments, apartments in construction or finished apartments, and today's records of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, over 25,000 families, and we believe there are many more who are frightened and who cannot say they are deceived in such a way, can neither get their property nor return the money he has paid. It's mostly families and people who were hard to raise that money, whose life savings. We don't even have a way to address these people in the right way today, let alone damage them. My question is what the state plans to do about these 25,000 people, 25,000 families, who in the worst possible way in the past ten years have been deceived by various quasi investors, mostly, people who have acquired capital in the criminal zone, in order to fertilize that capital beyond the back of people who have for years, decades, gnawed and kept money to buy, solved the housing issue for themselves and their family. I think that the state has completely turned its back on these people and that it is high time, and I ask this question to the Ministry of Justice, Mr Selakovic, that if anything else, the ministry is at least advertising and saying what it is prepared to do, not only when these people who have been deceived, who have received property benefits, but what the state is willing to do for those 25,000 families who have been deceived and who unfortunately have neither the property nor the financial resources that have invested in something that should have represented the future of them and their children.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16035	The word is made by MP Radoslav Komlenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16036	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I asked this question a month and a half ago. I didn't get an answer, and as a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development yesterday, we had a committee and we discussed this a little bit. I would take the opportunity to ask this question one more time, because I think it is very important for the citizens of Serbia. My parliamentary question concerns a proposal to complete the construction of an accelerant installation of Tesla AIT at the Institute of Nuclear Science Physics Laboratory. It's a facility for using ion beams in science and medicine. Its main part is the cycloton of Vinci, which is a mid-size accelerator. What prompted me to ask a question like this is a letter from the Institute of "Vinca" which addressed the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society and the Committee on Health and Family of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 6 February 2013, asking to discuss the problem of establishing a five-camera industrial production for the Institute and their regularity of use on the medical installations of the Republic of Serbia. Two five cameras have been installed in Serbia so far, at the Institute for Oncology of Vojvodina in Sremska Kamenica and the Clinical Centre in Belgrade. However, there is still no radio-pharmaceut production centre in Serbia. That's why these expensive devices are only used when radio pharmaceuticals are obtained from abroad, and the import price is about 600 euros per patient. This price is significantly higher than the price at which it would be produced at the Vinca Institute, which would amount to about 200 euros per patient. Construction of AIT began in November, based on a decision by the government of the Republic of Serbia, which was made on 9 August 1989. On 1 November 2007, the government of the Republic of Serbia decided to suspend the financing of AIT from Serbia's budget and to continue on the basis of Russia's clearing debt to Serbia. By then, the direct costs of building AIT were 14.77m euros, and 10.6m euros were needed to finish the job. From all this, it is clear that it is necessary to build a radio-pharmaceutical industrial production centre in Serbia as soon as possible, especially because it is necessary to install six other five-cameras in Serbia to meet the appropriate European standard. A successful completion and completion of this complex job would allow for a significant increase in the number of accurate diagnosis of the disease, particularly malignant. This would significantly increase both the number of cured patients and the effectiveness of health services in Serbia. On 23 March 2011, during his visit to Serbia, Mr. Vladimir Putin, the then prime minister of the Russian government, said: "We believe that one of the important directions of action is co-operation in the sphere of high-tech areas and I say today, as far as atomic energy is concerned, that we are ready to deliver equipment, build a centre for the production of radioactive isotopes for medical purposes, train Serbian specialists in that area." According to that statement, on 15 June 2011, a delegation of experts from the State Atomic Energy Corporation "Rosatum" Moscow was in place at the Institute of "Vinca". At the end of the stay was signed a Memorandum of Understanding and on the long-term co-operation of the Rosatum Institute in the fields of production, radio-pharmaceuticals and proton therapy, which was related to AIT. Accordingly, the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development issued on 5 June 2012 the task to the Institute, together with the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina, VMA and KBC "Bezanijska Kosa" Belgrade, then the Kragujevac Clinical Centre and the Nis Clinical Centre, to create an elaborate on the establishment of the production of a five-camera radio pharmacist at the Institute, which would include a proposal for an appropriate project. On 8 August 2012, the Institute of "Vinca" and the five mentioned medical institutions handed over the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development and the Ministry of Health to the requested elaborate on the establishment of industrial production of cyclotrophic radio pharmaceuticals. This document contains a proposal for the structure of an appropriate project called "science and medicine with proton beams". The preliminary time necessary for the implementation of the project is 36 months. The first and second parts would last about 15 months, and the third parts of 21 months, totaling 36 months. The money needed to realise the first part of the project is about nine million dollars, the second 20 and the third 23.6 million dollars. On 15 November 2012, it was held in Moscow... (President: Time. ) Let me just say one more sentence, the meeting of the Intergovernmental Committee, where the final proposal has been made and the project is drawn up by 30 April. My question is for all three ministries, the Ministry of Finance, Education and Health, as long as it has reached the realization of these demands in terms of the enormous benefits that Serbian citizens would benefit from in the treatment of the most severe diseases, but continue to develop science and technology of the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16037	Thank you. The word has been made by the MP Dr. Ivan Bauer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16038	I thank the chairman. I would like to request two notices from the government of the Republic of Serbia, although I suppose it concerns the Ministry of Finance and Business, given that the mandate of forces has changed in the new government, I am not entirely sure that the issues are exclusively for the finance and business minister. Yesterday I visited the municipality of Koserić and talked to Koserićans and found out about the many problems that bother me, who I believe and many other citizens in the Republic of Serbia, I do not believe that anyone will be surprised when I ask these questions, or when I explain why I am asking these questions. The municipality of Kosjerić with unemployment of more than 25%, which is official data, with an economy completely destroyed by privatisation, has, behold, been ranked on the basis of the official classification by the competent ministry as a developed municipality, in rank, for example. Belgrade and Novi Sad. I believe that it is also clear to citizens, who are total laymen, who are not even understood in the elemental economy, that such classification is a complete nonsens. In order not to be misunderstood why I am suddenly worried about Kosjericans, I must tell you that similar complaints on this classification were made by citizens of Aryl, Odjak, Backa Topola and Dimitrovgrad, municipalities located on all corners of our country. For the sake of informing citizens, you need to know why it's important. This classification is not just some classification that has no special meaning, but something that affects the net inflow of funds in these municipalities. It also affects other types of aid that do not have to be directly financial, we can say non-financial aid, but have indirect financial consequences for these municipalities. So, given that this methodology based on which municipalities are classified cannot possibly be "Holy Letter". I don't see why it can't be subjected to some kind of revision from time to time, or changed, and I would even say that this classification would have to change continuously, given that the conditions change continuously. My question is, what methodology does the DOJ use? What factors are used in the classification of cities in a given category and with which weight, and does the competent ministry intend to review that methodology and, if it is intended, when it intends? The second question, i.e. other information, refers again to one conversation I had yesterday with the president of the Association of Malian Koseric End Association, which has a very vivid name, which, I would say, best paints the importance of raspberries for agriculture, the export of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, their association is called Red Gold. I am not sure that all the responsible, or responsible persons in our state administration fully understand the importance of raspberries for agriculture and exports of the Republic of Serbia, unless, of course, the external trade balance should be reduced and the external trade deficit should be reduced. On the other hand, there is little work to do to help the raspberries organise better, to strategically come up with what the raspberries will do for at least the next five years, which is very easy to do in conjunction with scientific and educational institutions in Serbia. I have proposed to the raspberries to establish a cluster, so that, with the help of scientific and educational institutions, with the help of the country's financial support, with the help of the EU's financial support that defines these funds and which are available to our country to direct them to the development of clusters, which would significantly strengthen the position of our raspberries, so strengthened, united, they appear on the foreign market themselves, and not always through some intermediaries who, of course, take what our people say "kaymaka" and leave a small share of the profits. What was devastating during this conversation I had with our raspberries, but for which it wasn't the raspberries, but it was the state's fault, is that on the question – what is your goal, where you intend to find yourself five years from now in terms of production growth, in terms of investment in infrastructure, and that will go with buying your own freezers, for example; they didn't have an answer to that question. They have no answer to that question because the state does not help them properly. For example, as an illustration of the fact that the state is not helping them properly, I can tell you that, let's say, the data on clusters in Serbia is on the site of the non-existent economy ministry and regional development. They're from 2012. So I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia whose jurisdiction are we clusters now? Is anyone in any way concerned with this extremely important topic for our country's development? I would also like to ask if the Serbian raspberries are thinking of protecting themselves as an authentic brand on the world market, or are we waiting for someone to take it away from us, like they took our plum, ajvar, and who knows what else? I thank you and I'm sorry I kept talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16039	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Miljenko Derret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16040	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, my question is addressed to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, i.e. Minister Krkobic, who said in his interview with the IMF that savings in the area of social giving cannot be made because all users are at the very edge of poverty. One would say that it is indeed one legitimate concern for all growing numbers of those seeking social assistance against the budget that remains the same, if not smaller. That concern would be justified and indeed welcomed if it were not, unfortunately, only on paper and that practice is not exactly the opposite. Although a new Social Services Act was adopted in April 2011, this law cannot be applied because of 44 accompanying documents, which was the obligation of the ministry to pass in these two years, only 13. Among other things, no Regulation on the licensing of organisations which, other than the Centre for Social Work, can provide social services, i.e. civil society organisations. This licensing rule has not been brought in for completely understandable reasons. The first is that social work centres don't want competition. Secondly, qualifications are required so that only those who have gained experience working in social work centres can meet these criteria. So it will be, people, they are already persons who form their organizations and register as new users, i.e. what they should do for state wages at social work centres will work overtime as part of a civil society organisation. Of course, users suffer in all of that. I have to say that it's one of the most escalating examples of what politics and these governments are, and it's also the previous ones, which is that what is passed as a law reformist, under quotes, is actually trying to obstruct one continuous delay of the inevitable. So that law and those regulations must be passed. Those accompanying documents must be brought in. It's an obligation that's been late for over a year. On one issue, we spoke to the ministry in March this year, when we were told that a licensing document was being drawn up and that it would be brought very soon. That was a month and a half ago. I have the impression that each of these regulations is written as a doctorate, not as one document that can be done quite safely within a month and a half, and within two years more than certain if there is a good will to do something about providing quality social services to an increasing number of users whose layoffs daily their needs are increasing. We can wonder here what's behind it. Moreover, on the one hand, there is a lack of money, and on the other hand, the unpreparedness of institutions to really undertake reforms that are necessary and one absolute responsibility that they work in state services towards the obligations they have. It's a liability to the users. In this case they are marginalized groups, they are socially endangered categories of the population. This irresponsibility is, among other things, a question of morality and a question of the system of values that exists in this society. My question to the ministry isn't when they'll be bringing those accompanying documents, because the date they're going to tell me is completely non-binding. My question to the ministry is this – why haven't these documents been brought in? The second question is, who was given this as a work assignment for the state salary he receives, and why did this man or that person fail to carry out this task, and what disciplinary measures against those persons who sit in safe jobs, under quotes, will they bear? Those are questions I'm interested in. In these 15 seconds, I could extend this to the Ministry of Education, which also did not change the law on the recognition of diplomas, which was their obligation, nor did it implement the work of the Simeon recommendation and recommendations of the Anti-Corruption Agency on the printing of textbooks. So these are two ministries that don't meet their legal obligations. I'm asking them to come to their senses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16041	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Slavica Saveljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16042	Thank you. Madam Chairman, the honourable representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a question for the Minister of Justice and the State Administration. My question was initiated by a problem which, primarily by estimating the interest of its city and citizens, brought together all parties in Batocina, regardless of whether they are ruling or opposition. Since 1966, there has been a municipal court for the territory of the municipality of Batocino and Lapovo, a territory where more than 30,000 inhabitants are gravity. The current judicial reform, which apparently was based more on quantity than on quality, after 33 years of existence, abolished the municipal court since 1 January 2010, and established a judicial unit operating within the Kragujevac court. So, the Batocina court has been working as a judicial unit since 2010, by keeping the litigation out of the park room and verifying service, while criminal cases and investigations have been transferred to the court's jurisdiction in Kragujevac. Four judges and 15 others work in the Batocina court today. The court unit has eight equipped courtrooms, three intern offices and volunteers, a equipped office with special offices, a court security area, a reception hall. What's more important is the annual processing of between six and six and a half thousand cases as part of this judicial unit. The draft law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors provides for the abolition of this judicial unit, and the committees of the local parliament unanimously reached a conclusion on this proposal of the law and directed it precisely to the competent ministry and the minister of justice, asking the restoring ministry for the judicial unit to be detained in this place, because the abolition of institutions is indeed born and justified fear, especially in small areas. That's how life in one place starts to turn off slowly. I'm just going to remind the citizens of Batocina and Lapova, by abolishing the judicial unit, that they would have to cross over, to solve their problems, in both directions over 70 kilometers, in order to be exposed to very large and material costs, unnecessary waste of time, and not to say that in special courts they are so overbooked a courtroom, that they wait very long at the hearings, while all the time in Batocina there are very good conditions for organized and secure work. My question is, in fact, the question of local committees – is there any possibility of keeping a judicial unit in Batocina, because people in one territory are being detained if they have work to do, if they have school, church, home of health, pharmacy, court and other important institutions? Given that this is not only the problem of Batocina, but that it is in the same problem as Topola and many other cities, I fear that many other institutions, important institutions, will eventually come under attack, and that there will not be only some places and villages in Serbia, but also central Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16043	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16044	The respected presidency, the institution of asking parliamentary questions under Article 286, has been completely unthinkable for a long time. Last time I asked the question, I pointed out that on several occasions I had asked parliamentary questions and that no case had respected Article 4, Article 286, that the time limit for an answer was 15 days. Please, Madam Chairman, intervene and all the questions we've asked are answered. I asked a question as early as November, what about the backlogs of workers across Serbia? In Nis there are five thousand of them, in various other cities there are many more. The government passed the regulation, it was due by the end of the year, until March of the month. It's May's month and there's nothing. What's up with that? I want to get an answer. I also asked about Fiat. To this day, I have received no answer. I ask you to respect Article 286 so that we can even have the sense to ask questions. Otherwise, this is pointless. My question today will focus on government activities to mark important dates in Serbia's history. This year has been 1700 years since the establishment and signing of the famous Milan edic, when Emperor Constantine declared Christianity an equal measure. The state of Serbia has been at the highest level to celebrate these 1700 years. Even the President of the Republic is the sponsor of the 1700th anniversary of the Milan Edict. Various events occur at Serbia's level, which is commendable. Serbia should mark this date. However, apart from the geographical definition that Emperor Constantine may have been accidentally and possibly accidentally born in Nis, there is no other connection between Emperor Constantine and Serbia, nor with Serbs, nor with our history, nor with our culture, religion, tradition. At the same time in the two 2013s, 900 years since the birth of the creators and founders of the modern Serbian state and the entire dynasty that later ruled Serbia, Stefan Nemanje. To this day, neither the government nor the President of the Republic nor the competent ministry, I assume that this is the Ministry of Culture, has launched any initiative in a decent manner to mark such a significant date. It's not 760 or 880 years. This year it ends 900 years since the birth of the creator of this country. This year is also the year 200 years since the birth of the largest Serbian poet Negos. On this point, the state of Serbia has not taken a single step to mark such a significant anniversary to this day. Serbian President Matica Dragan Stanic said in his latest interview in "The Evening News" that three extremely competent and responsible institutions of this nation, not only of this country, were SANU, the Academy of Science and Arts of Republika Srpska and Matica of Serbia, proposing and offering a whole large, well-designed programme of celebration 200 years from the birth of Negos. Even the President of the Republic and the Patriarch supported this proposal, but the government of the Republic of Serbia has not taken a single step to establish a committee for the celebration of 200 years since the birth of Negos, nor has it adopted any programme. When the Government of the Republic of Serbia thinks and does it even think it marks such significant dates? Will it also be when they will form organisational committees for the celebration of 900 years since Stefan Nemanja was born and 200 years since the birth of the largest Serbian poet Negoš? Also this year is the anniversary of the birth of one of the largest Serbian writers Milos Crnjanski. There's nothing going on about that either. In recent months, almost incognito or should I say semi-secret or rather shyly convey the musts, i.e. the remains of the royal dynasty, the last Serbian king from the only authentic dynasty outside of the Hamburg and English dynasties, which is the Serbian dynasty of Karadjordjevic. I ask the question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia whether these moves and ignoring these important historical facts have begun to fill the point of the 6th imperialist German ultimatum, which is a change of consciousness, complete oblivion, because according to the genius Matija Bećkovic, we are more spineless today than ever and only if we do not remember anything and if everything falls into memory then we will have a chance to be admitted into some of their society. I think it's embarrassing for this authority and I demand that these important dates be marked in a decent manner.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16045	The word is by MP Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16046	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a question for the finance minister. Yesterday, in Strasbourg, the second-degree body of the International Court of Justice in Strasbourg reached an important verdict, he confirmed a first-degree ruling in which Serbia should pay war veterans a certain fee. The type of these fees may not be as important as the height and how this will affect the republican budget. That is why I ask the finance minister after I have asked this question several times over the past period, as well as how the state of Serbia will implement the International Court of Justice's decision, since we know that the decisions of the court are carried out relatively quickly and qualitatively, and these are several hundred million euros. We know there is no such money in Serbia's budget. We also know that the legal representatives of veterans who also exercise executive powers, above all in the town of Nis, talk about lawyer Aleksic, propose various models and these models are not known in our legal practice. With this likely the state of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance will be forced to find a model of how to repay war veterans with cash? My question for the finance minister is how and how will the state of Serbia implement the decisions of the International Court of Justice in Strasbourg? The second question I have to ask is in some way the first question for Mr. Stefanovic, president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. When will Mr Stefanovic put on the agenda a bill on martial law that I handed over nine months ago to the Serbian Parliament and which is currently in the procedure? Why is this question now asked? Because if we had passed that law five, six or nine months ago, today we would not have had this burden coming from Strasbourg on the burden of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia is the only country, and I have pointed out on several occasions, the only country created by the disintegration of the former SFRY, which has no law on martial law, but is subject to the rights and legal basis of 1998 and a certain regulation. I don't think by passing the law we'd have this problem like we probably wouldn't have a problem with military pensioners whose over 70,000 lawsuits currently stand at the door of Strasbourg. They will come back here because they are discriminated against by other members of the army and will come for their claims from the budget of the Republic of Serbia that we see these days, and everyone says, at least those who work in the Treasury, that through the Treasury they are blowing up, that there is no money for budget users either, that there is no money for organisations that have signed contracts with the relevant ministries, and I am talking about NGOs. Contracts don't run. I personally know of several organisations that have already filed charges and sued the state of Serbia for not implementing the contract, etc. One complex substance when it comes to military veterans. It would all be solved by one good legal solution, and when it comes to these other judgments, I simply ask these questions and hope for a quick answer. Time is alarming and time is leaking, and people are looking for their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16047	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16048	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have four different questions. It is common to all four that they show one absolute incompetence of the current government. The first issue concerns the Prime Minister and the competent ministry, or the competent ministers, and concerns the fact that 14309 people have been out of work since March of this year alone. It's from some account I just did 317 a day. We've come to the historic maximum of the number of unemployed workers who are capable of 792.888 people currently out of work, almost 800,000 people. In the previous month, in April, inflation was twice as high as planned in Serbia. I didn't mention that information, and I don't have that in the public sector in the meantime, there's been an increase in the number of employees. However, I would like to get from the government the state of the number of public sector employees whenever they have taken over the mandate and what it is now, that is, when it comes to the number of employees. I'm asking the government, given that their goal at the time of entry was to stop unemployment and eventually, to reduce the number of unemployed to 10%. Given that the number of unemployed is now 30% and that we are at the European summit, what does the Prime Minister, what is the whole government, or the competent ministers, plan to do on this plan? The second question concerns the application of the Agricultural Encouragement Act. Meanwhile, the conditions and means of credit support for agricultural holdings have not been adopted, so that the law is not being implemented in that part, so I ask the competent minister when will a regulation be passed? On the other hand, we have a question from farmers from the top region, or Vrsca, that they have received a solution for the 2012 war production subsidy, but that they have not received payment. I just can't believe these subsidies weren't paid. The third question concerns the consequences of the Law of Amnesty. Namely, the Amnesty Act, brought by the assembly, the parliamentary majority, the ruling majority, and proposed by the Serbian government, should be released from prison by 4.350. I ask the competent ministry, above all, how many released prisoners in the meantime have committed crimes, specifically in that response, to address the serious crimes of murder, rape and robbery? We are witnessing that the general situation and security in the country have been reduced, that the number of crimes has increased, so please answer this question, because we have indicated in time that this law will be very bad. So, what does the government do about resociation? One question that probably interests all the citizens, all the people who notice things around them. This morning, traveling from Novi Sad to Belgrade, I saw a hard-core Serbia. I saw the highway around which the grass is about a meter. It is similar on regional roads and other highways, which the previous government did, so please answer from the Government – when will they do something about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16049	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16050	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will ask four questions. The first question was addressed to the Minister of Construction and Urbanism, Mr Ilic, and it concerns one part of the refugees in the local integration process. In the past 20 years, three and a half thousand housing facilities have been built to address the housing needs of refugees. The May 2010 Refugee Law, its amendments and additions, allowed 3,000 families to receive the right to buy these units. That right, unfortunately, is not allowed for 530 families. These are families whose apartments were built by means of the Italian government through the so-called so-called "Italian government". The SIR program or the refugee integration program, as it's called. A 10-year-old was signed a Memorandum of Cooperation between the Italian and Serbian governments, where it was said that out of 530 apartments built by the Italian government, 40% will receive the right to buy, 40% will remain on the lease, and 20% will be subsequently set. However, mentioned in the Refugees Act, these 530 families from seven cities, and these 86 apartments in Nis, Kraljev, Kragujevac, Čačev, Pancheva and the Municipality of Stara Paz, have been discriminated against, along with our coalition, the Association of Refugees for five years leads the fight to treat these families as well as these 3,000 families. There have been more attempts towards the former Minister of Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, Mr. Dulic, to address this problem. We didn't make it. The formation of the new government sent a request to the competent minister, Ilic, to finally resolve this problem. Indeed, Mr. Ilic showed his understanding and on 20 November 2012, he sent a letter to six mayors and president of the Municipality of Stara Paz, in which he asked the mayors of six cities and the president of the Municipality of Stara Paz to equalize these 530 families with these 3,000 who have the right to ransom and finally resolve the issue. Unfortunately, from November to this day, that question has not been resolved. I ask Minister Ilic to further engage himself with representatives of six cities and the Municipality of Stara Paz, to finally get those 530 families the right to ransom and to be equal in their rights under the Refugees Act. I will now ask two questions to the Commissioner for Refugees Vladimir Cucic. The first concerns the process of legalising illegally built buildings in Croatia. The deadline for submitting applications for the legalisation of illegally built buildings in Croatia is 30. 06th of this year. A large number of refugees were not informed of the fact. I ask Commissioner Cucic's question - will the Commissioner for Refugees launch one media campaign, with the aim of informing all interested persons, that it is 30 June to submit a request? Otherwise, the threat threatens if they do not submit, that the competent construction inspections in Croatia will bring down illegally built buildings. The procedure is very simple. It is enough for our countrymen to apply and pay 70 kuna stamps, i.e. 10 euros, and thus satisfy the necessary conditions that they have entered the procedure. This is when I call on our countrymen who have illegally built facilities to use that deadline and to apply for the legalization of illegally built objects. The second question, Commissioner Cucic, concerns the process of rebuilding broken houses in BiH. The BiH Human Rights Ministry extended the deadline for submission of applications for rebuilding destroyed houses until 31 August this year. In the previous period, very few people submitted these requests. Also, Commissioner Cucic's question – will the Refugee Commissioner launch a media campaign to make a large number... (President: Time. I'm done. ... that a large number of refugees from the Federation of BiH are informed about the fact and that they have submitted demands by 31 August for the reconstruction of houses? The requirements are on the website of the refugee human rights ministry. Also, interested persons can address refugees in any municipality or city in Serbia, where they have forms to fill out and send recommended to the BiH Human Rights Ministry in Sarajevo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16051	Thank you. Mr. Babice, on what grounds are you answering? By accident? Yeah. All right. Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. We would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Zlata Đerić, Dubravka Filipovski and Milica Dronjak. We continue our work and move on to a joint single search on proposals from Acts 12, 13 and 14 of the agenda. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for decisions referred to in points 12, 13 and 14 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs. You've got a schedule of time per MP's group in the material. I am asking the MPs' groups, unless they have already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the Proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the discharge and appointment of members and deputies of the RIK members, which was submitted by the MP group LDP, the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the parliamentary group of the URS and the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the parliamentary group DS. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96 want to do so. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I conclude a joint single search on the proposals for decisions referred to in points 12, 13 and 14 of the agenda. I would suggest that we continue the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW CONSIDERING that the minister is absent, if you agree, can we continue, or do you want to stop and take a break? All right. [[Pause.]] We'll take an hour off. I hope then we can ensure the minister's presence. [[after breaks]] We continue with the work of searching in details according to the first item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Railways. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that in the light of the search in detail on the First Point of the Agenda of the Law on Railways, I have called for the sittings of the presence of Dejan Lasica and Mirjana Trifunovic, assistant minister of traffic. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs Miroljub Stojčić, Momir Stojanović, Donka Banović, Gorica Gajic, Milica Vojić Marković, Aleksandar Pejčić, Stefana Miladinović, Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik, Dragana Andrić, Ivana Dinić, Dejan Kasalović, Laslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic, Ivan Andrić, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta, Milan Lapčević, Mirna Kosanovic, Ivan Bauer, Milisav Petronjević, Neđevanović, Zoran Radenković, Dejan Radenković, Olgica Batić, Petar Škundrić and Saša Dujović, as well as well as amended the Committee for Physical Planning and Telecommunications. You have received a report from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. I remind you that, in writing, the amendments were withdrawn by the MPs: Bojan Kostreš, Đorđe Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik and Dragan Andrić, to the members of the 7th and 9th Members together on 24 April 2013; Momir Stojanović to Article 3rd point 9, Article 10, Article 3 point 14, Article 3 35, Article 3 of which is added after point 40, point 41, Article 3, which adds a new point 42, Article 33, which adds a new member to the definition of point 2 and to Article 33, which is added to the new member to define point 6 of the first item, which was submitted on 8 May 2013. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Miroljub Stojcic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Angelkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16053	Since this amendment has been accepted, of course I will not deal with the amendment itself. Given that the SPS parliamentary group has submitted 15 amendments and that they are mostly accepted, I would first of all like to thank the rest of the ministry and the minister for understanding of the adoption of these amendments. Our wish wasn't to change the law, but to fix some of the things that we think contribute to the essence of this law. Once again, I thank the Ministry and the Minister of Understanding, so we will drop the debate on these 15 amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16054	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Stefana Miladanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Donka Banović and Gorica Gajic together submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16055	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, in Article 3. The draft law on railways is given the meaning of certain terms and expressions, within the meaning of this law, in 40 points. The DSS Group proposes by its amendment that, after point 36, we enter a point 37 that would read – accessibility standards are mandatory technical measures, standards and conditions that ensure smooth access to rail traffic for persons with disabilities, children and old persons. The DSS parliamentary group has very good co-operation with the National Disabilities Organization. Always, together with them, whenever a bill comes into the assembly that significantly concerns the status of persons with disabilities, we try to submit amendments in time to make certain laws and how to fix them. If this National Assembly has ratified the Convention on the Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities as early as 29 May 2009, it has committed itself, that is, to all of us to respect the provisions of Article 9 where, as a signatory country, we are obliged to take all measures to enable equal persons with disabilities to be able to physically access the means of public transport, state institutions, information, etc. That is why we are obliged, ratifying this Convention, to provide, in terms of terms and terms, minimum technical standards that will allow for the physical access of persons with disabilities, primarily through means of public traffic, in this case by means of rail transport. That's why we have an obligation, we thought, together with the National Organization, to put this concept of quality standards into law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16056	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Stefana Miladanovic. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 7 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to the 7th amendment. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16057	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. The time that will be after the two minutes that are scheduled for the amendment, please subtract from the time of the authorised representative. Now I'm a little disappointed because I heard from Mr. Angelkovic, who is an authorised SPS representative, that you have adopted almost everything out of 15 of their amendments. We have a poorer relationship of the denied and adopted, we have submitted 21 amendments, from the DSS, and it is accepted only, I think, four, so it seems that Mr. Angelkovic has better relations with Minister Mrkonjic than we do, so he has made it easier and convinced him to accept the amendments. In this debate, we may also increase the number of amendments that have been accepted, which have been submitted by the DSS MPs, you never know. This amendment concerns Article 7 and Article 7 is within the scope of the second chapter, where it is mentioned about the management of railway infrastructure. In particular, Article 7 defines the status of railway infrastructure, as good in general use, in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. The same article then defines entities that can have the capacity of a public railway infrastructure manager and has prescribed certain conditions that the operator must meet to become one. In particular, this amendment proposes erasing Article 4 of this Article, which reads - that the actions of Article 2 of this Article may also be carried out by an entrepreneur under conditions and in a manner established by law. So in this article, in several places, it is said that infrastructure is good in general use, it is about general interest, etc. So, it's all clear when it comes to rail traffic. We simply suspect that an entrepreneur or a capable businessman will have a responsible attitude towards property that is so important and that is the general good of all citizens of Serbia. So that's one reason. Of course, in this explanation, but it is for some previous amendments that were also on the trail of this amendment, you stated that in terms of market liberalisation, it is pointed out that a number of provisions of the bill provide for the liberalisation of the railway services market, as well as infrastructure management, and that this is all in line with European legislation, i.e. I assume with one of these European directives to which this law is harmonised. I also talked in principle about the fact that I still think it's not the time to be in such a complete way, so to speak, liberalising the rail service market or rail transport, although, of course, we know that competition is sometimes very important and very good and for the development of an area, because if you don't have competition and fear that someone else will take over the job, then you're not trying to be as good as possible, that you're providing better services, etc. So, the objection is that this is still early, this way. In principle, I quoted the director of railways, Mr Dragoljub Simonovic, and I will read again what he said 27.3, so before a full month and a half, where I don't know who this explains to, probably to my people working on the railways, so he says – The Serbian Railway will not make the state's position in negotiations on European recommendations for the liberalisation of the transport market, but Serbian railways are still not ready for such a thing, and that would be an unfair market struggle for the largest Serbian transport company. I'm saying again, I don't know who this was justifying, or whether he's fought enough with those who have proposed this law and worked on it, to wait for the full liberalisation of this market, or whether certain companies in our system can get into big trouble, I'm just thinking further about what might happen here. We talked a lot in the debate on how old our railway infrastructure is, that it hasn't invested in rail infrastructure for years, that money or these subsidies have gone to some other side, that Serbia has now provided some loans, that there will be some more new loans, that's all again borrowing both the state and every citizen person who will repay these loans, but we are also aware that investment in traffic, first of all, and in railway infrastructure is actually investing in development. Could it be that Serbia, all Serbian citizens, are paying off some credit, bringing in a railway infrastructure that starts from the railway, to signalling and everything else, to bring it into order, to modernise, reconstruct and the moment it is to be managed, to take it from a capable entrepreneur, without doing part of that holding company that will be the manager of the railway infrastructure within the framework of Serbia's railways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16058	Thank you. MP Zoran Angelkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16059	I think there's a little misunderstanding here about these questions, but first let me answer the first thing. It's not about the minister's relationship. My relationship with the minister has been known for the last 30 years, it's nothing controversial. You used to be in this position, today it's us, it's also natural. You once submitted 20 amendments, so all 20 accepted, we have now submitted 15. This is about the expertise of the railroad people. Don't forget I'm still the president of the assembly there. This is about the expertise of the railroad people and the contribution of the railroad people. Neither the ministry nor the parliament wanted to do this law, and you said that, without co-operation with the railway Serbia. (National MP Milica Vojic Markovic throws out of place. ) You may have been helped by some who are less professional on the railways. There are many experts on the railway, but there are some who are not professional enough. This question that opened here, when it comes to entrepreneurs and the possibility of them managing part of the infrastructure, what is it? We now have one problem with industrial tracks. Take, for example. one cement factory or some company that has silos. To build the industrial track in space from the railway infrastructure main to the factory, it could in fact build only the Serbian Railway. Serbia's railway does not have enough resources to build the main railways, and you have talked about it, and the construction of the main corridors and the main railways, and only for those industrial tracks. The railroad managed to deal with these business partners by being a fact-finding railway investor. They built it, and the railroad paid for it, because it became property of the railroad, paying for it through transport. This is where conditions are created, such a member, that the actual industrial track be owned by that employer, that industrial track to be owned by a cement factory, not by railways, to be owned by that silo, not by railways. That 500 meters, 200 meters, will be maintained in fact by the entrepreneur who owns the factory that needs an industrial track. This creates conditions for increasing transport revenues on the railways, because we have a large number of interested businesses interested in building these 100, 200 meters of industrial track, which will, in fact, be managed by them now, of course, with supervision, because the entire infrastructure is under control. Therefore, she too will have control, but in fact they will build, they will maintain and be the owners of that section of the railroad. This is not about between the two cities or between the two environments, but about these parts, which are the capillaries of the Serbian Railway Infrastructure. In this respect, the law provided for this and allowed the additional number of capillaries when it comes to rail infrastructure and industrial railways to be made available in the future, in fact because they then enter the main corridor, into the main railways. When it comes to the market, I have to be honest, it is not good for me as a former communist and socialist to talk to you about the market, but without a serious market and without the equality of economic operators, which is probably the essence of the Constitution and all the laws we write, and it is not just the EU, there is no future of this country, without allowing private railway companies, which we have written here. We won't even see how effective the railroad is. To be honest, I once said at a meeting and in the Railways, I think it's important for the taxpayer, for me and for you, in the end we're all taxpayers here who are sitting, not just Serbian citizens, too, to see if something is rentable, whether something works better or worse, on the one hand, and on the other hand, I don't think it's important whether the Railways of Serbia will work 18,500, as it is now, but rather important that in all the rail administrations, private and state, it works 30,000 people. This should create a condition that in one five or six years we have 30,000 people who will work in different railway administrations, private and state-owned, and that means that we have dozens of private in passenger transport of railways, that we have three, four, five more in transport, and the infrastructure will, of course, be unique, as it says in this law. That's the kind of story that was in Telecom when two new operators were given, and Telecom now has profits, it's profitable, and we have two more operators that have profits. We need to create an atmosphere so that we don't scare people by opening the market, but that everyone simply understands in the state sector that the market also helps them be more profitable and more efficient and that everyone benefits from it, and that they also work in the state sector, but also state and tax bonds as a whole. That's why I don't think what you're proposing is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16060	Thank you. Mrs. Banovic, do you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16061	Thank you, Mr. Angelkovic. I referred this more to Minister Mrkonjic than to you, and it was more of a joke about your relationship. He's been very well-known for many years. I think you, before you became president of the Assembly, were the chairman of the Management Board or were a member of the Railway Management Board, so I'm experiencing that this bill is partly yours. As for the observations that the amendments have been written to you by professional people, then it can be concluded, if professional people have helped you to write amendments, someone who thinks will say – the DSS has helped some who are not professional. That's just not true. So these are also engineers and people who are working in this big complicated system that is currently in trouble. I didn't expect you to accept erasing this attitude, but I just wanted to point out that somehow previous experience where, I say, we've given entrepreneurs something that's generally good, what they're going to build, it's going to be good again, and I hope again the property of the Republic of Serbia. God forbid there's so many factories and private businesses that need to build a half-mile of track, etc., I hope that's true, but somehow it doesn't seem so. I'm saying, I hope that's what it'll be at some point. You mentioned it, and I said it a few times... (President: Time. () How about my time now from an authorised representative?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16062	That's why I asked you. You'll have to call again after it was a replica. I'm sorry, but we have to respect the Rules of Procedure. Call again and let me know you're talking about the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16063	You said – we hope that at some point, 30,000 people will be employed there. Oh, my God, there's 17,000 to 18,000 right now. So I'm also experiencing comments from the director of Railways, and God knows some of the other people at Railways, that they're worried about the fate of these 18,000 people right now. So, I would not like to see this law endanger those 18,000 people, but I simply believe that it could have been a little gradual, especially if people say it takes them between five and seven years to bring infrastructure into some good shape and, of course, a lot of investment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16064	Thank you. The word has Minister Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16065	First I apologize for being half an hour late. One of the reasons was that we talked to a delegation from Belarus about introducing a plane line between Belgrade and Minesk. So again, a similar question to what Mrs. Donka said, but first to thank the MPs. Of the 57 parliamentary amendments, we adopted 23. I am still considering Mr. Pastor's amendments, Mrs. Judith, Mrs. Vojic Markovic and Donke Banovic. I thank Mr. Momir Stojanovic, who has shown a high degree of understanding for his 20 amendments, a great effort has been made by a man, and after the parts of these amendments have been translated into three other amendments that we are about to adopt here today. So a great effort has been made and 23 amendments have been adopted since 57. As for Article 7, what Ms. Donka said, in all segments of society there is such caution, from whether to open it now, because the sky is open, whether to let four companies go, and that JAT is losing its job because it is not able to monitor the competition, until we let, say, parts of the railway infrastructure run by privates, so it may not have any interest, but simply, not because of the EU, that we understand each other, but because of the state itself and because of the competitiveness we have to do so. That state, of course, must have some kind of control mechanism to control that our companies are able, above all, to monitor these flows. At the last meeting of the Assembly, I was already talking about Corridor 10 and the inability of our companies, unfortunately, to follow the trends of what the World Banks are looking for, and you all know that they are drastically in the application of these tender documents. Our companies, unfortunately, have not managed to vote for status to be among the best, and because of that, between a billion and 200 will not go as much money to our businesses as they are able to do, but we have given them to foreigners and now we are trying to push our companies through these foreign companies into these projects. Unfortunately, Serbia is in such a position today that we must do so. Believe me, at least in the traffic segment, I'm trying to do it, sort of channeling it. Today when we talked about that plane line, it's not a topic right now, but I want to let you know because it's really good news, we agreed that Minsk, or Belovia, the company Belarus, will be the one who will be the project operator and the project funder. So, with a little investment, we're going to make it work, because today that line wouldn't be profitable with two or three summers a week if we had to just go to the economic account. So, we try wherever we can to respect it, and the law is written, believe me, I have no prejudice whatsoever, each of the MPs who gave a good solution, which fits into some legal framework, we accept. Thank you again very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16066	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Dinic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Momir Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16067	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this Article 7, where it is said that the railway infrastructure is well in general use in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, I have tried to amend the amendment that, after the Transport Committee, transformed it into an agreement with the Assistant Minister of Resolution. I am pleased, because that definition was only good in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, and my proposal was that the railway infrastructure was good in general use in the property of the Republic of Serbia, which all interested railway undertakings can use, on equal terms and in the manner prescribed by this law. This later concerns both the concession and the problem Mr. Angelkovic spoke of. I am pleased that this amendment has been accepted in fact as an amendment to the committee of directors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16068	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) People's MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Antić together submitted to the 7th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been made by the People's MP, Karol Chizik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16069	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment of ours doesn't essentially affect the law, we just had the intention to fix it a little bit. According to Article 7(4), the activity referred to in Article 2 of this Article is carried out by a company of capital. We have made a proposal – the activity of Article 2 can also be carried out by another company, another legal person or entrepreneur. I mean, to make this law more precise, a team sooner to comply with Article 3(4) of the same law, so I don't know why you didn't accept this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16070	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16071	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, regardless of who is proposing this amendment, I think the amendment is meaningful and should have been accepted, given that whoever enters the APR could see that entrepreneurs are only part of the register, and that the companies in which almost all other legal entities belong, that this is a completely different register and that this amendment is addressed. So, they suggest that the word "entrepreneur" and in this position is to carry out the activity of the enterprise, under conditions and in the manner established by law, it can carry out the work. There are no companies, and the entrepreneur is, in fact, a craftsman. These include trade, catering, etc., while companies with limited liability, cooperatives, stock companies are classified as companies, so I see no reason why this amendment is not accepted. In the voting day, if I can hear that this amendment is voted on in Article 7 in Article 4, I will certainly vote in favour of this amendment, because it is far more precise than what the Government has proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16072	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Kasalovic submitted an amendment to Articles 8 and 47. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Antic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16073	Thank you. Dear Ministers, the amendment submitted by LSV refers to Article 9 and I don't see why you didn't accept it, since it is well known that the Vojvodina Railway in the years when it was in some way an independent business society was the most developed railway in the former Yugoslavia, then Yugoslavia, from 1977 to 1989. The LSV proposed that public railway infrastructure management operations on the territory of the AP Vojvodina except, of course, the master railways, that the infrastructure be transferred to parts established by the province, i.e. to establish an AP Vojvodina company. Of course, the transfer decision should be made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia at the request of the AP Vojvodina. We have submitted this amendment for this reason, which I said at first, well knows what the railway infrastructure in the then Yugoslavia looked like, and primarily in the AP Vojvodina, when it was, for example, There was a new Sad. Then, we know, more than 527 kilometers of railroad was remounted, that 100 freight wagons, 20 modern passenger cars, etc., were purchased, that I did not list all the benefits that the railways had at the time. I think you should think again about the LSV proposal, because today we have come to a large part of the railway in the AP Vojvodina, transport, transport, does not perform at all as far as passengers or goods are concerned, and therefore there is an interest in citizens and businesses, especially in the model of public private partnership. According to the draft law, a member of the 9th management business may be transferred to the manager only if there is no economic interest by society. We believe that management jobs should be transferred unconditionally to the AP Vojvodina Society, so I ask you to reconsider, look at what happened in the railways from 1977 to 1989 and today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16074	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16075	Two things. First of all, we're not a big country in the territory. We are who we are. Sharing Corridor 10 on two Serbian railway administrations would be catastrophic for rail development, totalling infrastructure. But since this and in principle debate was how great the New Now worked, and after that it was very bad, I just want to, and that's why I called to say one thing first. During that period, it means that 15 years were abolished in Vojvodina 287km of rail, and from 1989 to today 87km.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16076	Thank you. Olena Papuga, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16077	I specifically said what we think doesn't apply to highways. You're talking about these master roads now. So I don't know if you haven't understood me, but I specifically said that it doesn't apply to highways.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16078	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16079	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say that Article 9 is very precise and that it is talking about management operations in the part of the railway infrastructure for which society has no economic interest, can be transferred to processing infrastructure established by an autonomous province, i.e. the unit of local self-government. Therefore, the member himself is already scheduled for certain management jobs to be transferred to an autonomous province, to local self-government. The amendment does not refer to the transfer of jurisdiction but talks about the explicit, unconditional transfer of jurisdiction to the AP Vojvodina. In view of relations and federalisation, in the pursuit of federalisation of Serbia, I am afraid this would also be transferred to this public enterprise, i.e. to transfer it to the Serbian Railways. Given that we are living in circumstances where we live in a socially economic, political environment, it is not difficult to assume that the adoption of this amendment could lead to major misunderstandings, disputes that would later be made from a professional railway field and how they could also be transferred to political ones. I understand the promoter because it's a party of regional character. I understand the opportunity they'd want, but I'm afraid there would be another failure that I don't know if it would be in accordance with the Constitution. Therefore, the proposer has already predicted that certain responsibilities from the management of railway infrastructure can be transferred to local self-government, i.e. to the units of the AP Vojvodina, but that the amendment requires this unconditionally so that the railways of Serbia would lose any right to operate throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and given the political relations it could also be transferred to railways. For example, some parts of the railroad could have a completely different management than what the Republic rules. This would, of course, lead to international disputes in some situations, to railway congestion. I'm saying everything that could happen, I'm not saying it would happen. But, I am afraid, given the current constitution, of the current laws and jurisdiction, of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, of the political circumstances governing Serbia, given the political circumstances that exist in the environment, I, as someone who in 1990 respected the need for a certain degree of Vojvodina autonomy, am at that point right now. I think it would still be too much at this point if we adopted this amendment regardless of what I see in this and the good will of the promoter to satisfy both the AP Vojvodina in a certain way and that, in certain situations, management tasks at the part of the railway infrastructure can be trusted, therefore, it can, and it does not have to believe if the amendment were adopted then it would be unconditional. Knowing the proposing's political set, it's an honor to them, but knowing the current political furniture in Novi Sad, I'm afraid it would be a reason for even greater disputes and for the even greater ineffectiveness of our railway and possible payment of certain foames if there was a rail conflict that would be expected under these circumstances, if it were to happen, then there would be some damage to some other international representatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16080	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16081	To talk about what would happen if it were or were to claim or not what might happen, I was only talking about the facts at that stage when Vojvodina really had full autonomy that really didn't go to anyone, from 1977 to 1989, I was talking about the facts of how the railway worked, not only in Vojvodina, but that brought good to the whole of the former Yugoslavia. Secondly, I also said that with these amendments we would not harm anyone and that there is simply, it is all stated, that I am not now reading the amendment again, that there is an interest of citizens, which would contribute, not only to the citizens of Vojvodina but to the whole of Serbia now. That's not really what I'm collecting, because I'm coming from a field that's from Vojvodina, a regional party, but I don't think I'm shorthanded and I'm talking about the development and better functioning of the entire railway in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16082	Replica, Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16083	First of all, I want to say that often when I listen to my colleagues coming from Vojvodina, where I come from, I often don't understand them. So, the interest of citizens in Vojvodina, the interest of citizens in Serbia is the same. Their interest is to have efficient integrated rail transport, that it does not happen that locomotives run out of fuel, that accidents happen, travel faster, etc. I don't think that interest is shared. As far as this amendment is concerned, I have already said that Article 9 has been suggested that certain management operations can be transferred to the AP Vojvodina and only that it does not write the sea, and the amendment promoter wants, does not insist on the unconditional transfer of those rights to the AP Vojvodina. I said that as the party that first respected Vojvodina's autonomy back in 1990 when many should not have mentioned it, as the first one, I am against adopting this amendment for the reasons I have stated. When I listen to these promoters, I'm afraid they're chasing citizens' interests with the interests of the government of Vojvodina. So, the government of the Vojvodina is not citizens of the Vojvodina. The government of Vojvodina is who it is, I think it rests on only 25 to 30% of the voters who went to the election. The electoral system, not to mention the one that contributed to this government being formed in Vojvodina, is quite legitimate and I don't want to argue at all from that point on. We are all witnessing that the government of Vojvodina is trying to identify its functions with the functions of the Serbian government. So, those leading parties in the government of Vojvodina have some federal arrangement in their party, and that arrangement wants to pass on to all of Serbia, and I want to say that there's a hindrance here to what are the powers of autonomy and state, and I think that the motioner is right this time and that he clearly defined what the states and what the province is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16084	Olena Papuga, and slowly get back on topic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16085	I'm thinking again about locals and everything that citizens are looking for, if they want to advance their rail network, to work better, to travel better, to transport their goods, I don't think there can be any international incidents or I don't know what you're talking about right now, what can happen here, so if it just goes down to the locals and it's the citizens in local self-government to decide on this one of their lives and transportation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16086	Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of the session as soon as possible. The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16087	The Honorable Chairman, Minister, is good that the Committee has rejected this amendment, since we know that it was the 1974 Constitution and that Vojvodina had this infrastructure that it had destroyed for its period of rule and that part of the Constitution, so it is not good that in this way my colleague Marian wanted to transfer everything to the AP Vojvodina and in such a way that, as they are now going on, all of those transfers with the Republic that are on some constitutional issue, that he simply wants to separate Vojvodina from Serbia. So, the tenacity of these parties that require autonomy to be a republic, and this is seen in the naked eye doesn't need to be read much between the lines, or what it says in the text, because we now have this declaration that's being spoken of, it's all in the interest of the ruling coalition in the AP Vojvodina. So, it's a good thing the board didn't accept this amendment and we disagree, the SNS won't decide.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16088	The word is Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16089	This is about the local network. I don't see why you now think we're detaching the Vojvodina from Serbia. Was it at the age when Vojvodina had full autonomy, was it secededed from Serbia? I don't understand it, and why now through this good intention of ours, you immediately see some secessionism or I don't know what you're seeing, because I think we've gone into some debate that's not suitable for this and I've just been thinking about the local network, about getting down to the local level, about making life easier for the citizens, and I just don't see the reason, maybe you haven't looked at the facts, I'm not going to read now, when Vojvodina had its own railway infrastructure, was it at Serbia's expense, and was there any indication of secession?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16090	Replica, Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16091	There is no infrastructure in any country that is being transferred and that has any economic interest, that is being transferred to local self-government, but also to the province, to other areas. So in 1994, the Constitution brought that the province was a unit, a federal unit of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and destroyed all the complete infrastructure of the railway in Vojvodina, except for Belgrade, Novi Sad, Subotica, and this other thing was not ruined, Bačka Palanka, Novi Sad, via Bačka Petrovac, anywhere, Vršac, Belgrade, there is no infrastructure anywhere, and these are the very authorities that have received, all the rights and transferred competences for that infrastructure and have simply destroyed it. I don't see any reason why you are now, when a declaration is mentioned, you are now going to kind of improve that infrastructure, that the province is going to operate economically, so far you haven't done business economically, and you don't need to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16092	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16093	I didn't want to replicate before, I think we got along, but since this debate is obviously being conducted this way, allow me a few words. I purposely said how many kilometers of railroad was lifted, 287, for those 15 years, precisely because if it is left to the right and not to the state, but to the smaller environment that it decides whether it is good or not, if it is automaticism and if it is an obligation under the law that it governs, it can say one moment – well, now I'm going to fix it; and after three years to say – now I'm going to cancel it. Here the law allows, and just before we had a debate about that it was even a different amendment, that it couldn't even give the economic operator 300 and 500 meters to give. It's possible for local self-government that she can participate now, but that doesn't mean she owns the infrastructure, so she can't shut it down, she can't lift the rails, she can't take out the rails. If he doesn't manage well, that right of government will take over. Can she fix the railroad if she wants, if we mention Sombor and Subotica, and according to the current law, of course and under the current law, we did it. Where did these 30 trains come from? What's 105 going on at the B.B.W. train? By investing in the rehabilitation of certain railway parts and the construction of the railway on the Pančevo-Batajnica route and we now have 30 departures. Therefore, even under the existing law, it was possible that local self-government could solve reconstruction, construction of the railway, investment in the railway in the common interest. Under this law, there is even the possibility that some company can manage and some two or three local self-governments, but there is no automatism that he owns and that's the essence here. Here is the question that the state must own, and whether the state will let someone manage, it is a matter of the interest of the elaborates, if someone comes out, two municipalities, so they say – we will invest five million euros, it is no problem, the existing law allows.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16094	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16095	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to explain, without any excessive passion or demagogy, what we've suggested, why we've proposed this solution. According to our amendment, we wanted to extend those opportunities that the bill promoter foresees, related to the management of the works of railway infrastructure. According to the bill of law, if society, i.e. The "Serbian Railways" estimated that there is no economic interest in a certain part of the infrastructure, then the right to manage that part of the railway infrastructure can be transferred to the AP Vojvodina and local self-government units. That's what the bill provides. We want to expand these opportunities to other opportunities, in particular in two other cases, when society cannot perform regular maintenance, i.e. organisation and regulation of rail traffic. These are the other two options if the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the company could transfer the right to operate part of the railway infrastructure. So there's absolutely no speech, there's no word on property rights. We suggested it a year and a half ago, that's what I explained last week. We today think that would be a good solution and that would not question the single railway network of the Republic of Serbia. Because it was adopted a year and a half ago by the Public Property Act that rules out that possibility, we cannot suggest it today, unfortunately. We can propose different solutions regarding the right to manage part of the railway infrastructure. Simply, we believe that, in addition to cases where society has no economic interest in managing part of the railway infrastructure, the possibility of transferring the right to operate should be made possible, once again, when it cannot carry out regular maintenance or organisation and regulation of rail traffic. What would that look like to the solution we suggested? We have proposed that the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopt a solution on the transfer of the right to manage part of the railway infrastructure, meaning that it is not a society, not by the JP of the "Serbian Railways", but by the Government of the Republic of Serbia at the request of the AP Vojvodina and the units of local self-government. If you want, it's a more centralised system than what you've proposed, provided for in the bill, because the government would make that decision at the request, on the initiative of the local community, i.e. AP or local self-government units. I don't know why this amendment was also rejected, but it is stated in the government's opinion that this amendment defines unconditional transposition, of course there is no speech. We have been talking for months now about disputes between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Vojvodina should be resolved in a way that sits at the same table and discusses issues related to public property, issues related to jurisdiction, issues related to the amendment of the Law on the determination of certain powers of the AP Vojvodina, etc. We think that this should also be regulated in this way as regards the transfer of the right to manage part of the railway infrastructure. What makes us think it's not enough that this possibility is related to parts of the infrastructure, when there's no economic interest by society? Because we believe that we should also enable local communities and the AP to develop a railway network, to invest, to compete with various funds, not to get into the situation I was talking about ten days ago, that the AP Vojvodina received funds from IPA funds for making a feasibility study for the reconstruction of the Segedin-Subotica-Baja railway and that things are because it is waiting for some of the signed ones from Belgrade. We don't think that's normal, because that's why all the citizens of the AP Vojvodina, all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and everyone who would use that part of the railway infrastructure suffer. It's absolutely not about, once again, underlining property rights, not about ownership rights, it's about making it possible for everyone who is able to invest, invest in this railway infrastructure to make it more efficient and make people travel in a way that would be appropriate in the 21st century. When we talk about some legal basis for this solution, once again, Article 87. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says that natural and legal persons can acquire individual rights on certain goods in general use, under conditions and in the manner provided for by law. We have defined our amendment the conditions under which this would happen in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Another important provision of the Constitution of Article 183 reads – AP Vojvodina regulates the issue of regional importance in the area of road, river and rail traffic and road planning. So what we have proposed is absolutely envisaged by the highest legal act of the Republic of Serbia. What I did not mention last time in the principle debate was a solution from the Strategy for the Development of Railway, Road, Water, Air and Intermodal Transport in the Republic of Serbia from 2008 to 2015. This strategy was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. And today is good. It's a legal document. Point 4 of this strategy provides for the following, and here I will quote: "The management of transport infrastructure, owned by the state, will gradually be transferred to the authorities of the AP and local self-government units". If you want, language interpretation can help us to come to a solution that this government strategy of the Republic of Serbia also foresees automation, because it writes – it is gradually transferred to the authorities of the AP and units of local self-government. It doesn't say - it can be transferred. I ask Mr. Minister to consider this amendment of ours and try to define a rail system that is more appropriate to the needs of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and of all people travelling by rail in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16096	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16097	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have carefully read this amendment. So if he were to fit in, then in a certain way the law would lose its meaning. The second part of the amendment is quite fine, and the second part of the amendment reads: "for which society has no economic interest, infrastructure managers established by the AP or local self-government units are transferred". No matter what the word "can" is left out, that part of the amendment would be acceptable, but we have the first part of the amendment, and since the amendment is unique – after the management of the part of the railway infrastructure where the company cannot carry out regular maintenance, i.e. the organisation and regulation of rail traffic within the meaning of Article 2 of this Act. This first position is collapsing because the company is the infrastructure manager in the obligation of regular maintenance. I do not know at all what point the transfer of jurisdiction would be, given the company's obligation to maintain it on a regular basis, which means that the company that manages the infrastructure should ignore its work so that this amendment could be fulfilled, so that this second part is acceptable for me, and unfortunately this first part of the amendment is not, because it is difficult to define when the company ceases to carry out regular maintenance, i.e. the organisation and regulation of rail traffic, given that this law and the earlier laws make it compulsory to organise it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16098	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16099	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, society is obliged to organise traffic, but we all know that unfortunately it cannot or will not perform this activity in a way that would meet the needs of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and of all those travelling by rail in Serbia. I can also support this with current data. From 1935 kilometers of track in Vojvodina, there are 237km of local railways that are not in use, 347km of local railways on which very small traffic takes place, close to 200km of demounted railways, 445km of regional rails on which is very low axle pressure, and traffic is carried out with reduced intensity, etc. I think, as I said earlier, it is necessary to enable everyone who is capable, who wants, can do something to make this rail traffic in the Republic of Serbia more adequate, something to do for it. In addition, there is no automation, there is no possibility of abuse, as according to our amendment, a decision on the transfer of management rights would be made by the government of the Republic of Serbia. I am starting to assume that the government of the Republic of Serbia is looking at the interests of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, we can assume that the government of the Republic of Serbia, not this one, but any one, is not primarily interested in the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but I don't think we should leave that assumption. If we don't go from that assumption, then there's no danger that a certain part of the railway infrastructure would be managed by someone who would ignore their obligations to that part of the railway infrastructure. That is why we believe that this amendment is appropriate and that it should be reconsidered once more.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16100	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. You do not have the right to reply, but use the time of the parliamentary group, since your exposure is not mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16101	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would fully agree on the derelict of the railway and in the need that, at the request of the AP Vojvodina, the Government of the Republic of Serbia will transfer it unless it is carried out and regularly maintains and traffic. So I fully understand the meaning of the amendment. I can also agree with the devastation of the railway in Serbia, which is why in Vojvodina. So, earlier all the railways in Serbia, and hence also in Vojvodina, were in a far better condition. The passenger transport was made at a higher percentage than it is now. It was a richer economy and we had a better economic situation. More goods were transported by these stripes. There was more money for her maintenance and for her restoration. I understand everything and I was willing to vote and I said that the second part of the amendment was acceptable. The only thing not defined by this amendment is who will at a certain point determine that the company does not perform regular maintenance. All it says here is how it's transmitted, and it doesn't say which organ and who's going to find out it can't. So in one case, the AP Vojvodina will determine that society cannot maintain railways, or that it cannot organise and regulate rail traffic, and someone else will argue quite differently, and in that other attitude it already writes in which way your amendment is being implemented, which is also not disputed. So, at the request of the AP, the government makes the decision. We do not have an authority to determine at which point the company did not perform maintenance activities. So it's a purely technical thing. One and another position to be authorised – this and that determines that the company did not maintain on that and that share, so at the request of the AP Vojvodina, the Government transfers the shares to the AP Vojvodina, or the disputed railway. I was willing to support it, however, there is this technical lack. Given that, I don't know how it can be fixed. I simply understand the amendment, but I cannot support the amendment because of this lack. I believe you misunderstood that I'm against this amendment, on the contrary. It is very meaningful and good, but it is only missing who will determine that the company did not perform maintenance, i.e. regulation and traffic management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16102	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Ivan Andric, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16103	Thank you. Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when you mentioned a little earlier that you were considering adopting perhaps some amendment from Mr. Pastor and SVM, or my amendment and LDP, I hope you were just referring to this amendment that applies to Article 9, even though our amendments have changed in some way and agreed that this amendment would become acceptable to you. It is clear that this Article 9 is in fact a political issue and this is a political issue in terms of the state's relationship with its province, the central government's relationship with the province. That's what I think it's really clear to everyone and that's a fact. So, to such a clear member of the law, we asked from the LDP to change one part of that member by removing the definition of no economic interest as a condition that operations of governance in one part of the railway infrastructure would be transferred to the jurisdiction of local self-government, i.e. the province. We think that economic interest is a miracle. We simply do not have clear criteria as to how you assess the existence or lack of economic interest. I think only the functioning of Serbia's railways suggests that it does not know exactly what the economic interest means. Because, if so, Mr. Minister, with such losses, Serbia's railways do not have the economic interest at all to operate and function. What does that mean? That in that case you would leave the entire system, the entire infrastructure to local self-government, or the province of Vojvodina. It's actually a resonance that can be drawn from all the facts ahead of us when we talk about Serbia's railways. I think that's clear. To one of our little changes in this article 9, as you answered and as you explained why you did not adopt the amendment, you are in fact asking our question – why don't you do it, answer it – that's why. It's a general argument of the government regarding the management rights of railway infrastructure, which is, say, 45% on the territory of Vojvodina. It's more than 1,700 kilometers of track, and 1,700 kilometers of rails are obviously devastated. That's what Mr. Pastor of SVM told you enough. I don't think you can disprove facts that are true and clear, and today they're clearly spoken for. Therefore, there is no reason for any fear, no reason to fear, and there is no reason for reforming in any way, the modernisation of Serbia's railways only out of this senseless fear that it may break one rail system. The railway system in Serbia has already been broken. When you look at the safety of railway infrastructure, railways, railway vehicles, what is the safety of citizens driving on those trains on those tracks and what is the safety and employees of the railways, it is clear to you that this system, such a way of managing Serbia's railways, is only the greatest possible damage to Serbia. You are a people's man, Mr. Minister, and you will probably understand if I tell you that on the Serbian railway that this relationship to Article 9 and the relationship to the amendments of the opposition from Vojvodina can be applied to that saying – neither the bone of the glob, nor the other one. If you are unable to do something with Serbia's railways in general, then why not allow Vojvodina to arrange that part of the railway infrastructure located on its territory? Or, why not do so or not allow local self-governments that and how do they have an interest in changing their relationship to that infrastructure that is located in their immediate surroundings and which is in their interest? It's very simple questions, Mr. Minister, but I'm going back to that particular thing again. This Article 9 is also a political issue and really refers to how does Serbia think it modernises itself unless it changes the central government's attitude towards the province?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16104	The word has Minister Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16105	Last time I talked about the law in principle, I didn't have any political interests or thinking at all, I'm always trying to say that I'm not a politician today, but an engineer who knows something. So he talks about me talking politics now, about separating Vojvodina from Serbia is unserious. If you know what I did in the term of last government with that famous Corridor 10, then it is the best proof that there are no obstacles in this sense, but I am doing what is rational, useful and good for the state of Serbia. I have no fear of thinking about these two members, that's what I tell my friend Pastor, and if I decide and think about these two members, not politically but professionally and economically, not out of fear of adopting them as well. But I have to compare and waste time, but let me do it sometime. We told the same story about local roads, so when I explained to the government that it wasn't good, that local roads couldn't be maintained in municipalities. Where two municipalities that have one path and have a bunch of social problems, since I know how the people of Serbia live today, will choose to maintain roads, then push local firms that have one or two workers, then the members of the government laughed at me. What is it today? Among other things, I say that the local roads don't work, that they're catastrophic. I'm sure the state of Serbia won't leave Vojvodina in the sealed, vice versa. Today we are negotiating, that's what I said last time, about this highway that is not disputed, that Belgrade -- Budapest will be arranged in record time. He's got funds, European banks, and the Chinese are giving money, loans. Today we're making the Jell-O Bridge, because it's the most important point on the master's track through Europe on Corridor 10. We created conditions for one part of Ruma – The Doves to be remounted immediately because we have no documentation. That's the problem with the Russian loan. You have no concerns, but there are concerns about me personally, professionally that local railways as well as local roads, that I do not qualify them further, that they come into a position to heal. At the time Mrs. Papuga spoke of, I was one of the directors of the Railways when I was in 1986, and now I'm old, and I'm ashamed to speak, and then I was a member of these various commission groups. The only negative thing was that every republic worked for itself, so today we have six systems of electrified railways, etc. I agree there were good things, especially in Vojvodina. Slovenia and Vojvodina were working best then and there was no problem. But I have one question, you all come from a bar, are local self-governments able to deal with this job today so that this job is at least at the same level, if not on a better level than it is today? It's just my dilemma, no separation policy or separation policy. It's my dilemma and I'll try. First of all, don't be angry, Mr. Pastor is my favorite because we talked about it that way in that government. And of course, what Mr. Risticevic says, he's right, we have to define where and when the moment starts that we're talking about, let the society let the local self-government run the tracks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16106	The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16107	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, don't forget that travellers are not allowed to finance from excise duties. You know that the tolls were entitled to 20% of these gas excises to maintain roads, and that's how those funds were transferred to these local self-governments. No more excise funding. Now he's got state subsidies. So instead of 18 billion, it's halved. Isn't that right, Mr. Minister? Milutin Mrkonjic: A third. So it's an even worse situation. That Serbia's roads are dying, because in this way you won't be able to maintain or patch holes in roads, let alone do something more serious with a catastrophic situation on the roads in Serbia. Whoever sat in a car knows what it looks like to drive on our roads. Therefore, I would not place responsibility on decentralisation or on the possibility of local self-government maintaining roads on their territories and the like. First of all, I would take responsibility for the one who makes such irresponsible decisions, which is the government and you are part of the government, Mr. Minister. You're part of the executive government, and the executive government obviously doesn't know what it's doing. You can't manage such serious systems as railways, roads and the like, and you can't figure out what some of your moves are going to produce. It's inadmissible and it's very shortsighted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16108	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16109	Of course I have to defend the government when you're right and when you're wrong, I have to defend the government. You're wrong. What does the government have to do with the demands of local self-government, if you know the drill? If you don't know, then we won't waste any time. How'd that go two years ago? On your request we've made that decision, as we are now, we'll make a decision and you'll say tomorrow - so the government doesn't know what it's doing. Well, because you think the government doesn't know what it's doing, but now I have to say I know what I'm doing, so I'm not gonna make that decision that easily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16110	The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16111	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, this is about making very contradictory decisions, whether we want to transfer some powers to local self-government or not, and transfering jurisdiction involves transferring certain sources of income. Do we want local self-government to work or not? We have had very strange decisions of this government regarding relations with the province or with local self-government, and this relationship has actually been reduced to making it impossible for them to finance each other as much as possible. I would remind you of the suspension of the many taxis that produced very large deficits and in fact made it impossible for local self-government to function seriously without talking about financing the province of Vojvodina, which is, by the way, a constitutional category, so we had all kinds of problems with funding under the Budget System Act. It's the government's job, to sort of harmonize, balance and decide what it wants, whether it wants to be one major enterprise and that there's nothing more in this Serbia, just government as one giant head and then just over some tentacles to know these local self-governments, which may not even be needed, obviously, what kind of relationship they are, but simply and that province has the right at least to survive, if nothing else, far from being developed. Is that the policy of this government? Apparently it is. I understand there's no money. I understand it's very difficult to create anything from nothing, but it can't be constantly taken from both local self-government and the province of Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16112	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16113	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I say this amendment is of sufficient quality. By the last minute, I will be thinking about whether to accept it, given that the management operations at the part of the railway infrastructure can be transferred to the infrastructure manager established by the AP, or the local self-government unit, they can, therefore, not necessarily. This economic interest that was defined by Article 9 doesn't really have to stand in that first position. So it's an acceptable amendment to me, but the arguments, at least the lips I've heard, are very controversial. I'm not one to slow down the constitutional position of the AP Vojvodina. I am not one of those who participated, except in voting, in adopting the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Under the Constitution and later the Constitution is the law of all laws, many things have been defined, including the law of the railways. The right to propose amendments is undeniable, such as the uncontested quality of this amendment. It is a version of the amendment submitted by the group of the political party Hungarians. So it's an unquestionable amendment, indisputable content. I'm thinking about voting on it, but the arguments I've been listening to don't stand. I'm afraid, when it comes to reasoning, that it's about the division of the railways, and the railway is not a thing that can be shared and the main highways, the highways and the directions, these are not things that can be shared. They're supposed to serve everyone, but they're not for administrative division. Therefore, certain situations create conditions for local self-government to manage part of the infrastructure. It is in Serbia, not only in Vojvodina, extremely abandoned. Here we can agree on the derelict of the infrastructure in Serbia, the inherited legacy. I believe this was inherited by this previous 2000 government and government. Many roads are a hole in the hole. Our railroad is what it is. I agree it needs to be restored. After the renovation, whose goods are we going to drive on those tracks? That's what I'm wondering. So what concerns me is the production we don't have and the goods we don't produce, which we should be transporting to the affected infrastructure. I accept that I am thinking about this amendment to support it, but we have an explanation that goes towards making partner relations between the government of Vojvodina and the government of Serbia, therefore, such a form of reasoning or the context of such an explanation for me is not acceptable, since the state is not a matter that New Sad and the Government of Serbia can negotiate. That's undeniable to me. Autonomy is what they can negotiate. Unless it is acceptable for some, there is a constitutional procedure to strengthen the constitutional and legal position of the Vojvodina. We've been witnessing these days that there's all kinds of momentum, all kinds of initiatives. At this point, I believe that the amendment is very good, but the oral arguments of water in some direction that the government of Vojvodina is going in, and that direction and that of the government of Vojvodina, for me living in Vojvodina, are quite unacceptable, for the simple reason that they want to agree on what the state of Serbia is. I think that Serbia is not a matter of agreement, that we can negotiate what the AP Vojvodina is if there is a goodwill for these leading political parties, and until then the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia must be governed by decisions of the Constitutional Court, in my opinion, should be respected. So I'm saying that the explanation is not exactly in line with an amendment that is very acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16114	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16115	I would not agree with the minister, first, that his exposure would not deal with politics, since the minister must be concerned, if not with politics, then with economic policy and that his pets are individual MPs. And that's bad, because they were the pets of the Democrats in that previous period, so we transferred some 30 and some powers to the AP Vojvodina and now we have big problems with those competencies, although the Constitutional Court has annulled those powers. So the question arises - what will the people of the Raska area say? What about their infrastructure? Their economic potential is that they can't do anything, neither can the state. If there is already some interest in the AP Vojvodina to have a railway infrastructure the way they imagine it will be good, why not offer you as a minister from the Vojvodina Money Development Bank, from the Capital Investment Fund, so that you can pool the funds, so that the owner is a society, not the Province of Vojvodina, if they are so interested? The problem is that some who come from Vojvodina, from certain parties, are so persistent that they have succeeded in the previous mandate to transfer those powers, where we now have problems with the province of Vojvodina. And no one can convince me that the promoters of these amendments, that their last goal is the one we are now talking about in the province of Vojvodina, where SNS has MPs in Vojvodina. So that's obvious. That was the way it was in the '50s when it was KIM. So it's the same scenario. There's one of His men who says, "I was coming down into your ropes, but the ropes almost went down." So we need to take these amendments seriously. We don't need to express any emotion, but we need to stick to the policy that this country needs to lead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16116	Thank you. National MP Momir Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16117	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is inadmissible that this House, when considering any draft law, spends more than half of its time in public debates, on relations between the central government and the provincial government of the AP Vojvodina. Today, we are discussing an important law, the Law on the Railways of Serbia, concerning a strategically important public enterprise, and it is simply unacceptable that the thesis they represent, as my previous colleague says - opposition parties from Vojvodina, and this amendment to this 9th member, and gives the possibility that part of the railway infrastructure should be subject to the use of local self-government, maintenance, etc. I ask you, have you found such a solution in any law on the railways of other countries? You're not and don't look for him. In each country, Serbia's railways are an important infrastructure facility, indivisible and unique, and only as unique can it function. What will happen, ladies and gentlemen, if we adopt this amendment of yours by any chance, and give the right to manage the local railway infrastructure of Vojvodina one part of the railway infrastructure, and such a request also requires municipalities in southern Serbia? I ask you a question – what will happen to international transport, transport of goods and passengers to Corridor 10 if the central government and the government of the Autonomous Region or the government of southern Serbia does not agree? Then you'd suffer both the goods and the passengers on that Corridor 10. So, Mr. Minister, both you and your assistants have a lot to do, and there are a lot of important members in this law. I think that we need to focus on the most comprehensive and best solutions that ensure exit from the crisis, which today is the Serbian Railways, and not in the wild debates on relations between the central and the provinceal authorities. So I'm asking the chairman to give you less space for this. The government, the committee in charge, has declared itself, but I do not see so much space and so much importance, as they are unsustainable, such proposals are unsustainable from the aspect of the functioning of the Serbian Railways. We will now spend time late at night, and we will not discuss some important members, strategically important solutions in the proposed law, in this house.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16118	Thank you. I have to answer to you, Mr. Stojanovic, that the discussion so far had something to do with the text of the amendment, so I let such a discussion be conducted. Judita Popovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16119	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In particular, I would draw attention to a member of the SNS who spoke about how important today's topic is. Yeah, it doesn't matter. So, Serbia's railways have certain social benefits, they are of public importance and that is a serious issue, very important for the economy and economy of this country. I would remind you that 45% of this railway infrastructure is made up of infrastructure located in the territory of the province of Vojvodina. We have seen how the railways of Serbia function and how the railways of Serbia refer to the infrastructure located on the territory of the province of Vojvodina. We think it's really bad governance of railway infrastructure and that's actually one reason to ask a question -- how long is it thought that central government is referring to its province? So that's a legitimate question and that's actually about today's topic. At first, I said that this Article 9 is a political issue. So if you show sufficient reasonableness in the assessment of how the Serbian Railways operate, then you will be able to understand why such a devastation of railway infrastructure occurred on the territory of the province of Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16120	Thank you. Momir Stojanović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16121	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if you and your colleagues Popovic are trying, as well as your constituencies, to prove to this House that the central government, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is so incompetent in any respect, and also in relation to what we are talking about today, is being handled by the Railways of Serbia, and if a growing number of competencies are being transferred in this regard to the government of the AP Vojvodina, that the situation on the Serbian railways will be much better, then you are wrong. I'm ready for you and the Secretary of Resort to deliver as many CDs today on Javaljuk and illegality, when it comes to Novi Sad nodes and what is the situation and what would it look like to pass this on to this. It sounds quite demagogue to such a thesis, and it is going through the proposal and other laws, not only of this law -- if as many powers, legal solutions, are passed on from the proposal of some law to the AP Vojvodina, in which case prosperity will be in that segment, because, apparently, the central government, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is not capable, and we see how much power there is in the AP Vojvodina, not to mention this about the Development Fund and many, how much it has shown its abilities. It kind of insults citizens who don't live in the AP Vojvodina. Insulting and capable people, both in Belgrade and in the rest of Serbia, are unable to have almost one problem, or not one resolution area, covered by the government of the Republic of Serbia, to solve in the best way for the citizens of Serbia, because only such exclusive capacity has the government of the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16122	Time. Thank you. Judita Popovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16123	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Just one sentence. We didn't announce arrests in the Serbian Railways. It seems to me that it was the Director General, who was from your ranks, from the SNS, who you installed a few days before the Law on Public Enterprises entered into force, in order to avoid the need to call a competition and that competition would be attended by candidates. So, the government has appointed the Director General, a party man who announced arrests for the criminal management of Serbia's railways and announced major changes, as far as future governance is concerned, and expects us to take his word for it. And the arrests, I think you can be interested in Mr. Director whether he'll be there soon or not. Simply, it was his statement in public.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16124	Thank you. Mr. Stojanović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16125	I would say that the current CEO of the Serbia Railways, unlike the previous directors, is a man who worked on the Serbian Railways, even though he knows what the Serbian railways look like. On the other hand, if you are talking about the announcements of the current director-general of the Serbian Railways on the review of the overall situation, within one member, I will be pleased to introduce you and Mr. Minister to the basic problems today, internal problems in railways not objective, subjective problems. They're above all a problem. The objective problems affect every railway of all countries, including our railways, but be sure at least according to what the current director-general has done to reduce costs and car representations, you have followed in the media, I believe that he will listen carefully to this session and that in the months ahead of us many irregularities, abuses will mentally document and suggest that the competent authorities follow the law. Therefore, do not expect the problems, which have accumulated on the railways for 40 years, to be solved in less than a year's time by the new management and the new CEO of the Railways. Wait a minute if that's gonna happen or not. Do not give an assessment of the consistency of the current director before the time, and I believe that it will have the help of the restoring ministry, and I believe that it has the assistance of the restoring ministry in the plan to take care of the overall situation on the railways.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16126	Since we're away from the subject, I'm breaking up the line. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16127	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, the honourable fellow Members of the People, when it comes to this amendment, I have no doubt as to whether or not I will support it. Maybe I wouldn't have answered, when it comes to this amendment, if I hadn't heard some discussion and some argument that should have initiated our thinking that we were voting yes or no. I am truly shocked by the certain statements I have heard here, concerning the relations between the province government and the government of the Republic of Serbia. I really can't understand that someone doesn't want to talk to the Prime Minister of Vojvodina when it comes to some, including these, issues, and they want to talk to Hashim Thaci. It's just shocking, at least to me, and probably to you. I'm asking you to make a deal with each other whether you took off your badges or not, because some of your statements are really... (President: Mr. Milivojevic, return to the agenda topic. ) Through the topic of the agenda, I heard that the topic of the agenda and this amendment is the jurisdiction of local self-government in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, not the Republic of Vojvodina, as someone said. I listened carefully to all the exhibitions and I heard that the problem here is whether we will transfer jurisdiction to local self-government, that it has the right and the town of Kruševac to ask questions when it comes to rail infrastructure, and then the main problem is whether or not the AP Vojvodina will have the right. In that context, I have to discuss when such an argument is made. I understand your concern about what will happen to the railway line in the Raska area, but why don't you show that kind of concern about what happens to the railway line in Zvecan. We have two autonomous provinces, we don't only have one, so for one, it bothers you to talk... (President: Time. It's not a replica. I'm speaking by amendment. I simply find it frantic that you do not want to talk to the legal institutions of the province's government, regardless of what Mr. Bojan Pajtic is there, who was convincingly beating you, and you want to talk to Hashim Thaci. He's an accommodating associate and a conversator. Come on, make a deal. You need some of your statements on time to limit, to say which of your statements are valid in the time-coordinated system until when, which is not valid and to agree whether you are radical or progressive. You can't when you have a theme of railways to be radicals, and when you have a theme of Kosovo, you can be advances. This dissection of the person of medicine is known under a very unpleasant diagnosis. Please get serious and adjust the argument, not to your political programme, but to your objective state. You know, what I've heard is that you're not letting us discuss this issue. For the end, I can tell you something else. When it comes to the expertise of the director of the Railways, I know a dozen other MPs who played with electric cars when they were little, but they don't think of being directors of the Railways. The way you guys in the Colubara from the grill cans went to coal, and the way you went from cleaning cars to being director of the Railways, that's what it says about your expertise and your ability to run this country. The consequences that such management of the resources you have left for Serbia will be discussed by generations and, unfortunately, will suffer generations. So, when it comes to this amendment, make an argument for or against, but political disqualifications whether it's the tendency to break off Vojvodina or not, is this a desire to transfer to local self-governments the insecurities that are not available to you, leave it to the central government or to some new party body that you have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16128	The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16129	Comrade Milivojevic, you are shocked by some statements from your predecessors, and I am shocked by the results of your rule over the past 10 years, so I suffer as the rest of the citizens. Your finding that it will not discuss the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Prime Minister, however you will, with Bojan Pajtic on the problem of transferring the competence of the AP Vojvodina, and will with Hashim Thaci and your connection of a law on an infrastructure facility with a regional problem, such as Kosovo, is unacceptable. I don't think such a comparison can pass. As for whether we were taking off or putting on badges, you know, Mr. Milivoevich, that I wasn't wearing a badge and I wasn't a member of the SRS. That remark of yours doesn't touch me at all. Even if I did, when it comes to consistency or inconsistency, Kosovo, so I don't know the railway and the parallel you pull, I think the SNS is much more consistent. How much inconsistencies there have been in politics in these last 12 years when you've exercised power, we should discuss this whole week in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16130	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16131	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, someone said someone was cleaning cars here. Maybe it is, but I'm making a difference between cleaning cars and cleaning cash registers. It's a big difference, although expertise is in cleaning the till. In that first league, I wouldn't want to play, like when the debate was in principle, Minister Mrkonjic was told. The first league in the previous government was based on cleaning the cash register. Is it expertise that defines the quality of a director? You know, you can also have Doctors of science, maybe be honest, and maybe they don't know that what they wrote in books is conducted in the field in the work. In the first place, I'm looking at the score. In just one brief address of my deputy, we saw the result of the savings. This is the result, such as the result of one poor government, such as the AP Vojvodina Development Bank, Agrobanka. Those are very bad results. Very bad results, and the smartest people there. They just didn't do how to improve, they were doing how to clean up. I'd rather be the one cleaning cars than the one cleaning the tills, because through the cash registers, the public's pockets are clean and you've lost the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16132	Let me get this straight. Mr. Toskovic, you're after the amendment? (Vuceta Toskovic: Replica. Did you mention it? (Wolceta Toskovic: Some of my sentences are mentioned. Mr. Pastor, by amendment? No, you're giving up. Mr. Mitrovica, by amendment? Mr. Milivojevic, replica. First Mr. Vučeta Toskovic, replica, then Mr. Milivojevic, replica, then Mr. Mitrovic, then Mr. Lapčević, by amendment, I suppose, then Mr. Rističević, by amendment. Here you go, Mr. Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16133	I volunteered for the replica, given that the DS speaker mentioned the Rasca area. At some point, I said the question should be asked -- what are the people of the Raska region and the southern Serbia. Under this "South Serbia" I meant both Kosovo and Metohija. So it's the same expression, only in another form. I've been thinking about all the infrastructures in all of Serbia's territory. I cannot understand that there are people who have passed on 30 and some competences in the last term and are now talking about some amendments or non-alignments, that they are not in any style or at their request. We know what's going on in the province of Vojvodina. I am from the People's MP from Novi Sad, and I want to defend, because I know the intentions and the last objective of these amendments and the proposings of these amendments. If you can't see it, we from Novi Sad, the MPs of the people, will see it, and we will always report that in some way we will prevent these amendments from being accepted. So, the SNS certainly won't vote for these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16134	Replica, Mr. Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16135	You know, I'm shocked by someone's effect, because some of them, when they left power last time, my nephew who went, then he was a primary school, he had a map of a country, a big one, and then one territory was cleaned off that map, a big territory. My grandfather, who never left Serbia's territory, thanks to some policy, seven, eight times changed the name of the country he lived in, and throughout his life he lived in Jasica next to Kruševec. But when you talk about cleaning the register, I know about some very unpleasant cleaning. Before you remember cleaning the registers, remember the term "ethnic cleaning" and your famous speeches in this Assembly and the full train refugees, who had to leave their homes because of such policies and that cleaning. Then ask yourself what your responsibility is. It's a very unpleasant term for "ethnic cleansing." When you're talking about cleaning up cash and bank abuse, I'm absolutely sure you're talking about Dafiment Bank, about Jugoscanka. I'm absolutely sure you're talking about "Belgrade Bank." Do you citizens of Serbia and you, ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members, know who left the biggest bank debt? "Beobank." Do you know who was then in the government when the Beobank affair took place and the money was transported to Cyprus by planes? Tomislav Nikolic, Aleksandar Vukic, Jorgenka Tabakovic. These are those governments, those experts who are going to get us out of the crisis today. It reminds me of the fact that when shipwrecks ride on ice, they rejoice – we are saved, we are saved, here comes the Titanic. (President: Time. Drive on your Titanic, but without us.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16136	Replica, Mr. Arsic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16137	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I no longer understand what this story is about a political party that is not even parliamentary anymore. Even if I wanted to, I can't hide that I was in the SRS and I'm not ashamed of it at all. I remember the time when I was among the 23 MPs who brought down Zoran Zivkovic's government. At that time, it was much harder to be a national MP to the opposition than it is today. Don't forget that. Also, when you mention Hashim Thaci and who is talking to him, no one from this government has met with Hashim Thaci secretly at some airports, but has been granted approval from this National Assembly. When it comes to banks, with the Dafiment Bank, my conscience is peaceful, both morally and criminally, because that's not what my former and current party has to do with it. When you mention banks, remember Goran Pitic or one MP who is the same on one of the board of directors of a bank, or we will "Sartid", who closed all our banks, write off the debt "Sartidu" where just now a colleague named Bozidar Djelic participated, with a direct contract, sold out the debt. One more question. When these banks are so bad, what's no longer the end of their bankruptcy proceedings by liquidating them? Because then this very Goran Pitic and Bozidar Djelic will be asked – why did you pressure the governor at the time to lift the permits to work for these banks?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16138	Mr. Veselinović, I have you registered. (Janko Vesenovic: Replica, all possible from Arsic, were four replicas. ( ) It is said of DS. You have a basis for that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16139	Mr. Chairman, replica. As I said, you know how these replicas look between DS MPs and SNS MPs, there are five replicas of SNS on our MPs, and it's about the ratio of all possible media, the availability of other means of publicising what is happening in this country. So, no one's against investigating who's been cleaning the registers from now on, back since the 1990s. Many were cleaning them, so many are now sitting in governments with you. Many were cleaning them up, so now they're taking up a number of functions. Their processing is not adequate, or only those people who have any touch points from the DS are processed. We also see these days, even in the media that are under your control, that various investigations are suspended, investigative actions on the orders of some officials, I don't know which, I would really like to know, that some who dig gold in Serbia, on private property, that it is forbidden to process them, etc. It is likely that citizens are much more interested in what has been happening in the last year of these elections, which is the fact that in Serbia today there are 800,000 unemployed people, that it is an absolute record in the state of Serbia, that 300 and some people are out of work a day... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... under your authority, I will conclude that inflation in the past month was record, or twice as big as planned, etc. Leave the past, leave it to the authorities. Don't be critical of any of the existing ones to talk about cleaning the cash registers and stuff like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16140	I just have to say, it's for the truth. As far as the replicas are concerned, the replicas here were alternately received by DS and SNS MPs. If the words "Democratic Party" hadn't been mentioned, I wouldn't have given that opportunity to you, because you wouldn't have a basis, as I wouldn't have given it to Mr. Arsic. So, depending on what is said, I will always give a replica to whoever has the basis for it and it is very well known in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16141	I didn't say SNS, so I hope you won't give them a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16142	You refer to the previous speaker, he has the right to do so. In this case, it's Mr. Arsic. Mr. Milivojevic, replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16143	With this exhibit, I would like to bring these replicas around this amendment to an end, and there will be some of them by the end of the day anyway, because we obviously have life-to-life opposing systems of values and ideological attitudes, but also some other concepts and understanding of real life. So, just for the end, since you're caricing about some secret meetings of someone with Hashim Thaci, my colleagues and Mrs Judita Popovic have told you nicely that you should discuss all the problems that exist and concern the AP Vojvodina with the legitimately elected provincial government of the AP Vojvodina. If you'd listened to us 20 years ago and sat down and talked to Rugova, you wouldn't even be talking to Hashim Thaci today, you wouldn't even be talking to Katherine Ashton. Today, MPs from Peća, Prizren, Djakovica, Urosevica would be sitting in this parliament, and we would certainly be discussing how to modernise the railway between Pristina and Urosevic and we would certainly discuss how to exploit more effectively the mineral wealth from Kosovo and Metohija, how to get them to central Serbia, to Vojvodina. So don't get too attached to that past, because there are those of us who remember well. The Serbian citizens' announcements of arrests cannot erase the memory of your past, of your political rhetoric. I wish that 20 years ago at least you would have spoken like this today, today I say, there would have been MPs here from Peći, Prizren, Djakovica, Urosevica, Albanians, and we would have talked to them about how to arrange a common state. It's your historical responsibility you can't escape from. You can talk as quietly as you want, not to wake up the radicals in you, but the radicals in you are always awake and are always ready to encourage memories of that past time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16144	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16145	When we talk about memory, it's obvious that my predecessor has little amnesia. The man forgot that the SNS candidate for the president of the Republic of Serbia was Tomislav Nikolic, the current president of the Republic of Serbia. He also forgot that it was negotiated with Ibrahim Rugova. That's what you're using. There are those of us who remember that. We're here. Don't worry about it. You are constantly trying to accuse the SRS of this political programme conducted by this government of the Republic of Serbia, and it is no longer here. Forget it. When a colleague from the DS Parliament Club gets up and says, "Today 300 people lose their jobs, it is 300 people, but why?" Because we're under the weather. Who laid those foundations? A democratic party. Tomislav Nikolic was not in power at the time. The job lost 200,000 people while you were in power. Now we've managed to slow it down. It'll be a success if we stop. We're so sick of the foundations you've laid, so wherever they scratch, there's either negligent or negligent or ignorance or thieving. Then you expect Alexander Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic to solve it with one magic wand, all the things you've been ruining for 13 years. Mr. Minister, I congratulate you on playing in the first league now, the one you deserve, not the one the DS put in for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16146	The word is Janko Veselinović, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16147	I will try to finish this circle of replicas. Mr. Arsic and SNS knew what the foundations were. They were running in the elections with a promise that unemployment would eventually be 10% and would stop it immediately upon coming to power. So they did not stop the growth of unemployment, but he was accelerated, he was never more unemployed. If you continue this way, you will really stop the growth of the unemployed in such a way that they will no longer be employed, because you are undermining the foundations with your policy, i.e. you have no policy in terms of economic stabilisation, i.e. that Serbia finally stands on its feet. This is evident from the fact that foreign investments are not at all, that instead of two billion investments are now practically zero, or some hundred million, probably some back-up investment from the previous period. You can see there won't be anything from the sheik's investments. We were very constructive and did not dispute the agreement, precisely because we would not be accused of the only investment you wanted to bring into Serbia. It's approaching six months, and there's none of those millions of dollars, and neither are the sheiks anymore in Belgrade. So, Serbian citizens see well what's going on, who's building what foundations and on what grounds this country, if you stay in power, will be in three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16148	The word is Mr. Veroljub Arsic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16149	Don't put what we've never said in our mouths. Let me remind you what we said in the campaign. We talked about working so we could at least get a little better today than yesterday, and tomorrow at least a little better than today, so day after day. What you did in the campaign, especially in 2008, should be a shame. You lied about 200,000 jobs, you just didn't tell the people, not the new ones, but the lost ones, and that's your result. The results of economic policy. Two terrible strikes on the capital of the economy and the budget of the Republic of Serbia took place in 2008, passed on to one part in 2009 and continued from the beginning of 2010 to November 2010. During that period, the euro jumped from 80 dinars to 110 dinars. The same thing happened in 2012 when the euro jumped to 119 dinars. It's a little over 110 right now. Who here knows how to run an economy and who doesn't? It is also not true that you did not attack the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates. It is, wherever you could attack, how this land should not be given, and it was chicory and land that was grown into weeds that were not processed. You even did demonstrations. What? So someone could get to the land cheap, not to raise the cost of land in Serbia. So don't worry about the deal with the sheik, he'll live and see who was right about us.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16150	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16151	I've been waiting an hour to get my turn to say something about the amendment. Whatever the law is on the agenda, we spend hours discussing an empty story about whether the AP Vojvodina was given enough jurisdiction or not, and we keep going round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round. They're a little forest, they're low on agricultural land, they're low on budgets, they're low on education, they're low on rail. It is constantly poured under the grains of the thesis, so sit down and negotiate with the President of the Executive Council of Vojvodina, and negotiate with them what you will give them. What kind of negotiations? This is the state of Serbia. The state of Serbia can talk to the presidents of municipalities, the presidents of the Executive Council of Vojvodina and other officials, but there are no negotiations. They can negotiate warring parties and can negotiate independent states, their representatives, and we do not negotiate within our own country. What are we negotiating? I think this Article 9, in fact, is an amendment submitted by a group of MPs, is of a political nature, and it is aimed at achieving political control and having authority in a particular area, and I think that it is set up to get the railway out of responsibility for infrastructure management. The infrastructure of the railway is in desperate condition. Article 9 states that part of the infrastructure for which the company, which manages the infrastructure of the railway, has no economic interest can be given to managing someone else, which in translation means someone here mentions this economic interest, if we want to be honest, there is probably no 9/10 railway. So all that can be given. The railways will say - we don't have money and we don't have an economic interest in maintaining a regional railroad, and you, if you want to take it, but, of course, they won't get the money for it, but take it from your own money and keep it. So who's gonna keep it? We can't maintain a five-mile road, they'll keep the railroads, make new ones. Well, that's pure fiction. What black track maintenance and making new ones? Forty-five percent of the railway infrastructure is located on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. That's the information you should be proud of. Where it is in Serbia in better condition is railway than it is in Vojvodina. And what's this story about "Serbian Railways" deliberately not wanting to maintain infrastructure in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, whose authority is it?- I'm sorry. What does that mean, they're being held in Belgrade, held in Nis, held in the King's office, but won't be held in Novi Sad?- I'm sorry. It's completely made-up stuff. Infrastructure is bad everywhere and it won't be repaired by any local self-government, no autonomous province unless there's money. If the state and the railways don't have the money, I don't know where the money's gonna come from, then the AP Vojvodina or some local self-government. Also, this member is completely inaccurate because he says that if the company has no economic interest, exclusively economic interest, it will transfer the infrastructure manager established by local self-government etc. Well, it can't just be a criterion of economic interest, there should be some general social interest, some national interest. Well, it's not just a railroad to make an economic interest, I guess it's supposed to connect some ends. I guess there might be some higher regional interest there than just economics. It has to be one of the criteria and it has to be decided by the government. The state invested in that infrastructure and the rules of that railway. No local self-government rules, no autonomous provinces. The state was in charge, the rules and then she will say – we made the railway from Valjev to Loznica because it will have a certain economic interest, but it will also have a strategic interest - to connect the Republic of Serbia. Maybe that railroad won't satisfy the economic interest, but it'll satisfy the other one. Maybe in another area from Shid to Backa Palanca, or Subotica, there might be some other interest, it doesn't have to be economic. So I think it's really becoming more and more that in this House whatever law comes to talk about how little is there for those who run the AP Vojvodina, how they always need to be given something more, how little is the money, how little is it to them. What do we do that we don't have an AP Vojvodina, we don't have Belgrade, we don't have what we need to do. Local self-governments in the Vojvodina territory have the same rights, the same powers as everything in the Republic of Serbia, but they also have donations from their province budget. So, double power. The same can be applied to the state budget when there's some infrastructure going on, and it's going to be attached to both the province and everything. Now, instead of us moaning that we're down, that we don't have the same rights, it's the opposite situation. Someone's always taking something from the AP Vojvodina. That's the other way around, people. It's a completely reverse story. I mean, I really don't want to hear any more debates like this that are first false and insult common sense. Ingencies on railways can be passed on to those of interest, but only if they are local railways and certain regional railways, but of course, if they are transferred, then part of the funds must be transferred, and then part of the employees to be translated into these societies in order to have a complete story. What does that mean now, come take you now and maintain the Zaječar railway – Niš, if you have money, railways and state will not give you money, and you take it, and we have no interest and we will not invest in it. I mean, if it's not a proper relationship, the state needs to know what its strategy is, what infrastructure corridors are of strategic importance and where there's no economic interest, maybe it has a strategic interest, so the state has to maintain and invest. After all, it all comes from the same register. Now that someone is more rude and sassy and grabs more, I don't think it gives him any more rights than we do who are nicer and we want to do it in a proper way.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16152	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16153	I'll also be like Mr. Lapcevic after the amendment because I think it's a good idea to get back to the agenda. The railroad is a unique and complex system. Exactly when we make amendments and when we make decisions about making laws or amending laws, we should keep that in mind. So only one who knows the rail system essentially can make some good, quality and sustainable suggestions. When I say y-single and complex system, I mean about the amendment to Article 9. I think it is not good that the whole debate on the quality of rail services and on the needs of our citizens is not just about problems between the central government and the AP Vojvodina. We have problems in other parts. It was through this Article 9 that the Proposer tried to remove some shortcomings and those problems that are currently reality. The next thing I insist on is reality, and the reality is that today, the Republic of Serbia doesn't have enough money to revitalise, rebuild, invest in all those routes as it would have wanted and as it would have known. Of course, if there were no one in this room, no one in the whole country who wouldn't invest in all those directions. Only 4.6 billion euros are needed to bring Corridor 10 into a decent state and meet those of our commitments by 2020. That's why I think Article 9 at this point, taking into account the reality of our financial situation, but the complexity of the system is quite enough and that it doesn't need to be changed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16154	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16155	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I said that this amendment is somewhat acceptable and that it does not differ significantly from the intended solution in the position of Article 9. But to that, my exposure was a real wave of replicas, so I almost don't know why it happened. Anyway, all these suggestions since I came to this assembly are going to be passed on from all laws to the AP Vojvodina. Therefore, the proposal of this amendment, therefore the amendment, which reads – after the management of the railway infrastructure work, can be transferred to the manager without the economic interest. This type of amendment is acceptable and does not differ significantly from the proposed 1st position of Article 9. I think the promoter took the opportunity to propose an amendment first of all to discuss negotiations here. To discuss negotiations between the government of Vojvodina and the government of the Republic of Serbia. So someone is persistently trying to direct the government of the Republic of Serbia, the state government with the government of a province. This is what concerns me, given the newly created environments and political tensions and political disputes that exist between the Serbian government, that is, the Serbian state and its AP Vojvodina. So, the amendment doesn't bother me, but the arguments are such that, the one who said he was shocked with what he heard, I'm in a reverse situation shocked when someone tries in all the laws of all jurisdiction to transfer from the republic to the province. So, in such a situation, I wonder, what was wrong with them in the past seven, eight, 12 or 13 years that those powers they now wish to transfer to the AP Vojvodina, would be passed on before the formation of this assembly and this government. While the authorities were in the Republic and the province of Vojvodina, they did not mind such relations, and at the moment when they lost power and held it only in Vojvodina, and when they reorientated and converted the party into some kind of federal or confederal party, that kind of arrangement they have in their party, they want to pass on to all the laws passed by this assembly, and also through support for this amendment which is not so controversial, but through discussions try to transfer those relations they have in their party to the state of Serbia, and therefore offer negotiations, given that negotiations have come to order in their party and brought down the party president they offered to all citizens. Here, after my discussion, it was also said that we were some product of the past, about some badges, and I as president of the People's Peasants' Party, I had never been in power in the 1990s, in the Government of Slobodan Milosevic, but a party of the former regime, which was the bearer of the former government, which is so busy in the chest and so many others objecting to the past and some coalition governments, I must remind them that from 1993 to 1997 they were part of the republican government, that they were in two governments of Slobodan Milosevic, that they were Djordje Djukic and Mr Radulovic, and in the federal government Mr Perisic. So when someone talks about the past, when they want to transfer it to me, I've never been it, unlike them who were and most likely to make it worth their while. When someone tells me about a central country administration, I never had such an organ in my party, but I can tell them that they will hold their main board next, some of the next meetings of the main board of the former regime in Central Prison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16156	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16157	I think the most severe member of the 106th and 107th and member referring to the agenda, because Mr. President, you should have intervened, because the previous speaker absolutely and in detail left the topic of the agenda, presented a series of lies, accusations and ultimately, insults. Yesterday we heard a similar thing from another party of the ruling majority, and I don't think such things should be tolerated, because we think that every time something like this happens, it's easy to get over it. I don't think that in any way contributes to a good atmosphere and trying to get good legal proposals and in this situation, I'm really, and before that, I'm not going to respond to this nonsense that we've heard before, but to appeal to you once again to try not to allow this kind of thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16158	According to the Rules of Procedure, Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16159	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 158. I think one MP can only address this assembly once on a single amendment. Here some MPs, two, three times, address the same amendment, and I no longer understand whether it goes through the form of fictional replicas or whether they are doing it through another formula. At least it was a principle rule, although it does not say in Article 158, that the MP can only speak once about the amendment discussed. On the other hand, it has been injured, not only the dignity of the Assembly, but we have a problem here and there that such things should not be replicated, because I understand the confusion that some people do not know whether they are on the Farm or Parliament, but still, warn them that this is a parliament and that some of the rules of conduct exist here and that ugly habits of past and private life cannot be imputed here to MPs of the DS or to impose rules that they tend to be prone to when they're in these reality shows. Yet this is a serious institution, and I think our goal, together with you, Mr. President, is to build this institution together and not to degrade it in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16160	As far as your remarks are concerned, the MP has the right to report on a single amendment several times, taking his time away from the time of the parliamentary group. Therefore, it is not only two minutes that the applicant of the amendment has the right to not be taken away from the time of the parliamentary group, but during the debate, the MP may repeatedly appear under the same amendment, but each time it is taken that time. The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16161	Two things, one thing is, I didn't want to use the replica, although we were right to talk 20 years ago about power, but it wasn't SNS, it was the SPS, and then I was entitled to replication, but I'm going to use it within my own. When it comes to negotiations with Albanians, I am sorry that some young people were so young that they don't even know about that time enough to talk. Serbia has negotiated with Albanians many times, including during the bombing with Mr. Rugova, when you mention it. So, in 1996, an education agreement was signed... (President: I understand you, just to get back on topic. I will return because this is directly related, you will see, but the problem is that the Albanians have never wondered about these negotiations, as well as today, Albanian leaders, because others have decided on their behalf. So, 19 times, the Serbian government with a delegation, 15 of them, was then also Deputy Prime Minister Mr Tomislav Nikolic, going to Pristina and they never wanted to come because others did not let them come. I talked to all of them before the bombing and after 1989 and 1990 and 1998, and they didn't ask. It's not the Kosovo issue on the agenda, it's the Vojvodina. When it comes to Vojvodina, the problem 20 years ago, which he spoke about just before, is not a problem that Serbia does not want to talk to the Prime Minister of Vojvodina, but the Vojvodina did not want to talk to Belgrade and went to Zagreb for an opinion. They didn't think to come to Belgrade to talk, talk about anything in common with Belgrade, it didn't occur to them that the same locomotive from Pančev to Belgrade was coming, but our GTP "Belgrade" locomotive went to half the bridge, and from half the bridge came ZTP "Novi Sad", so it takes the composition to drive to Novi Sad or Vrsac. That's how it was, you forget it, and some don't want to remember it. We have to prevent it, and the ombudsmen after 2000, and when it comes to countries, how we lived, and I changed one from 1974 to 2000, and you changed three countries from 2000 to today, and don't impute us. I've been silent for two hours, I don't understand what they're talking about. Local roads and railways are compared. Local roads include traffic, the state pays him to regulate traffic, and on the railways they do rail employees, they are traffic agents and they regulate traffic. They say they want to erase economic interest. When I hear from the party that stands for Europe, about the market economy to erase economic interest, I don't understand it. Now I need, a socialist, to defend the market economy. I guess we stood up for the market economy. Some want to go to Europe, and in 2000, when they're banging in pots, they want to go to Europe, but they don't want laws from Europe. We need to adapt to market economy, European laws, both of which, can't just, I want to go to Europe. It's not Europe, you just take a passport, so you leave when you have money to go abroad, it's legal legislation. Legal regulation implies an economic factor which is why something is done and this is what the law says very well, and that's why I've been silent for two hours. I don't understand, and I don't understand Mr. Risticevic, he says, he doesn't mind, he just lacks one word – economic interest, and what else, then remains political? We want to politically share both the railway and half the bridge, charge the bridge, and I saw it in 1989. Don't talk to me. That's what I experienced. And now you're gonna tell me, come on, don't come back, that was when it was socialist time. Yes, I was president of Serbia's youth, and I never got invited to any youth conference in Vojvodina, just for an election conference, and I waited two years to go to Spence for an election conference, and when I was a Yugoslav secretary, every day I got from municipal conferences, from all over Yugoslavia, when they held. This was the relationship between Belgrade and Novi Sad, more specifically, between Novi Sad and Vojvodina. When the poor came from Kosovo, they wouldn't give them water, they were afraid, they didn't want to, they drove them away. Therefore, we must not allow that, and that Vojvodina develops, who does it bother in Serbia? The richer the Vojvodina, the richer Serbia. Who's that bothering? Well, it doesn't bother anyone. It's just that it's a shame that we're going to do it now. Let's make every municipality have its own railroad. So where does that go? Where is it in the world? The track is, the infrastructure is important to be a state matter, and we said a little while ago, I've been thinking about it, if we have a railroad somewhere that's a matter of factory circle, which is even local, etc., it's not disputed. If the municipality wants to invest, so who is now allowed to come to the Serbian railways and say -- here's a billion dinars, a billion euros to regulate, to make a fast track from Saturday to Somboro? We'll make a deal right away. What difference does it make? What's the problem? Tenders, all nice, nice, here, 200 to go from Somboro to Saturday. Well, that doesn't bother anyone today. Who's stopping it? Neither this law nor the previous law prevents it, but I cannot say it – mine; and I listened to it. I listened to this until 1989 – my wine and mine can cross the border. Almost, there were passports, they controlled ID cards, they couldn't get passports in. That's how it was in 1989. You want us to forget that? We can't forget that. That's the point. We have to preserve a unique state of Serbia, and we can't keep every piece of it in every law, what someone here said, looking for a way to take this, how to take that, so let's see what Serbia is, and not just how to take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16162	Mr. Stefanovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16163	Don't complain to us about inside a party conflict, too foreigner. I also understood your gestures, the really strong gestures you had, the weak and the microphone caught you while you were talking, but at least I understood something. It wasn't exactly like that, Mr. Angelkovic. Here when someone asks to leave the possibility for local self-governments and provinces, that the destroyed railways, hundreds of miles of destroyed railways, which at this moment, and were destroyed during that golden period that you mention by banging in the pots, which otherwise, if we hadn't hit, you wouldn't have come to power now, never, at least said Ivica Dacic, well, at least respect it, so those tracks were destroyed then. Are you telling us about market economy? Well, you were growing mushrooms in Smederev. You were growing mushrooms in the hardware store. It's not a market economy, but if someone has the opportunity to contribute to the railways being maintained, why would anyone see it as a problem. Besides, I think the minister said it wasn't a problem. Well, you see when you say something like that, then that sounds totally normal and acceptable. I don't know what the reminders and the things that we get into the past that someone's trying to bring back, it's not there, Mr. Angelkovic, it's over. I know some of them tried New Sad again to use that yogurt, it went bad. So, don't do that stuff, I don't think it's time or place. After all, that's not even the subject of this amendment. I just don't see where she's missing just Pankov and Bracika Kerquez coming out here in front of us, how did you guys talk here, what does that have to do with this? The market economy, the political interest, demographic, national, historical, is that anyone can contribute to the maintenance of road and rail infrastructure. Since they're not being maintained now and there's no money, but if there's no money, tell me, what's to be maintained? Why do we need municipalities, they don't have money, thanks to one other member of the ruling coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16164	Thank you. The word is Judita Popovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16165	Thank you, Mr. President. Very short. This whole discussion, which lasts for over an hour and a half on amendments of the ambassadors from Vojvodina, actually points to one fact, which is that Vojvodina, in fact, is a matter of value system. The question of whether this system of values will remain the same one that was installed in the '90s, we know how and in what way, or whether something is going to change in accordance with some European standards that we are hearing so much about today. So much fire, so much to fight any change, when the question arises whether the devastated lines of Vojvodina will finally be restored and the relationship to the railway infrastructure that I repeat again represents 45% of the railways located in Serbia's territory. It's a key question, a system of values, and it's a question that should also be asked to those who are in power today and those who once established that system of values there in the 1990s and were in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16166	Srdjan Milivojevic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16167	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was just about to commend my fellow SPS colleagues and I was doing this in an informal conversation with Mr. Stefanovic not to participate in the replica, not to participate in the discussion, because most of our presentations should not initiate recognition with them because he directly referred to those with badges. I am sorry that I believed that there was enough political wisdom and that it would not participate in this work. When we talk about that part of my exposure, you don't need to recognize yourself, I don't remind you of any unpleasant associations because I hate someone, I don't love them, because I'm jealous of someone because he's president. I read a lot, I have here a book "All for Kosovo and Metohija", published by the Serbian Radical Party, author Tomislav Nikolic, reviewer Aleksandar Vukic. I would ask you to provide me with a written, author to sign this book, because these are historical, epochal sentences. Now you are in the coalition, so when you see Tomislav Nikolic, say, Srdjan Milivojevic asked me, he gave me a book to sign for a few sentences that I will now quote. He says, "Will you ever speak to the Kosovo Liberation Army? "Conversation on 31 May 1998. "We will never speak to terrorists. They're terrorists. We'll put them all in jail. How are you finally going to solve the issue of Cosmet? We will solve this issue with the full law on local self-government," these are the epochal words. "And by a constitutional decision, the new quality in local self-government is greater than we propose for each ethnic group." Do you know how much wisdom there is here for two lives? You can't read that and figure out what it's like to turn from that policy to this day. There's no need for you to recognize yourself, I was telling exactly who I meant. We were in a coalition with you, to tell you right away, we do not regret it, we are not ashamed, because it was the only way we could change Serbia and get to this stage of European integration. When the other day, Mr. Mrkic to me... (President: Time. ) Here I am, saying – now you're talking about me; I am, and I am undermining you, you can't be the Messiah on the bench of the Bivol Fighter and expect you to play in the Champions League, that's impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16168	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16169	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 27, I ask you, Mr President, that, using the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you lower the tensions that exist, especially among the comrades who are offended that no Socialist Youth of Serbia congress has been held in Vojvodina. Maybe it's important to them, not to me. I believe that in 2013 no citizen in Serbia today matters. The railroad law is on the agenda. Railways are two centuries behind modern, European railways, so please, by returning to the agenda, let us make amendments to at least a little bit of this law better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16170	I ask all MPs to really return to the agenda. We have a really large number of amendments ahead of us. We've only reached the amendment to Article 9, we have amendments to Articles 107 or 108. So it would be better to go back to what is the essence of today's debate and, of course, be less involved in replicas. The word is Mr. Angelkovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16171	The session should be attended all the time, not only when they are replicas, and then take part in the controversy. I said here, according to the previous amendment, that from 1974 to 1990, a 287km railway in Vojvodina was abolished, when ZTP "New Sad" existed as an independent enterprise. Therefore, not only are the railways devastated from 1990 to 2013, but the railways have been devastated before. This is not about banning the law or the Vojvodina as a province self-government or local self-government to invest funds. It's just that it can't be done by automation, it's been discussed under the previous amendment, transferred to management, and it can't be erased by economic interest, but the state will determine where it can and should be. When it comes to investment, I said before, so who's stopping Vojvodina from investing in the railroad now, for example, Sremski Karlovci and Beocchin? Who's stopping the funds from being invested? Nobody. Make him invest, get the money out. Let it be determined in the budget and fix the track. Who's gonna stop them from doing that? That's not the point. The point is that a single infrastructure system in Serbia must exist. You don't understand. You're too young to understand. When I say about where the Youth Congress is being held, no, I was talking about the relations that prevailed in the developed state of Serbia as the predicate of the breaking of Yugoslavia. That time should not be repeated and must be repeated so that, whether a young man belonged to DS, SPS or to another, that time knew that it would not happen again, when separatism in Vojvodina would arise. That's the point, not where there's going to be some convention, etc. Through examples, we must learn about everything, even in the existence of a state.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16172	Replica, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16173	A great Serbian writer wrote and said one smart and good thing – the fire is not extinguished by fire, and hate is not answered by hate. On behalf of the SNS, I won't answer with hate. I will speak and answer the truth, which is that neither the legitimately nor the legitimately elected president of the state and the president of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, nor the officials of this Government of the Republic of Serbia, nor the president, nor the first vice-president spoke to any KLA member, as this was just pre-inputed and misrepresented. I'm sorry the president got out. Mr. Vice President, please interrupt this time machine that we've been in for the last hour, hour and a half, these memories when someone was little. I am sure that this is of no interest to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and I am sure that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia do not expect us to evacuate memories, but expect answers. They expect to know if and when they will and how much they will live better. I think we are all delegated to this National Assembly to give such answers. As for Vojvodina, and most of the controversy was about the Vojvodina and the Vojvodina railways and at all new values, let's stop arguing once about the parts of Serbia with each other, stop arguing about Belgrade and Novi Sad or vice versa, because this Serbian government has answered the irresponsible question that has been arguing all along with Novi Sad and Belgrade, and that question is – where is our money? The answer is given – there are money, in the Vojvodina Development Bank, burned, spent, stolen. There they are through the Vojvodina Development Fund. There they are, through such things are spent, there's the answer where our money is. We got that answer. Serbian citizens living in Vojvodina received that response. Now let's move forward, let's look into the future, let's create that future, not live in some time machine and in all kinds of rounds.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16174	National MP Donka Banovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16175	Thank you. I'm advertising a breach of Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure. After all, I have the right to do so also as an authorised representative for the draft law which is now on the agenda, and that is the draft law on railways. I really ask that you, as vice president, intervene that we go back to that law. I'm going to raise one more doubt because it's happening again and again every day. I'm inclined to think that at the beginning of the day, two parties, one that was the headquarters of the previous government, the one that is now the headquarters of this government, simply at the beginning of the day, agree to cause replications, so that we spend one two hours listening to accusations going from the left to the right and the right to the left. We, members of other parties, simply do not want to participate in this conflict, so to speak, the political war between them every day is being fought in this room, and I really ask that we return to the agenda, and that colleagues in other places bicker.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16176	The People's MP Judita Popovic came forward. On what basis do you want the word? No, you have no right. [[Judita Popovic, from place: Right to replica.]] National MP Borislav Stefanovic came to the floor. On what basis do you want the word? That's enough replica. [[Borislav Stefanovic, from place: Right to replica.]] You have not been mentioned by anyone by name, please, the MP has expressed his position. Is there anyone else answering for the word after the amendment? Yeah. ) According to the amendment, MP Jovan Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16177	Here, I can say that I have closely followed this discussion about the possibility of assuming jurisdiction by the AP Vojvodina or local self-government, and it is a general question of the capacity of our local self-government to assume certain powers. I want to remind myself of the reality in which our local self-governments are located, the reality in which the decisions were made by both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Assembly, to remind them that local self-governments have been denied for the significant funds that were provided for them by law, I am talking about transfer funds, and that, as they have been denied funds, they have also been transferred to a series of responsibilities, from the maintenance of the road, which you spoke of, ministers, from the homes of health, emergency aid, here now for our local self-governments because of these new obligations, and failures by the state to pass on legal means to them, cramp in troubles. They can't make any serious investments, an investment plan, long-term planning. And now we're here to discuss it, should they assume jurisdiction? So, local self-government in Serbia, in the state in which they are present today, they are not simply able. Now it's about the autonomous province. We were here in this National Assembly in 2009 discussing the Law on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, where it is said - when this law is adopted, when the Vojvodina is transferred to jurisdiction, there will be incredible development in Vojvodina, incredible improvement, new employment. The Vojvodina has the capacity, the ability, everything that is needed, when it assumes these powers, to live in Vojvodina better. From this unconstitutional law to this day in Vojvodina, we have come into a situation, based on the statistics of this country, to live the worst. And now I ask you what is the right of the AP situation because of its irresponsible, poor government policy in Vojvodina, to seek new jurisdiction, when they were unable to take over, implement, and even moreover, they put citizens in a much worse position in the AP Vojvodina. A lot more stories about value, about AP Vojvodina, about the values of autonomy. What values are we talking about? The other day we saw great democratic and European values, that autonomy is being called to 1945, to the communist dictatorship. That's where those values come from now in Vojvodina, when the decision was made with a gun to the head. Enough of that talk. The Vojvodina is not able, nor is the state of its authority, nor the capacity to assume these powers. We can no longer discuss the important laws of the state to say that the values of the AP Vojvodina are at stake, that democratic and European principles are collapsing, and now we have clearly seen what the principles are – in 1945, OZNA, pressures and dealings with non-experienced people. Please understand what state the state is in, local self-government and Vojvodina. They're just not able to do this. Thank you. (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16178	Replica, MP Borislav Stefanovic. Given the subject, I've come to realize that it's the party and that's why I'm giving you the right to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16179	I wanted to look back on my colleague's exposure from across the street, but you're gonna let me look back in any direction, anyway. What is certain is that no one is trying to dispute the parts of the Republic of Serbia, that we have unfortunately heard more and more from the ranks of people from the ruling majority again, that these are unsustainable and untrue, that they have potentiated them, that they have caused this unnecessary debate, in a situation where the opposition wanted to further specify and allow the railways that are in poor condition, no matter why, at this point, I explain why they are in a bad state, that it is possible for someone else to participate in their possible maintenance. It's said - it can't because no municipality or province has any money. Well, there's not a single municipality, so let's get rid of the municipalities. So why does the political story and party story become potent, those who are bothered by the constitutionally arranged AP as an indivisible part of the Republic of Serbia and then get up here and talk about it, we don't want to argue, why we're fighting. I understood the criticisms directed towards the SPS, not towards us, because we didn't initiate this. We are only through the amendment that we support trying to see if this can be done for the benefit of the citizens or not. Instead of talking to arguments and saying – it can't because we don't either have legal options or we simply don't have the awareness that anyone else can make funds, then it's being transferred to the field of whether there's control on the bridge, bridges, passports or I don't know what or in 1945 evil, which was neither evil nor bad, which brought freedom to this country and which has brought decentralisation for which everyone now advocates. Which you're not up for now, but only during the election and then of course you agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16180	Mrs. Judita Popovic, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16181	Based on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16182	Whose exposure?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16183	I wrote the amendment and I'm the author of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16184	But I'm asking you whose exhibit is the replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16185	Well, a lot of people talked about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16186	No, you have no right. Thank you. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16187	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16188	I said you were wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16189	Then by amendment, I'll use the time of my authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16190	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unlike many who have been so shocked here, I am not really shocked anymore, nothing can shock me in Serbia, and especially in this House. Really. And get back to the point. The point is that this Article 9 provides for the possibility of transferring the management rights of railway infrastructure to both local self-government and the province of Vojvodina, but when there is no economic interest in the Serbian Railways. That's the problem, that's the point of the whole story. This means that Serbia's railways have no interest for various reasons in certain parts of the infrastructure, primarily because they treated the state-run assets in the absence of the funds, according to the citizens' funds, according to budget funds. That's actually the problem, and that's why it's a political issue in this Article 9. Because, among other things, the Yogurt Revolution has allowed us to come into a position that if the Serbian Railways no longer need anything, then Vojvodina can also take it into its jurisdiction. The principle is a problem, a principle that is so harmful and that is why we today live in Vojvodina in an undeveloped region. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16192	Are you reporting by amendment to Borislava Stefanovic? I think it's time for us to wrap up more discussion by amendment. To be clear, you can't convince each other. Please, and we'll be done. This is the last one. So, you run the controversy about the amendment and you won't solve the problem, be sure, only if you want us to outwit it now, because we have different attitudes. The MPs will decide whether to accept the amendment or not. Please, let's get this amendment over with. Here's Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16193	With all due respect, Comrade General, I don't know how we can discuss the amendment without controversy. I don't understand that, although I do know that you agree with me that in 1945 she brought freedom into this country. What's a fact, I must say, I also agree with the exposure of my predecessor in an attempt to explain this matter in a non-political, economic way and to explain it through the prism of life and Mr. Minister knows it. There is a place in Vojvodina that largely depended on or depends on traffic being carried out through the Shinobus on those tracks. These tracks are torn apart, the Shinobuses are rare and you can get faster on foot than on a train bus. The railroad doesn't have the means to maintain it because money is spent on other things and it's been going on for decades. This is the thing about the lives of people who are used and needful, and it is easier for them to live if they have such rail traffic that are definitely not of economic interest to the railways, nor for the state of Serbia of strategic or political or economic interest. But these stripes mean for these villages and they mean for those people who live there because they need to come either to work or to a center or to a doctor or to a school. There are hundreds of them in the Vojvodina. That's what this is all about, and those stripes have been brought to the state of Serbia. Let's give it a chance. If I remember correctly and Mr. Minister said yesterday that it was not a problem for him, so if it's no problem, let's get this right and move on without politics, without big words and memories of youth, work actions and landings and other things. That's unnecessary. I think this is a matter of whether someone is ready from Belgrade to give money to those Shinobuses to use or not. If it isn't, give it to me if anyone can in the future, it doesn't have to now. Leave that possibility. Leave no matter who's in power and where. Leave the possibility to consume the possibility if there is. If there's nothing we're talking about? What did we find out? The railroad doesn't have money, the state doesn't have money, the municipality doesn't have money, no one has money. Then he says, "What do we need?" I repeat, let's abolish the municipalities when there's no money. Let's end it all alive. What do we need anything for? We have the Serbian Government and the Assembly and we're done. That's completely pointless. Let the big words go, no one will fight us, no ramps, no borders, we know everything, it says in the Constitution, it says in the laws, let's see if people can do this. If he can, I'm sure, here's the minister. Mr. Minister, confirm the justification of this amendment, since yesterday you agreed in principle. I said I'd think about it. ) If you thought about it from yesterday to today, it would be convenient for you to tell us to avoid this debate, because I see, I feel this centrifugal force by the ruling parties to drag on the wetlands of their historic, political delusions. So if we don't get into that shit, let's just say if we can or can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16195	Mr. Zoran Babic, on what grounds? (Zoran Babic, from the post: By amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16196	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I cannot agree with the conclusion that there is no money. He's got money. There's money in the railroad, but then when it's done domestically, when it's done well, when it's done responsibly. Thus, Serbia's JPZ, which is a synonym for the loss of decades when it came into the right hands and in the right way, only through fuel for road vehicles in three months in the first quarter of this year, saved 10 million dinars, through fixed-line costs of two million dinars, through daily dinars in the country 21 million dinars, saved electricity for the tow of 30 million dinars, a commitment reduced by 100 million dinars, a debt for diesel fuel reduced from 360 million to 160, by 200 million dinars. So he's got money.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16197	Mr. Granny, please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16198	What I'm saying is, with that famous finding that truth can hurt, autonomy is a guaranteed category by the Constitution. The Serbian Progressive Party respects AP Vojvodina's autonomy. At every step and in every way we show it. That is why I will also use the words of the president of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, Mr Pastor, who mentioned here in this hall and how many legislative proposals in 2000 entered this National Assembly by the AP Vojvodina, and how many, barely two or three legislative proposals had a parliamentary debate, unlike this one called the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where everything that came from the AP had its own assembly debate. What we are fighting for, what has brought together two hundred thousand signatures, two hundred thousand people in Vojvodina want to change, wants a different government and a different government in Vojvodina, because for each mention and for every investigative action in Vojvodina Development Bank, the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, for every non-intentional spending of the Vojvodina reserve for election purposes, it is mentioned, is referred to by some secessionism. We can't let every investigative action and what the system needs to do, not politics, the system that needs to be done, the policy says, let's split up rather than let someone come and tell us what we did and how we did. That's what we're up against. We fight to respect the citizens' will wherever they live, and that will in Vojvodina says -- they don't want the regime anymore, they don't want the government of Bojan Pajtic anymore, they don't want the way it's done in Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16199	I ask the MPs to stick to the agenda. The amendments to Article 9 are currently on the agenda. Please stick to it. From now on, whoever starts discussing the other topic, I'll interrupt. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16200	Let's end the amendment to Article 9. Now the assistant explained to me that we could talk about it by tomorrow night. I take the obligation to put everything you said in one basket and make the final decision. I remind you, this government of the Republic of Serbia, and even the previous government, has never thought this politically of having Vojvodina split. And today, we've given five 10 trains from the Russian loan to Vojvodina. Two are in the Saturday knot, one is in Ruma, one is in the Pančevo – Vršac route, etc. So in this term, the government of the Republic of Serbia thinks so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16201	The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16202	Mr. Chairman, I want to talk about amendments to Article 9. Mr. Minister, you have on the table three versions of almost the same amendment. Thank you for saying there's still room for tomorrow night. We're ready to talk. No one talked about the negotiations. So we're ready to talk, and I believe the other colleagues who have submitted a similar amendment from LDP and LSV. We want to improve rail traffic in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I'm very glad we have support and DS. That's what I have to say and thank you publicly. I want to remind you that a year and a half ago we proposed very similar amendments, but since then, we've heard stories about the fact that it's absolutely inadmissible to make a completely different rail system every 10 minutes. Of course, it wasn't about that time, it's not about now. That is why I hope that there is still the possibility that any of these amendments may be adopted or some combination of these amendments. There were words about the Shinobuses. And a year and a half ago, I was talking about Silver Arrows. The people in Vojvodina know they're shinobuses. People in Vojvodina know that many of these Shinobuses, which are still on track today in Vojvodina, are produced for the Berlin Olympics. I believe you know, Mr. Minister, when the Olympics were in Berlin. It was a long time ago in 1936, and these "Silver Arrows" and today address the lines of the Republic of Serbia, by getting circumstances in Vojvodina, as well as on the tracks of the unique railway infrastructure of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, I want to help Mr. Minister a little bit and answer some of the accusations that we are looking for something that is absolutely unknown in Europe and that is absolutely unimaginable. It is about who can be the managers of rail infrastructure in various countries of Europe. Here, in Austria all possible forms of property are allowed, I speak for railway infrastructure. In Germany, DB Netze AG was organised on a regional principle with seven regions. In Italy, several railway companies operate in the transport of passengers and goods. The restructuring of the state railway was carried out in 2000, and the appearance of other operators began already in 2001. The railway infrastructure manager is Rete Ferrovia Italiana, which is organised on the regional principle of a total of 20 regions, according to the administrative organisation. In the Czech Republic, the national part of the regional railways is owned by the state, and part of the regional railways are privatised. In France decentralisation was carried out on a regional basis. Each region, and a total of 21, has its regional director. A railway company in France is working with local authorities. In Hungary, regional infrastructure is intended for public transport in the regions and is used mainly for the transport of passengers and is given to the management of local authorities. This is just a few examples of comparative practice. Please, Mr. Minister, consider these truly well-intentioned amendments. It's not the railroad law that's been passed every year. This law will apply for 10, 20 years. I really ask you to find some solution to make the law as high as possible and in the interest of all citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16203	The word has been given by MP Vojislav Vujic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16204	Yeah, according to the amendment. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thought the Minister's request would be respected with what he said. Since I see this continuing, I'm only going to ask the minister to give me an answer to two questions. If we all want to be pragmatic and operational, I believe these two questions will ultimately give one answer around which some controversy is being run for almost an hour. My first question for you, Mr. Minister, is it from your experience, which is absolutely not small, any situation where people in the province have addressed with a concrete request for co-financing or direct financing of any of the railways in Vojvodina? The second question, if we do not vote this amendment, and there are opportunities for them to be in a situation that they can also co-finance or finance, will someone forbid it?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16205	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16206	Let's close this topic. No one's come forward. That's normal, people don't know that. The second question, of course, is that no one will stop any financier from showing up to do it. I didn't respond to Mr. Pastor about this project. We've given principled consent, although you don't need consent to such a job. You could have done these projects without our consent. It was a little misunderstanding. So you can activate all you want. One thing I'm asking you to understand, this law is not final for life. Its goal is, above all, to finally complete the restructuring of the railway, to create this national infrastructure programme that is very important, that we can control and adopt it here and create conditions for opening the market. It is the essence of the law, that conditions are finally created so that we can open our market. Another thing in the end, to finally start thinking about combined transport, what we put completely into the other plan, and what today is the basic way of transport in Europe. These are the objectives of the law and in this direction this law provides great opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16207	The word has been given by MP Judita Popovic, according to the amendment? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16208	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, I really hope that you really understand the importance and the vital interest of rail traffic in Serbia. I hope that you of these three amendments, which LDP MPs, SVM and LSV have submitted, will be able to take what is most important, concrete and most favourable to the overall rail system. As you have now said, what is the key reason for this law, I will tell you that it is crucial in these amendments that we really want infrastructure management to be passed on to those who are most interested in that system and it works. It's your local self-government and your province. Unfortunately, throughout the discussion, for this very reason, because this member of the 9th political one was overly discussed Vojvodina, the province, about Belgrade's attitude towards Novi Sad. However, it was somehow forgotten that local self - administrations are also there, which are also interested in this rail traffic in their territories. Therefore, I really hope that it will not remain an empty promise, but that you will literally realize that you are writing this law, as you said, not for a month, in six months, but for a year, but for a longer period of time, and that it is actually one, I apologize, one way that you will organize the railways of Serbia. Apparently, the organization so far has not met the needs of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16209	National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Ivan Andric, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta together submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is contrary to Article 34. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about two key things in this article 10. The first one concerns, but it's all about the license for the management of the railway infrastructure. The first change we propose is actually about the possibility of abuse, corruption and the like. The second amendment we propose concerns knowledge and expertise. So let's go back to that first change we're proposing. So far, experience tells us that it is not enough for you to deny a license to manage railway infrastructure only for those who are already legally convicted of some criminal acts, or for some economic offenses, but rather to extend it a little bit and consider whether a person who applies for the license is being prosecuted? The answer to why you haven't adopted this part of the amendment in the government's explanation is that this is how you violate the presummation of innocence. I think the presummation of innocence is a very good institute. It is very useful and it is very important for developed, organised societies, democratic societies. However, Serbia is in such a situation, and it seems to me that the fight against organised crime and corruption has become a priority here. If so, if the state has recognised the biggest problems of this country as corruption and organised crime, it would be good for systems, such as the Serbian Railways, to be handled. Therefore, if a Serbian citizen, if he wants to apply for a job, applies for a job, must prove that he is not convicted, or that no investigation is conducted against him. In that case, wouldn't it be useful for one who applies to obtain a license to manage railway infrastructure, too, to seek proof that no criminal investigation is being conducted against him right now? I think that's reasonable. This is the part of the question of whether we really think about regulating the management of systems in terms of deviation towards the possibility of committing crimes, that is, corruption, too. As for the second part of this amendment, it relates, in fact, to that relationship or. The law says you need both knowledge or experience. I think that's the problem. It can't rule out knowledge experience or experience knowledge. Shouldn't it be useful for knowledge and experience to be combined as a condition for obtaining that licence under this Article 10. A bill of law? These are two key things about expertise and integrity, one that will one day get that license to run the railway infrastructure. Why is that especially important? I'm going to tell you an example of one ignorance and maybe intricacies, so lack of experience, when you didn't have the intended experience and knowledge, and maybe it's some kind of corruption, some kind of abuse. This concerns the oldest credit arrangements. The oldest credit arrangement, Mr. Minister, is just being held by the Serbian Railways. The credit arrangement comes from 2006, and 80m euros. That used 43.2%. Realisation is a failure, or zero. Of these 80m euros, abuse, committing a crime, ignorance, inexperience, inexperience, nearly half, or 30 to 40m euros, the realisation is zero, where is that money? Normally, pens are also paid if the credit arrangement does not withdraw as provided for in the contract. It's a small example of what it looks like when you treat it lightly. Who will apply you, among other things, to railway infrastructure management licenses? Is he going to be a convicted person or is he going anywhere after he gets that license, we're going to be convicted? What does that mean? That if he's convicted, and he's already got that license, he can still use that license. It's just inadmissible. As far as this other person is concerned, you know best that experience is necessary with knowledge. Somehow knowledge is empty if it has no experience, and so is experience if it has no knowledge. I hope that the Director-General of the Railways of Serbia is a person who responds, as far as integrity is concerned, both in terms of unjudgment, as well as in terms of knowledge and experience, i.e. expertise.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16211	The word has a minister, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16212	So this is no longer in my jurisdiction. I will read – The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has discussed this amendment and considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 34. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16213	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16214	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand in one hand the promoter, and in the other I don't understand. Therefore, the infrastructure management licence cannot be obtained by persons who are legally convicted of serious criminal offences and commercial offences. This is also in the proposal submitted by the ministry, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment promoter added – and persons against whom criminal proceedings are being conducted. If we respect the presumption of innocence, the persons against whom the criminal proceedings are conducted do not have to be convicted. Therefore, if we prevent the application for a licence from being granted to persons against whom any criminal proceedings are being conducted, because the proposer did not, unlike the Government, separate serious criminal acts and commercial offences, but announced and suggested that the licence cannot be issued to the person against whom any criminal proceedings are being conducted. Any criminal act and convicted of criminal acts and commercial crimes is a big difference. Em's difference, the defendant's face doesn't have to be convicted, and often various criminal charges are filed, we're witnessing, for political reasons. Politically insinuation, including competition, economic competition in certain areas, can often and often know that they are setting up various criminal proceedings, including criminal proceedings filed on the basis of tax returns. So, they know each other, as our people say, that they're setting up criminal charges in such a way as to deprive themselves of competition when competing to issue a license. The amendment promoter has just proposed that the applicant may not be a person against whom criminal proceedings are being conducted, whether or not he is later convicted. I would understand the promoter that he added after this – and the person against whom a criminal offence is being prosecuted for serious crimes and commercial crimes if they are convicted. I would support that kind of amendment. This, unfortunately, I can't, because it violates the right of one whose fault is not legally proven to apply for this license. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16215	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 10 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16216	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment to Article 10(4) came out of the previous amendment to my amendment, so in consultation with the assistant minister of traffic, it was accepted as an amendment to the Committee of Resolution. I'm surprised he's not fully accepted. In fact, in the Bill of Law, when it comes to this member, and it concerns a railway infrastructure management licence, you have provided that the condition relating to expertise is met if the applicant has an administration that has the knowledge or experience necessary to ensure a reliable way of carrying out, operational control and supervision of the performance of the work, which are listed in the licence. My remark, my amendment was, which was partly covered by the amendment submitted by the resolution board, that the administration that has knowledge and experience must also have staff who are professionally and qualified to organise and regulate rail traffic. I'm surprised you didn't accept this part of the amendment that applies, because according to the proposed solution, it would mean that a license can be obtained by a applicant who has knowledge, and has no experience or if he has experience and has no knowledge. Here I would insist that the motionary accept a face that has both knowledge and experience. Why is he shutting each other down? I think there is room in this form to complete this amendment proposed by the resolution committee. So, why wasn't there room to accept both knowledge and experience, but you put ultimate knowledge or experience? I think it would be much more convenient if my proposal had been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16217	The 10th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications did not accept the amendment with the correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Mirna Kosanovic and Dr Ivan Bauer. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16218	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, in the next hour and a half, I thought we were discussing the Statute of Vojvodina, not the Law of Railways. But it's a good thing we're back on the agenda. So, you can see that the law has caused a great controversy between us MPs and the general public, and also with the railroaders themselves who said that, that's what I said in the debate in principle, that they are not satisfied with this law and that the application of this law begins an unequal game, especially for our operator. They feel that at this point they cannot adequately answer this law. In fact, like I said, there is going to be an unequal game where there will be primarily favored operators and where there will be discriminating operators. So, the absurdity is even greater that our railway does not have all the permits, licenses, certificates to carry goods and passengers across Serbia's territory. However, smart countries, as we have said, have dealt with it in a smart way before the liberalisation of the railway market was set up in their countries. They gave both licenses and permits and certificates to their national operators, thus saving one resource, saving jobs. By passing this law, our operator will have to apply as well as everyone else interested in the Railway Directorate, to be allowed both the license and the permit to carry out their duties. Also, many countries, serious countries have modernised their operators, and then they have liberalised their market. As DSS, we've responded amendment to this law. We have submitted 21 amendments in total. You've accepted four of them. We expected you to accept much more, because our amendments were established, exceeded, and in principle we wanted to help you, as legislator and legislator, regarding this activity. But what's there is. We have submitted an amendment to Article 14 which reads, in Article 14 following Article 2, a new position 3 is added, which reads: "Infrastructure manager, in carrying out his activity, is obliged to take care of the protection of the population from noise and electrocution in accordance with the law and other regulations." So it's a legal provision, a railway infrastructure management license. In this way we wanted to oblige the infrastructure manager to do all the appropriate jobs so that our compositions could travel uninterruptedly, so that our passengers would be safe, given that in most cities, retailes in all cities, the railways were passing through the city's core. This creates certain dangers. First of all, we thought that the railway infrastructure manager first of all provided quality electricity-related infrastructure, where there had been many electrical shocks in the past, not to mention now and the victims who had suffered from negligence at that moment. Also, what we wanted with this amendment is to help people who are near the railroad, whose apartments or houses are next to the railroad. They don't know when it's day, when it's night because of the great noise of trains and locomotives themselves. That was our intention. We expected you to accept this amendment, because it doesn't disturb this member of your law. For this reason, we ask you to reconsider whether there is any possibility of accepting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16219	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16220	Let me answer it right now. So this is not accepted just because this matter is regulated by the law on the protection of the human environment. So he defined it there and there's no problem. Everything you say will be respected through that law. We'd double the other law here now, and there's no need for that. Otherwise, you're absolutely right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16221	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16222	Just because you mentioned this law that doesn't exist, Mr. Minister, there is no law on the protection of the human environment, but the Nature Protection Act, you probably thought of it. We have written such an amendment because we want to draw attention to a very important area, which is the area of environmental protection. Mr. Pejcic, in the name of our joint parliamentary group, has really focused his exposure on the second part of our amendment, where we have talked about electric shocks, but we insist that we really take care and that serious approaches to environmental protection, you mention it in attitude 2, I see what you are looking at, but we are focused on some other facts. There are several laws that regulate this area, and from the protection of the environment are, say, the law on protection against noise, the Act on the Protection of Nature and similar laws that are really very much related to this matter that we are talking about today. But on the other hand, knowing that the state, i.e. the government, singles out only 0.2% of the environmental budget, knowing that the Environment Fund was abolished, which would fund these projects, we're also potentiating what you've put into attitude 2 here, introducing a new attitude 3, where we mention environmental protection. It's a very important area. We, as a state, have defined ourselves to be our third pillar of sustainable development. I must mention that we are not investing enough funds and I must mention that here, almost throughout the law, as well as this law which is now in force, the 2005 law, we are talking about a directive 91/440 that has done a lot for rail traffic, but on the other hand it has done just as much to destroy the environment and it is one of the problems in the application of that directive, which in many parts of the EU have given up the application of this directive and has not been implemented until the end. That's why we insist you take care of it. You, in the end, as well as in the 2005 law, really do well separate infrastructure on the one hand and transport on the other. It is, as far as we are concerned, quite fine, but I ask you to pay attention to environmental protection, as a very important part of the development of this country, because we are talking about sustainable development and sustainable development will only be possible when we respect the laws. You're saying the Law on Railways has no direct connection, but it has very indirect connections, even direct links to environmental protection. I think you should consider accepting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16223	Thank you. No one's answering again. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted the 15th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16224	Thank you. Otherwise, I talked about this article, because I think it's very problematic, and when it was a debate in principle, so I apologize if I repeat those same arguments, because that's just the way it is. We propose an amendment to delete a complete member of the 15th, because the article through three positions provides that the infrastructure manager can suspend public transport of passengers and goods on railway infrastructure where transport is not profitable. If we go back, I think it was Article 7, among other things, it's obvious that you and the bill predict that even the infrastructure manager can be an entrepreneur, so when we put the two together, it's interesting that some entrepreneur who thinks he's no longer being paid to manage that part of the infrastructure because he's not rentable, by his standards, can suspend public transportation of passengers and goods. I think this kind of observation of Serbia's complete rail system at all, I don't think other countries are doing it, that it's not good, because rail traffic is much more and more important than mere rentability and economic interests. So that's where you have to take care of military-security interests. Well, if you want, good rail is in function and population policy. So, if we have, as we have, unfortunately, especially some border areas from where the population is moving from, then at this point, a lot of such shares, where traffic, transportation of passengers and goods is not profitable. If we decide not to invest, to rebuild that infrastructure, and then that controller decides to remove the complete, because there is no economic interest, then the border areas that are already empty, it will be in an even worse position. These are also undeveloped areas. To make an area interesting to some future investors, he primarily looks at the energy situation, whether the area has gas, as energy, and then sees how traffic is connected, etc. Not to spread that story, I think this is a bad member and a bad opportunity at all. You, in your explanation, normally answer the arguments that I ask for removal and you tell me – these protect the economic interests of the infrastructure manager. That's exactly why I'm proposing this amendment. I don't think the economic interests of the infrastructure manager can be the only criterion for whether there's going to be a railway or not. We are also in the debate in principle, I was talking about the Pyrot County, the minister spoke about the state of the railway infrastructure from Nis to Dimitrovgrad. This railroad is absolutely inconclusive. I think there's a passenger train now. Although, as I said, we're lucky it's part of the corridor, so it's practically an international corridor. Otherwise, if it wasn't, that railroad would have been lifted long ago. The reason why it's inert is bad infrastructure, which travels for three hours, one share that passes by car in 40 minutes or an hour. I want to point again to the Pyrotic County and the situation in which the Babušnica Municipality is located. They don't have railways, and if we adopt laws like this, where it's strictly viewed as rentability, they'll never have it. What's blackest is the road from Piroth to Babusnica and the White Palanca is in catastrophic condition. Now we return again, even the minister may remember, because before winter, the people of Babusnica tried to intervene and feared what would happen in the winter period, just thinking about how local self-government on one side and the other, on the side of the Pirot and on the other side of the White Palanca, what would be the cleaning of these roads, which they made mandatory to local self-governments. It took a few days for the winters that people could not even make such a terrible journey to their community, that they were practically wrapped up and had to call for the help of a road that was not a job at that time. What I'm trying to say is, with this attitude, we're practically condemning these undeveloped areas to underdevelopment and in the future. How will this investor take an interest in a city like Babusnica, Babusnica is a city in Serbia and there are some citizens living, how will he even be interested in opening, say, a new drive, if his path is terrible and there is no railway, and that in favour of the development of new routes, I suppose?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16225	Thank you. National MP Momir Stojanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16226	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree with what my esteemed colleague Banovic has said, perhaps we should think completely about removing this article from the bill, because they will hit the most rural areas, undeveloped areas. It is generally known that rail transport is cheaper than road transport and when it comes to goods and passenger traffic. I don't think there's any need for this member to remain in the bill. I have proposed an amendment to this article and my reasons for being instructed is that this is the first time that a decision on the declaration is being removed, i.e. the suspension of traffic at the part of the railway infrastructure to which it is estimated to be inert, the decision is being transferred from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In talks with representatives of the resolution ministry, when we discussed this amendment, I was assured that such a solution would be - that the government could suspend the traffic at the part of the railway infrastructure that was estimated to be inert, but could not lift that part of the railway infrastructure and remain in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. So I withdrew my earlier amendment, but, given my colleague Banovic's arguments, it is quite justified to ask whether this article in the bill should be kept, because it will most affect the very population in the rural areas of our Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16227	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16228	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I did not want to report for both amendments, so I will say that I will support one of these two amendments, whether Mr Stojanovic or Mrs Banovic, for the simple reason that this Article 15 is not a very happy solution. That's what we have to agree on. It is said in point 1 – the infrastructure manager may suspend the public transport of passengers and goods on railway infrastructure or part of infrastructure on which public transport of passengers and goods becomes inconclusive, with the consent of the Government. I understand that transporting passengers and goods by rail is not at all profitable. So there's no criteria here for the infrastructure manager to choose what he wants to close for traffic. So, our complete tracks are so far inert. It does not say here – where non-refundability is increased in relation to other railways or other solutions, so that it can see what is absolutely inert that is very burdensome and does not give adequate effect in the transport of passengers and goods or, for example, villages along the lines are completely extinct, as threatens to happen, so there is no need for this railway or local section to exist and manage it. I disagree with counterpart Stojanovic that the driver cannot lift the track. Paragraph 2 states – the railway infrastructure or part of which the public transport of passengers and goods can be suspended for other purposes and can be converted into a manipulative rail for other reasons and can be prescribed by the conditions and method of use. So, after obtaining the consent of the Government, whoever closed the traffic can use that railway for other purposes, for other purposes, and prescribe conditions and method of use. It can also be for tourist purposes. In this second position, it can remain that way, but I also think that there should be some agreement by the government that the driver who suspends traffic in the railway area, when he wants to change his purpose, also needs the government's consent if he wants to redecorate it for some tourism and other purposes, and still after the government's consent to suspend traffic, he has the right to manage the share. He can use it for other purposes, and he doesn't need the government's consent anymore, which I don't think is a happy enough solution. Also, I'd like to say that in attitude 3, too, it's not a very happy solution when it's tied to attitude one. It would be good if before we get the government's consent, what it says in Section 3. - the infrastructure manager is obliged to forward the decision to suspend the transport referred to in Article 1 of this Article to railway undertakings for their own use, to AP authorities, to local self-government authorities and to publish in the daily lists. It all happens in the end. It is impossible for any of their reactions, any of their possible transport and other rebellions or demands to the government not to issue that kind of consent. It would be good if it were combined, that the government could give consent, but before informing the AP, the local self-governments to which the share is concerned, to notify before granting consent and the carriers for their own needs or the carriers on those tracks that they know before receiving the government's consent that the controller wants to stop traffic on that stake and that they have the right to take those measures. So, I'd like to ask the legislator to try to find some solution from these two members. Mr. Stojanovic went by closing the traffic with about a final decision, that the government would go ahead of the National Assembly and that it would then be the National Assembly that would give approval to close the railway section, i.e. suspending transport. I think that the bill promoter certainly had a good intention, but that he should have brought attitude 1 into line with attitude 3, or attitude 2, that it was not possible to redecorate the railway for other activities without the consent of the Government that was given to the closure of traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16229	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16230	I didn't think I'd answer by this article. So if there wasn't a member of the 15th to regulate the obligation to suspend transport, then it would only be chaos. Then the company could shut down and fire whatever it wants. Article 62 regulates the suspension, i.e. the removal of the railway, and this is brought by the Assembly. So there is a Article 15, that somehow creates the conditions to make a decision. Personally, I don't know in this government mandate if we'll ever talk about it, let me tell you right now, but let's not get attached to it. The law has to be permanent. I'm sure this Article 15 must exist. Maybe let's see what Mr. Risticevic and Mr. Stojanovic say, including Mrs. Donka, to redecorate him, but Article 15 must remain. This guarantees the infrastructure manager's obligation to regulate the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16231	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16232	I fully agree with the minister's opinion that there is only one small addition to the government's consent, that one who gets the government's consent to shut down should seek the government's consent and open the railway for some other purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16233	Thank you. The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers and representatives of the government, we said that one law would be applied by the state must be strong throughout its territory. We know that at this point Serbia has no authority regarding Kosovo and that this government is slowly moving away from the works of the territory. The other thing, to apply the law, is that it has quality rail infrastructure, which means it has high-quality railroads, it has high-quality trains, compositions, wagons, and now what the state of our railway is, you all know that, in one word, it's catastrophic, given that this situation is also in our country. First of all, it would be good to mention what our country has from infrastructure, we're talking about rail infrastructure, so 3,800 kilometers of rails that are 40 to 60 years old, 7% of the two-wheel tracks, one-third of the electric rails, our locomotives are about 40 years old, and they're running at a speed of over 40 kilometers per hour on average. For these reasons, I said the situation, our infrastructure state, as far as the railways are concerned, was catastrophic. What is also important, and what we haven't talked about today, is that, if the state doesn't react by chance to Corridor 10 and to the Belgrade Line – at least that many European trains you want to attach to will bypass us and go to Corridor 10, and we will continue to drive to Ciro and Sargarska 8, that is unacceptable. I also assume for this government that it will make a lot of efforts to address some shortcomings even as far as these bus tracks are being poured into this Corridor 10 and that railway Belgrade – at least that it will invest a lot of funds. It takes about ten years to invest four to five billion in order for the railways to be competitive and to carry as many goods and passengers as possible on those tracks. We also reacted to Article 18 to the amendment regarding the provision of access to the use of railway infrastructure. Our intention, our intensity was above all, as I said to improve the text of the law, but also to point out to you, Mr. Minister, that certain things may change. So we were looking at Article 18, paragraph 1, after the word "use of railway infrastructure" is added in detail, that means for a complete review of railway infrastructure, the rest of the text remains the same. In the same article, Article 4 adds a new position of 5, which is to say – the infrastructure manager is obliged to immediately notify railway undertakings and railway undertakings, then, his own need for a change of data in the statement of the network. What's this about? Since we've had a lot of train accidents and our current operator who's been doing this part of the job has not responded adequately and has not reported to the engineers that there are problems on the railways, it would be good for you to accept this amendment. What did you say to us? You told us not to accept this amendment for one simple reason because its contents are already provided for in Article 19. It's a bill of law. However, article 19 says something else. The statement of the network and its alterations and additions brings and publishes the controller, he does bring and manage, but we asked for it to be placed immediately. So, if it were to react immediately, there'd be no accidents. For this reason, I expect Mr. Minister, from this overexplanatory explanation that you will accept this amendment or be fully complemented by this Article 19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16235	Thank you. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted the 20th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers the amendment with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a good thing we've finally returned our story to the law and the amendments we've submitted. I have to remind you of that infamous score that we, as the political party that has submitted the amendments, have, we can't seem to convince you that some of these things that are very based and on the knowledge of those who helped us write this, and God and some real life, are arguments in favour of this to accept the amendments. Of course, I will return to the amendment that we submitted to article 20 is – the allocation of infrastructure capacity above this article. Article 20 itself refers to requirements for the assignment of train routes. In paragraph 2, you have written – a request for the assignment of the train route is submitted for a year, and no later than ten months before the start of the new driving order. I don't understand why you think it's necessary to confuse those who apply to the train route, that there's a possibility that it's ten months, and then it gives you a maximum of 12 months. I think it's simply much simpler to say that a year before the driving order expires, it's the time limit when they can apply, especially when what we have suggested, so to delete this ten-month period, to stay only for a year, especially now bring it into contact with the next position you have written – at the end of the deadline set out in Article 2 of this article, a request for the assignment of a train route which is not allocated and to conclude contracts on the use of railway infrastructure can be submitted. So let's translate that into real life. For those of the most interesting paths there will be many who want to apply, right? Then they will apply either ten months, or 12 months before the end of this row of driving, but how will they know who will have the advantage, the one who applied ten months ago, the one who was 11 or the one who was 12 years ago. Then who's gonna get to the girl first, what would I say? Who's going to get that route if you've given different deadlines? For what remains, then you leave a new deadline – they can also report later. You know what, I'm afraid you'll know again who the rest of them are. It's not regulated by this law, if you're going to make new rules, I'm afraid there's going to be a terrible mess for those who want to apply. I think it's very simple. You say a year and all those applying a year before the timetable expires have the right to take the route. They report within that one time period and have no possibility of thinking about whether the one before me will use the right to report within 11 months or in ten months. So, for all of them, the same conditions. Then what remains is not to write – they can, but you say now there is another term that you will give and in that time they can report and apply. It's a lot simpler for me. Maybe there's some kind of rhythm in the rail system now, so it seems to you that he's adopted as a rule and that he's simple, but he's afraid that they're not the same conditions for all competitors. I just think that the state has to make sure that different carriers appear, because you're offering that possibility and that there will be a collapse in that case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16237	Just to let the DSS know that they've only got a minute and 30 seconds left from the parliamentary group, and a mandated representative for nine minutes. National MP Momir Stojanovic submitted to the 21st amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16238	The amendment to Article 23(1) is simple. We propose to delete two words, i.e. the words "rule", but I will read the whole point – the infrastructure manager normally assigns the train route once a year following the alignment of the requirements for the assignment of the train track in the process of drawing up the timetable etc. We suggest erasing the word "by the book" because when you put it like that and you have the word "by the rule" in the law, then it means that you have no rules at all, or that you can do something one way, another way, etc. However, what is good, therefore, this amendment is good, and what shows that it is good is that you adopted the amendment of counterpart Stojanovic, which is exactly the same. Now there's the problem of how you're going to treat that purified text if you accept one amendment, which is exactly the same, and the other amendment that you refused. I don't think that's where you made it. I don't know who, you in the ministry, or our congregation service, but this isn't the way, but it happened when we pointed out that the same amendments, the two amendments, one of them you accepted, the other one you refused, then it was settled by accepting this amendment, if you accepted the amendment from your colleague Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16239	Thank you. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojić Markovic jointly submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16240	Mr. Chairman, given the time we have left, I cannot fully explain what I wanted. This Article 24 refers to the allocation of infrastructure capacity, and in paragraph 1, you say – during the planning process of driving order under Article 23 of this Act, when it comes to conflicting different requirements, the infrastructure manager seeks to ensure the best possible compliance of all requirements through coordination. I just don't see what you're trying to tell us here. I guess there are some legal procedures and some clear criteria. Why would you need coordination to require this through coordination requires security. We think you should delete this and predict clear procedures. This coordinate requires you to delete. Then, in point 3, you say – the infrastructure manager seeks to seek to reach a solution to all disputes through coordination with the applicant. We predicted it would be wiped out. We again ask that there are clear legal procedures and that these clear legal procedures are applied, and that you let these stories go that you are now requesting coordination to lead to some solution to reduce disputes. Disputes can only be reduced if laws are respected, there are no other problems. Finally, in the case of disputes relating to the allocation of infrastructure capacity, a dispute settlement system shall be provided in order to resolve such disputes in a timely manner, and the following sentence – if this system of application has to be made within 10 working days, regardless of the proceedings under appeal. We simply think that you are wrong here and that it is very important to say – in order for such disputes to be resolved in good time to be erased. You write for 10 days, that's enough for me. Here, a little bit, a little bit, so I look at this shadow minister of yours, as I expect him to react to my amendment, since you ministers are not responding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16241	The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Makrovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16242	Thank you. This amendment concerns Article 25. It practically consists of three parts. Or we have three changes in attitude three, fourth and fifth. This member speaks of the possibility of concluding a framework agreement between the infrastructure manager and the applicant for use, and that idea is fine. The existence of this framework agreement, but it is not okay in paragraph 3, is again referred to as the possibility that you see in the law as a rule, so it says - the framework agreement contains a detailed route of the train, but meets the legitimate commercial needs of the applicant and is concluded by the rule of five years. So he can do it for five years, but he doesn't have to. So we're suggesting that we delete the words by the book. Then, Article 4, I simply have to read it in order to explain what it is – in special cases, the infrastructure manager can agree to a shorter or longer period, each period longer than five years, by operating commercial contracts, dedicated investments or risks. I don't think people who watch them make that temporary deal will be clear. We suggest erasing this attitude and changing attitude 5 in order for it to be clear and the 5th position – an exceptional period may be longer than five years, but not more than 10 years, when it comes to long-term investment of large scale and when such investment is covered by contractual obligations. If you accept this amendment, then everything will be clear, at least at five, and for 10 years at most.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16243	The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic to Article 33. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Momir Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16244	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear MPs, if I exceed the time allowed, I will use time from the MP's group. This proposed amendment was not accepted on the grounds that it did not comply with the Budget Law, even though the Assistant Minister told me so, and crucially in the proposal did, sources of funding for railway infrastructure. One of the solutions that we discussed in the debate in principle is that today it is unknowable that in the context of the charging of the excise on fuel, the Railway pays and the road, although it is known that the Railway does not use the roads. With that, my amendment also applies to the fact that the Railway does not pay in the context of paying excise duties, the fuel purchased and the road, but at least as explained by the department of the department, that is not possible for now. Mr. Minister, I would use the amendment to this article to briefly, and you know very well what the situation on the Railways is, but my discussion will refer to the subjective weaknesses today, to ignore objective, long-term weaknesses, and I ask you to, within your ministry, which is a phenomenon throughout Serbia, in all public enterprises, ministries, and also in the railways of Serbia, that our directors of these public enterprises are from one of the political options, and ministers are the resolute ministry from others, assistant ministers from third countries. What the soldiers would say to me is that it is necessary to establish a single hierarchy in decision-making when it comes to every public enterprise, including the Serbian Railways. I personally think that, apart from the Prime Minister, you, as a resolute minister, in the township of responsibility for the state of the railway station, should have been your assistant for rail traffic, you have an assistant for air traffic, an assistant for road traffic, it's the same situation with JAT, but to talk about the railway. I'm not motivated by anything, but I can see that in every ministry, there's one problem in yours that looks like this. Although you have the director of "Serb Railway", for example, I speak only figuratively, which is from one political option, you are a minister from another political option, then it is logical that in the hierarchical sense you as a minister, and then below you be your assistant for rail traffic, and then the director and that you have to set it up in every public enterprise, because the directors of public enterprises, when they don't like something from your assistant or you, immediately complain to their party leader and say – well, no, that doesn't oblige me. You will agree, as an experienced man, that today is a problem in every public enterprise in Serbia. Until we form a unique hierarchical responsibility, we cannot count on some major success in that. So I'm asking you strategically to do this first. Secondly, in strategic terms, what the soldiers would say to me is an urgent liberalisation of the railway market. I talked to your assistant, and I like his thinking, and we're afraid of foreign operators, and that's why we're not going into it. Let's start at a few stages to do it, to work on the sideline rail infrastructure, let's not be so alarming about Corridor 10, so let's see how it works, to divide it into a few stages, first, second, third phase, so it's some regional traffic, so let's go to this main one and look at it. The liberalisation with the concession we talked about is necessary, the liberalisation of the railway market is necessary. In the operating sense where the problems are today at the Railways? Who is Mr. Minister responsible for paying the penalty for not withdrawing approved loans? We don't even have the responsibility today for those who haven't been granted loans, which is why the Railways, or the state and the budget, are paying for huge foams. What's the railroad gonna do with a huge surplus of storage space that's already stocked? These storage spaces along the entire railway infrastructure are empty today, the buzz is empty, the railroad pays the prescribed city tax and the area is empty. Isn't it possible for the Railways Management to find the possibility to issue that space to someone for use and pay a fee? I believe that because of your obligations you are unable to tour, but in all Serbia's territory, there is a huge space that sounds empty today, and for that "The Railway" pays city taxes. What's the railroad gonna do with a building in Makish that has 13 floors, Mr. Minister? Turn it empty. Why does the Railways Directorate have to be located in a luxury building in Germany and why are all the elements of the Railways scattered today in many locations in Belgrade, not concentrated in the building, and this business space in Germany is also incomed by the Railways? Why doesn't the entire infrastructure of the Railways concentrate, or the elements of the leadership infrastructure of the Railways, in one place in that building of the thirteen-story, I repeat, in Makish, which sounds empty and for that I suppose I haven't been able to check the Railways Directorate's pay safely in the lease of this building or in Germany? Maybe it's her property. Will the new management, now a little bit criticise the new management, since the director of the Railways is from my party, whether to abolish his decision to abolish the so-called. "Driving slot"? I don't know if you know Mr. Minister, since the arrival of the new management, the realisation of freight train traffic has changed, i.e. The so-called "no" has been abolished. "I'm cutting trains." What does that mean in practice? For example, the operating department in Novi Sad cannot start a train from Novi Sad to Belgrade if there is no return gross for Novi Sad in Belgrade. So, in Novi Sad, it can wait for three, four trains in Belgrade, until a train that drives some goods to Novi Sad arrives from Belgrade. So, on the one hand, we don't have enough locomotives, or we're piling them up just because there's no empty train coming from Belgrade, so we've come to that increase in gross tonne-kilometre, we've reduced the engine mode, but there's significantly extended transportation deadlines. No one here takes care of the transport deadlines prescribed by both the railway regulations and the law and the contracts in railway transport. There's no one here to take care of the goods, for example. Customs, and it needs to get out of the country within a certain time, and it's important that it's not just so-called. "Empty running of locomotives." Who controls the central accounts and checks the validity and regularity of them? Mr. Minister, I draw your attention to the central accounts of the Railways, it's a special story, it's the biggest kept secret in the "Serb Railways" today, it's a secret of secrets and it's only known to a narrow circle of people, who serve for manipulation, machination, various manipulations. What's the transport price after the central account? The mere mortals on the railroad are unknown. Anyone who asks questions on the subject is risking their shifts, shagging and being told nicely – mind your own business. For example, I would ask you, Mr. Minister, to listen to me, while the car was loaded with a concentrate of copper ore in Majdanpek, towards a smelter in Bora, I knew that they were standing in Majdanpek for ten days, until the lemons from the station of Prahovo, the dust docks, left almost within time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16245	Mr. Stojanovic, please, I've read your amendment now, what you're talking about now has nothing to do with the amendment. I understand, it's a principle debate, I understand the need to discuss this problem, but it should have been discussed in principle. The amendment that you have submitted is quite different, and please, you are required to stick to the agenda, which means that the amendment that is being discussed, at that point in the agenda, and please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16246	I do not agree with you, the Honorable Chairman, because in Article 33's 1st position, the state of affairs, the management infrastructure accounts are the result of a balance of revenue from fees for the use of railway infrastructure, income and expenditure, etc. I'm talking about where the income problems are, the Honorable Chairman. I'm talking about revenue spilling out of the railroad, so let me finish what I wanted to bring to Mr. Secretary. So, I'm talking about income and I'm talking about where income is being drained.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16247	I'm still convinced, I won't take your word for it, but still because of the other MPs, I am convinced that you are still past the agenda topic. I don't know, there's a minister and there's people. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16248	Let's compromise, I won't make it, although I think it's good for both the minister and the public and for the overall state of the railway, but I'll hand it over to the assistant minister. I'd like to ask you, I said, a problem of central accounting and control of the same, please, so they need to deal with the competent authorities. Mr. Minister, it is necessary to reform the union organisation, because expenditures, I am talking about expenditures, the chairman, I have a review here and I can give it, and the minister knows what the cost of the daily, the use of hotel services, foreign exchanges, various trade unions that have 37 and instructed you, Mr. Minister, that an act under number 05/2009-347 since 8.12.2009, which was sent to the Management Board by the working group, led by Dusan Jaksic, check and determine why the "Serb Railway" union has twice been wrongly paid 23 million dinars. I can give you this act, and I'm saying that there are a lot of questions about this, and there's work to be done for the competent authorities, which seems to me to have long since been reviewed by the laws of the railway business. Change of collective contract, one of the assignments, I don't know if you know how it works on the railroad? For example, I don't know if you know that the A.D. "Serb Railway" will soon go bankrupt if it loses all the disputes against it by its workers, i.e. All those who have shift jobs, and those are on the railway about 10,000 times somewhere, on average 200,000 dinars, so you see what the amount is. Why does the new management not change the collective contract by which the amount of a warm meal enters the labour price, which means in translation that the director who has the coefficient of 6.5 receives three times the amount of workers who, for example, has a coefficient of 2.08? It is necessary to change and review the collective agreement. Mr. Minister, we're coming up with a painful question, and that's human resources reform at the Railways. I don't know how much you know, if you run an analysis, your ministry, who's been running the railroad for the last 12 years, who's been in the executive positions? Just changed places are traffic engineers, school buddies, childhood acquaintances. Check out how many new people are in the management of "Serb Railways", and you will conclude that in one government, one was in one position, the other on the other, in another government, this one returned to its position and it is circulating. Staff spending in the Railways of Serbia is essential, Mr. Minister. In the end, with thanks for listening to me, although a lot of this month I've been trying to find out about "The Railways of Serbia", the situation is very bad. I am prepared and ask for a conversation with people who are 40 years old at the Railways, very well familiar with the state of the Railways, that your assistant for rail traffic, you and the director of the Railways of Serbia. I would like to attend such a meeting where I would be pleased to present all the evidence and all the problems facing today "The Railway of Serbia". It would certainly have drawn priorities from this and probably ordered the "Serbian Railways" management to remove it. Without it, I don't think any of the best laws will be able to solve the problems of "Serb Railways". I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16249	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16250	Dear Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr Minister, I am advocating to Members 106 and 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In Article 106, the speaker is said to be able to speak only about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted, and Article 109 says that the reminders are being made to the MP who, in addition to the warning of the National Assembly president, speaks of issues that are not on the agenda. All day long, except for the story of amendments, there are topics about what used to happen. It's just that we all have a feeling that just as the SNS came to power, a new era began. It is simply inadmissible and I hope that you will conduct this session more correctly in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16251	If you have read the article the MP gave the amendment to, then you will see that he was in the subject of the member himself, but as far as the amendments are concerned, I agree. That's why I warned him. Hence, it is a little trouble to make a strict division between what he discussed by article and amendment. He's the one who skillfully connected it. I agree that he extended the subject, but I don't see that there's been so much damage to the Rules of Procedure that he deserves to be interrupted. In that sense, I let him finish with all my interventions to get back on the subject. Do you think this deserves to be declared on Voting Day? (Radoslav Milovanovic, from the place: No. ) The word has been given by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, following the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16252	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have carefully read this amendment and some solutions are very interesting. I also read the government's explanation and realized that it depends not only on the government's goodwill, that it should be projected and budgeted, that it is one of the sources of funding the budget, and the others are its own revenues, but there are very interesting solutions here and the promoter defined how to finance the transport of passengers and goods, but also how to renew, we restore the existing abandoned infrastructure. So, I would like the government, or the Ministry, to take into account all this Mr. Stojanovic has made in some future reflections on any additions to the law or in some new law. We will not vote in favour of the amendment fully understanding the difficulties that, by adopting the amendments, would affect the entire law. I also realized that this was not exactly in line with European regulations. In the end, I want to say, no matter what infrastructure recovery is here, and so on, I'm afraid that these assets certainly exist, but that increases the price of fuel, diesel, gasoline. I think it's best that users of services, first of all, think about the economy, finance the development of railways, rebuilding infrastructure, and until we turn our sleeves and make some economic system and make some production, I'm afraid we won't be able to rebuild the infrastructure. So the poor citizens can't be taken as much as our infrastructure has been abandoned. I understand that there will be credit and with that I think there are interesting ideas in Mr. Stojanovic's amendment, but I would add to that that we all need to work together on growing production, that we have something to transport these tracks. When we have something to transport from our goods to those tracks, then by transporting our goods, foreign goods, our passengers and foreign passengers, we will be able to finance the railway infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16253	Thank you. National MP Zoran Angelkovic tabled an amendment proposing a change in the name of Section 5. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. That the line wants a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Stefan Miladanovic submitted an amendment to Articles 46, 100 and 101. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. That the line wants a word? No, I don't. ) The 46th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16254	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the second amendment of the SVM refers to Article 46. The bill, which speaks of the National Railway Infrastructure Programme. The bill sets out elements of the future national railway programmes, which will be passed over a period of five years, and the government will submit a report once a year on the implementation of the National Programme. It's one newspaper and it's certainly commendable. The first part of our amendment refers to the addition of a new element that, according to us, the National Programme of Railway Infrastructure would have to contain, which is the definition of a public-private partnership model. I don't think it's a good thing the Government of the Republic of Serbia didn't accept this amendment, because we think it would be celibate that the National Programme of the Republic of Serbia's railway infrastructure also contains a definition of the public-private partnership model. The Government's view states that the public-private partnership is regulated by another law, the Law on Public-private Partnership and concessions. It is, of course, true, but we think that a public-private partnership related to rail traffic and railway infrastructure should be regulated more in detail by a special system law, which is the Law on Railways. We believe that the reasons leading to the establishment of a public-private partnership in the area of rail infrastructure are the inefficientness of the public undertaking in providing public services, the obsolescence of equipment and infrastructure which the public sector is unable to restore and the insufficient scope and quality of public services in the area of transport of passengers and goods, resulting in difficult mobility of the population and slow economic development. We have also discussed this in principle debate today regarding our first amendment, about the possibility of transferring the right to manage units of local self-government and AP Vojvodina in parts of the railway infrastructure of the Republic of Serbia. What makes us think that the National Railway Infrastructure Programme should also include an element relating to the definition of the public-private partnership model? Because, despite the significant interest of the private sector in investment in railway infrastructure in recent years, the realisation of concrete projects is not due to the lack of a public-private partnership model, based on which the private partner would know exactly what he was getting for the funds invested. If the legislator advocates liberalisation, the gradual liberalisation of the rail-related market and in the Republic of Serbia, then we believe that a more detailed model of public-private partnership should be regulated, and this could be done as we have suggested, i.e. in a way that this is an element of the National Railway Infrastructure Programme. I therefore urge Mr. Minister to reconsider the possibility of accepting this proposal. The second part of the same amendment to Article 46 refers to another position, but also to the National Programme for the Development of Railway Infrastructure. We have suggested that parts of the National Programme relating to railway infrastructure in AP territory, the government determines in co-operation with the competent authorities of the AP. I suggest you pay attention to this term or to these words "in co-operation with the competent authorities of the AP". There were other considerations that this was done with the AP's consent or on the AP's proposal. That would be legally impossible, but I think co-operation should exist, and I've talked a lot about it today, between republican and regional organs. Talks should exist and I don't think anyone would mind parts of the National Programme, which relate to infrastructure in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, being defined in co-operation with the competent authorities of the AP Vojvodina. The government of the Republic of Serbia has stated in its opinion on our amendment that rail infrastructure is a comprehensive system. That absolutely nobody slows it down. I've already underlined it several times, and the government has also stated that there will be no particularly processed parts of the railway infrastructure in the AP territory. We didn't think there would be a chapter on part of the infrastructure in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, but it certainly will contain, we hope and are certain, that national programme and parts related to the AP Vojvodina and related to that part of the National Programme. It would be good to define it in collaboration with the competent authorities of the AP Vojvodina. Even so, you have stated in your opinion that when this programme is drawn up, things will be consulted by nature and by the authorities of the AP. If that's the case, then I don't know, I really don't understand why you didn't accept this amendment. If you have accepted 20 and some amendments from MPs, which is certainly good, so how can I tell you, it is a little strange that not one of the solutions proposed by the SVM was acceptable to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but I still hope, especially after the Minister's discussion that they, that you will consider once again by the end of tomorrow, so maybe we will get lucky and adopt both of our amendments. That's what I'm calling for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16255	The word has Minister Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16256	Thank you very much, President. This fifth, as I say, member of this member is quite clear and he is undeniable. This sixth you were just talking about was a little bit controversial. The government is in co-operation with the competent authorities on the AP. Let's spend the night. I hope that's clearer, too, so we'll adopt him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16257	National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together to the 46th amendment. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16258	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, I will address with the same hope as Mr. Pastor. We're the only ones with 17 adoptions, so think about it. Above Article 45, the title is – construction, reconstruction and modernisation of railway infrastructure and you in article 46, you say – that the Government submits to the National Assembly a yearly report on the implementation of the national programme. It's very normal and it's okay. I think it is good to create a national programme and it is very important because it includes the existing characteristics of our railway infrastructure, building strategy, reconstruction, modernisation, maintenance of railway infrastructure, development components on building new capacities, infrastructure of particular importance, defining the structure, dynamics of realisation, priorities, heights and sources of financial resources. I don't know why I'm thinking of the Valjevo-Losnica railroad here, but you'll know for a fact why I thought of that. Given the depravity of the infrastructure, given the surgical determination of what will be built, where it will be built, since we do not know from which funds will be built and which sources of funding, we do not know what our priorities are, we are still discussing it, we think it is very good that the infrastructure manager submits twice a year a report to the government. Why? I'm afraid that a year has passed very quickly and that the government can intervene after half a year and fix something, add something, perform some reconstruction, and after a year when the possibility of building something in a season is complete, then it has no right to do so anymore. It seems to me that this amendment of ours is very meaningful. The government must know, precisely because the infrastructure is in a terrible bad state, how the realisation of the national programme moves and has to be notified much more than once a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16259	The word has Minister Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16260	We accept Mrs Vojić Markovic, but we are not clear about the Valjevo-Loznica railway. Please, what did you mean by that? That the railroad doesn't need it or what?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16261	I was going to say that the railroad is needed without knowing if it's going to be built right now. That's the information on the media. It is not known from which means to be built, and when will it be built, so would we like to know, we from Valjev?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16262	May I have a moment, Mr. President? So, the construction of the Valjevo-Losnica railroad. I've been on a three-year-old Russian loan deal every time I've been here, I've been giving information about how these jobs are going. Let me immediately point out that the Russian representatives were very clear, their idea projects are the rank of our main projects, and we didn't have the main projects for everything we wanted to share with the Russians. We wanted to give the railroad for two reasons. First, because Serbia's railway today absolutely in Russian partners can find exactly the same status and equipment, wagons and locomotives that have Western countries. Others, because the facilities we have offered the Russians are just the objects that have started to build and are difficult to find financing in European banks and the World Bank. That's the point. So out of 800 million, we've listed five projects. Of course Corridor 10 has always been a priority, but for Corridor 10 we haven't had projects, we don't have them today, and for the Valjevo-Loznica track we have. I don't need to comment on the significance of that railroad. I don't think he's completely clear, so there's no last intention. If we can secure the projects by the time we sign a contract on the implementation of the projects on Corridor 10 from the Russian loan, we'll do it. If not, we'll work the Valjevo-Losnica railroad. After that, we will provide safe resources and implement the project of the Valjevo-Loznica railway. So, the Valjevo-Losnica railroad will certainly be built. Media misunderstandings have been eliminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16263	Thank you. National MP Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 51st amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 51 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to the 52nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16264	Thank you. This amendment concerns Article 52. It is said that railway infrastructure must be maintained in a state that provides safe and smooth rail traffic, etc. That's two attitudes. Of course, in order to round this legislative framework at all, when it comes to railways, we expect that we will soon win in the assembly procedure and that safety law in the railways, I think it is also called interoperability, not only about safety. I have to admit, I'm a little surprised you couldn't finish that law by now. I know he wrote himself at a time when this law was first in the congregation procedure. It's possible you've changed something. It would be good if these two laws went together. When it comes to this amendment, in paragraph 2, it is the maintenance of railway infrastructure in a state that provides safe and smooth rail traffic, you say in that position – to do so, constant controls and occasional checks must be carried out, as well as the removal of identified deficiencies. This kind of cuts off with each other, because if you keep your eyes on each other, you keep your eyes on each other. How permanent it will be and how often there will be these controls or checks, for which you probably have some standards and what permanent surveillance means. Then, after that, he says, constant monitoring and periodic examinations are being carried out. That constant surveillance is being carried out through occasional checks, I guess. This doesn't agree with each other. Instead of "temporary checks", we suggest that you add "functional examination". You replied to me that it was not in the spirit of railway terminology. I'm sorry I made a mistake in the spirit of railway terminology, but I don't think I was wrong about the spirit when it comes to taking care of the safety of rail traffic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16265	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16266	In the spirit of this, we accept that proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16267	As the minister leaves, I think this session will end faster than I expected. National MP Dejan Radenkovic submitted to the 56th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Ivan Andric, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta together submitted to the 62th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dejan Radenkovic submitted to the 64th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 66th Amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Mirna Kosanovic and Dr Ivan Bauer submitted to the 69th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs Donka Banovic and Gorica Gajic together submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16268	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, the honourable representatives of the government, as you can see, the DSS, our parliamentary group, has submitted 21 amendments, which shows that it has been very seriously addressed by this draft law on railways, and how well we explain the amendments, here you have heard that by the end of this session you will probably accept a few more DSS amendments, so I thank you in advance. Of these 21 amendments, as the DSS has submitted, seven amendments concern the problem of physical accessibility by means of means of transport. I have already said that this is our obligation to the Convention that we ratified, in relation to the rights of persons with disabilities, and that is especially our obligation, because just a few weeks ago we adopted the Law on the Employment of Persons with Disabilities, where I hope that, if that law comes to life, we will include them in the field of law, in the field of work and in all the social spheres of our lives. How will we allow them to reach their jobs if we do not allow them a smooth and safe access to traffic, especially public transport, including road and rail traffic? We are among these seven amendments that we have submitted, and we thank you for accepting three and for having had enough hearing and understanding for these problems of persons with disabilities. To return to Article 72, which was the subject of our amendment. Article 72 of the Regulation regulates the concept of order of driving, and says in paragraph 2, the driving order, i.e. changing and supplementing the public transport order of passengers, shall be published in means of public information, shall be pointed out in visible places, in station buildings and shall be published and published in another normal manner, no later than 20 days before the entry into force. The Democratic Party of Serbia is proposing to add attitude 3 - the order of driving under Article 2 - must be accessible to persons with disabilities in accessible formats. For example, comparisons, in countries that have regulated this problem of accessibility to disabled persons, several of these formats are, above all, for impaired persons, stronger press, bigger letters on the opposite surface, for blind people it is Braje’s letter or even electronic form – CD, that a person with disabilities can take home and have insight into the order of driving. You refused this amendment, you did not accept, on the grounds that the Railways Directorate is competent to bring form and content of the driving order. Believe me, if we, by this law, don't make a commitment, I'm afraid the Railways Directorate will not respect the needs of persons with disabilities, that in special formats that are accessible to them and bring such a order of driving. Please, Mr. Minister, think about it. That doesn't require any expense. I have information that the railways have already introduced some form of driving order in that accessible form, but it's not systemically solved, it's not legally settled. It's an ad hoc solution. Please reconsider that when it comes to driving, we adapt it to people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16269	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16270	You said it right. We'll think about it by tomorrow, because it's in the jurisdiction of the Railways Directorate. I'll check with them, and if I'm not convinced they'll do it, we'll do it for sure. I completely agree with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16271	National MP Gorica Gajic submitted the amendment to article 87. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16272	I certainly want a word. This is one of the three amendments that have been accepted, which concerns the accessibility of the rail traffic of persons with disabilities. For the sake of the public, and for the very people we stand for here, I will read the essence of the amendment that has been accepted. Article 87 provides that all specific provisions in the public transport obligation contract are regulated, and point 6 states that the provisions are governed by the quality requirements if the competent authority requires the railway undertaking to comply with certain quality requirements in accordance with the law. We propose an amendment to add after the word "quality requirements" the words "including providing affordable transport for disabled passengers". It's a good thing this amendment was accepted. You have once again shown understanding and hearing about the problem of persons with disabilities, so we thank you, in this case, on behalf of the DSS Parliament Club, and certainly most of all on behalf of persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16273	That really means a lot to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16274	Member of the 87th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, submitted an amendment that was added after article 91. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. National MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16275	Thank you. Here we propose adding a new member who would be a member of 92 and after Article 91. Otherwise the title above article 91 is - status and business of the Railway Directorate. Otherwise, these members are within the scope of Chapter 4. What we have noticed in this bill is that the details of all the businesses and areas he is doing or will be carried out by the Railways Directorate, which is very good. However, what is missing is that there is not a word about who will be at the head of this Directorate, although it is understood by the name, or about who and how and on what period that future director is elected. Our amendment, i.e. the whole member would read – the director of the Directorate's management. That's understood. The next position is – the director of the government is elected for a period of four years, based on a public competition. The third position would be – candidates for directors must have high technical expertise and at least five years of rail work experience. We think you should have accepted this amendment and made this member an integral part of the law. Now the assistant explains to you why he was not accepted, because you normally asked why this amendment was not accepted. I got that explanation. Apparently, this proposal is in line with the Law on State Administration, which prescribes the management and the way in which the Director of the Railways Directorate is appointed as a special organisation. Let me believe that there's this problem and that it's going to go against the law, but I'd rather say that the proposer once again predicted that there's no telling what period the director's chosen, nor is there a commitment -- what is the profession. Today there were many words about it – expertise, experience, whether expertise and experience, or both, etc. We heard then from colleagues from SNS, Mr Stojanovic, who talked about some bad personnel structure and constantly changing the same people. So it wasn't me saying it. It was Mr. Stojanovic. I don't see a problem in this law stating which professions must be the director, so if anything, and protection of the railway against mishandling. I'll remind you that we recently had a law on changes and additions to the Law on Inland Waters. You weren't present as Minister, he was Mr. Ilic, so you completely abolished the Water Directorate by that law, you know? Minister Ilic cited the reasons that the directorate was a non-domestic business, that it was rather ugly to listen to, and that is something that you cannot check. So you've single-handedly abolished a directive, and now you're defending your assistant by not being able to by law because it's a special organization, and that special organization we've abolished with one member. I think it's very good to stand here, if nothing else, which professions should be the director.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16276	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16277	Since Mrs. Donka explained this whole amendment, just a few things to explain. So, within the government as authorities, there is a directive and it is the responsibility of the Prime Minister. There's an Agency, too. And inside the ministries there are administrations. The administrations are in charge of the ministries. Directorate, I don't know why Velimir Ilic explained it, he was probably there for me at the time, or I wasn't there, but the Water Directorate was lifted. Simply as management, she entered the Ministry and now "Plov Put", that's what it's called, the same jobs within the ministry. We've estimated that it's simpler, better and faster for the realisation of the jobs that "Plov Put" does. Otherwise, it is a very good and organized organization of 100 people, experts, etc. The agencies have their own administrative authorities. So, the administrations that are elected, you know how it goes, the staff board picks them, and the directors are elected in the competitions. Directorates, which are under the cabinet of the Prime Minister, are also going to the competition. This director of the department was elected a few years ago and he went to the competition. Just one more piece of information, I can see the media doesn't understand that, either. I read several times in the media, and I was attacked by the fact that I received my assistants as I please. No, I don't. Right now, we're taking assistants to jobs, and they're all going to competitions, too. So no one in the ministries will be one of those top officials who won't pass the competition check. Just so we know when we're talking about these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16278	The word is Mrs. Banovic. You have another minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16279	I'm sorry, maybe I didn't exactly express...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16280	Excuse me, is this a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16281	Yeah, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16282	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16283	I know "Plov Put" isn't cut off as such, but it's been abolished as a special organization, and it's become, it's entered, and it's an integral part of the ministry. I know that. I don't know what it's called, but it's probably part of a sector within the ministry. So what we can conclude is that sometimes we have very bad experience with these special organizations. What will be our experience with this organization, or as it already has this special organisation status, maybe this was also supposed to be part of the transport ministry's sector. In doing so, there are no basic criteria here or in the law, which is not good, but good.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16284	Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16285	Railway Directorate as a regulatory body in Croatia, I think we said that last time, there are even two such directives. We've put all of this on three of the assignments she's got, and we've put it in one direction. It used to be a community of Yugoslav railways, and now it's the Railway Directorate. No, she has 35 to 40 workers. She's always had them and won't have them anymore. Therefore, it is a regulatory body, with clear goals and signs to work. That's what we said last time, and that's what the law says. Thank you very much. I said the same thing before, the director is elected after the competition for five years.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16286	The amendment was submitted to Article 92 of the amendment by MP Gorica Gajic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 91st Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 93rd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Gorica Gajic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 94 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Petar Škundric. The Government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Parliamentarians Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted to the amendment of the 94th. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16287	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Directorate is a regulatory body and has a lot of obligations, you said yourself that you had given her three kinds of jobs. One of these obligations is recorded in Article 94, that is to regulate the safety of rail traffic. I think it's quite well worked out here at eight points that all obligations in the field of traffic security are given to the Directorate, entrusted to the Directorate. But what I don't see, so I think it's necessary to enter, it's to keep track of all emergency situations in railway traffic. We're witnessing, a few days ago she was one of those emergency situations. So, there are them. It's very important that we know what it is to be an emergency in rail traffic, it's very important that we have records of them and I don't see what would interfere with all these jobs, with all these jobs that you've assigned the Directorate to have one of these records, because it can be very rationally used. When we have an overview of what, how and why it happens, how we react at that moment, it can be an incentive to react better next time. Because, as we all know, we don't lie, we often react completely inadequately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16288	The word has Minister Milutin Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16289	Roger that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16290	You've been very convincing. On Article 104 of the amendment, MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dejan Radenkovic submitted to Article 107 of the amendment. The Government and the Resolution Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Ivan Andric, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta together submitted to the 110th amendment. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16291	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 110. The draft law refers to the deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts. The proposal for this law provides that, within 24 months of the entry into force of this law, all the necessary rules are to be laid down by the railway law proposal. Our amendment shortens this deadline from 24 months to three months for two basic reasons. The first reason is because we think it's a little too big for that 24-month deadline. Why do we think it's too big? Because this law entered the congregation procedure by emergency procedure. If something has entered the emergency procedure and the scheduled deadlines for the sublaw are 24 months, I think it's inconclusive. The second reason is that in the previous session of the Serbian Parliament, we had this law almost 99% of the provisions of the same law and it was a year and a half ago. Back then, this railroad law was the same as an emergency procedure. Well, I just don't understand what's going on or isn't happening in this inter-periode, so we can't do or prepare these sub-legal acts. Another important political issue, when we talk about sub-legislative acts, is what this Serbian government, i.e. the ministries, do when it is necessary to comply with the law on the deadlines of those areas adopted by the Assembly, this meeting of the Serbian Parliament. Mr. Minister, in December, the Law on Public Enterprises entered into force. The law on public enterprises, among other things, applies to railways. The law on public enterprises provides that the government, as the founder, will agree to a founding act of public enterprises with the new Law on Public Enterprises. Did you agree to any of the founding acts of a public enterprise in your area? Has the founding act "The Railway of Serbia" been agreed with the new Company Act. Under the Law on Public Enterprises, Article 52, is among other things the obligation of a public undertaking to submit three months' reports on its work to the competent ministry and the Ministry of Finance. Did you, as a ministry, also receive a report from public enterprises on your work for the previous three months? In this case, the railway of Serbia is specifically thought of. Has the Railways of Serbia, as a budget user, done in accordance with Article 50 of the rationalisation measure to reduce the level of subsidies they receive from the budget in the coming period. It is an obligation under the Law on Public Enterprises, but it is an obligation made on itself and by the Government of Serbia, and thus by certain public enterprises, in line with the fiscal strategy you adopted at the cabinet session, I think, at the end of November 2012. I think it is essentially a political issue -- which is a force that makes it impossible for the Serbian government to respect the deadlines foreseen by law, while asking Serbian citizens to abide by the law of the scheduled deadlines in any form? Why aren't the ministries meeting those obligations? Why doesn't the Serbian government do that? That's why in LDP, when we talk about deadlines for sublegal acts, we see from the experience of this government that it's a fluid category. There's something written, so it doesn't matter. We won't respect it. Why won't we respect it? Because there are no criminal provisions that will allow him to sanction anyone, whether in the ministry or in the government itself, for not fulfilling those obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16292	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16293	Thank you, Mr. Kenan. He's absolutely right. I suggest that the deadline we've given for 24 months be reduced, but at least for six months. Why? My experience, you know that I am a man who reacts faster than other people, says that in the government one document, I will give an example, both documents related to the Public Enterprise Roads of Serbia and A.D. Railways are now in line with the government today. That means all the ministries have agreed. That takes four months, unfortunately. With all the effort, believe me, it takes four months. We have now adopted a founding act, and from that moment on dates can be numbered when we choose supervisory authorities, boards of directors and directors-generals. So I ask that the deadline for these acts you've been talking about now be reduced from 24 to six months. I'll try... (Zoran Angelkovic, from the place: How technically? That's nice. It all depends on the ministry's work. (Zoran Angelkovic, from place: No amendments. ) These are internal documents in the ministries. Those documents that go to the alignment, there's a lot of trouble. There must often be intervention by both the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister. I'm asking it to be six months. Your amendment is accepted and you realize that's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16294	I just have to technically explain. The amendment submitted by a group of MPs predicts that the regulations are passed within three months. So if you accept their amendment, it'll be three months. We, at this point, cannot say that six months is because there is no amendment that predicts that it is six months. At this point, it's impossible to change that. If you accept the amendment, it's three months. If you don't accept it, then it's the deadline that's set in the text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16295	We accept an amendment of three months.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16296	The minister has accepted the amendment. MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16297	Your Honor, Mr. President, I must congratulate you on your courage. You were known as Minister before the deadline. I've just prepared the discussion so that I can criticize you, because this is not how we can play the law. It's a flat-rate, your will, right now good and well-intentioned, to give a little acceleration to this government. I'm just going to remind you, what the LDP suggested, as explained by distinguished colleague Kenan Hajdarevic, is a very important question that we have already discussed several times in this session. So it is not a question – will you bring the laws, will you write them down, write them down, what will you do with them? The most important question is – will these laws be implemented in practice? That's where your political action in us arouses skepticism and suspicion. It's a good thing you accepted it for three months. There is no business possibility, that's explained to you by the president of the National Assembly, in six months. I'm just gonna warn you about a few things. The Law on Public Enterprises, the methods of my colleagues and colleagues, in addition to being MPs, we are mostly committees, some of us, very little local self-government has agreed these public enterprises laws with its divisions. You still have in some municipalities and cities boards of public enterprises. We still have the old law, and we don't have law enforcement in practice. So what my esteemed colleague Srdjan Mikovic was talking about yesterday, it is not only necessary to pass the law and publish it in the Official Messenger, the law must live in practice, to be implemented. Members of the LDP, DSS and I, I am absolutely confident of that, will check how your promise is realized, without intent on being maligned or maliced. If you want something, buddy, two fingers, if you have anything to say. If you don't, go to the farm. So, we'll keep an eye on whether your promise is true. If it is not fulfilled, don't forget that you may already be in the flesh and two, three, coming back to the Assembly and Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic and I will remind you of your promise. But let it not be. We have promised, and we cannot, they will not work, they do not like to work. I'm absolutely sure you'll be able to. When you could get them to finish the bridge in winter three months before the deadline, you'd probably be able to get them to sublegal act of preparation before the deadline. Be careful what you promised, the law was passed on the day when the Assembly votes for it to the majority of the MPs, and it will live in practice the moment it starts to apply and when the sublaws are prepared. Don't let it be like some parts of the highway that others were doing, and not you -- it's not over, the machine broke down, it's not about the bagger, it's about the rollers, it's about the workers. We'll make sure you keep this promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16298	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16299	Since I suppose this is my final word, first of all to thank all MPs for their truly extraordinary cooperation. I'm undermining again, whenever I come here, I always learn a lot, no matter what I belong to, except my colleagues from PUPS, to the oldest in this assembly here. I remind Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, since he knows how we did, whenever you were looking for something in Kruševec, did you go with me, was it finished? Was there a problem? It was. Are they solved? They did. At least now the bureaucracy of the administration can stop us. That's what I'm going to try now, in this term or in the end, it doesn't matter, to fulfill. So don't doubt me, Mr. Milivoevich. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16300	National MP Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16301	Thank you. On the occasion of the amendment. I hold you by the word that you keep at least a promise, that this was your final word, "what a demonstration", and I call on all the serious MPs to think well and that, compared to what has been heard today, what is realistically possible, and what is not, since it is easy to say, whether you are a position or an opposition, that you will control someone even though you were unable to control yourself or to promise on behalf of the ministry, although it is complicated that the minister in the name of the ministry promises something that is procedurally complicated. I call on all responsible MPs not to vote in favour of this amendment in the voting day, because it is not realistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-16-0.u16302	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We'll continue work Monday at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 89 MPs present in the hall, i.e. that there are at least 84 MPs present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the representative of professor Slavica Djukić Dejanović, the Minister of Health, I have also called for the meetings to be attended by Slavka Lakicevic, assistant health minister and Radmila Ivanek, special adviser to the Minister of Health. We continue to work and move on to a search in detail of the 2nd item of the agenda - a bill on patients' rights. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
